ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u2	The next item is the debate on the government statement. The next item is the discussion of the Government's statement. I call Mrs Laurette Onkelinx. Mrs Laurette Onkelinx has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u3	Mr. President, there is no Prime Minister. Without Prime Minister, it is difficult to (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u4	You're absolutely right. We are waiting for the Prime Minister. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u5	Colleagues and members of the government, I would like to agree with you that we are trying to stick to the time and that if someone is delayed, he will let us know, that is a respectful way of dealing with each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I have the firm conviction that our country is entering a new zone of turbulence. The history of Belgium is certainly not a long, quiet river; it has been shaken by relations of power and domination such as to leave scars on the skin. In recent years, in the face of nationalist revanchards, we have developed French- and Dutch-speaking responses to give this country a new chance, to appease and secure it. With this government, I am convinced that you are simply reversing. Why, Prime Minister, why did you offer the country's keys to nationalists? Together, we had made it impossible for a government to focus on institutional change. The list of articles of the Constitution to be revised had been designed for that reason. Eyes in the eyes, facing the population, during the election campaign, knowing that the future government would be only socio-economic, you said you would never go with the N-VA. No one had forced you to say it, no one had forced you to say it. It was you who put your honour and commitment to it, both in the South and in the North of the country. Where is this honor? Where is the fulfilment of commitments? Where is the mere respect for the word given? Mr Prime Minister, you have also distilled the Community poison in the very imbalance in the composition of your government. Let's judge! This government will receive the confidence of three times as many Dutch-speaking MPs as French-speaking MPs. In addition, the majority of nationalists alone weigh more than all Francophones. I will tell you that our concern is not offset by the presence of one of their own at the head of this team. Whatever your qualities, Prime Minister, you will always be considered by a large part of the population as the Prime Minister who was chosen by the Flemish parties of the majority. As a result, we find it difficult to see your appointment as a form of compensation. On the contrary, we feel that it illustrates our weakness today. We Francophones no longer choose ourselves those who speak on our behalf! And that is a slap; and even more, a contempt for Francophones. Of course, we do not question the fact that this government is constituted in accordance with the rules of democracy. But there is the law and the spirit of the law. Take parity within the Council of Ministers, which was introduced in 1970. Why this parity when there is the rule of consensus? Why, if it is not to allow each of the communities to be broadly represented in their choices, in their values, in their priorities? MR is 25% of Francophone representativeness. It is an easy prey that can be thrown away under the circumstances. It seems to me that through this, you have flouted one of the great compromises of history. Finally, the imbalance also arises in the distribution of departmental positions. No wonder a N-VA minister wants the interior. It is always like this that the takeover of power of the nationalists, whether left or right, begins. But then you gave the nationalists the army, the police, the civil service, the security of the state. It's cold in the back. Especially since we've seen him the last few days, the last few hours, the personality of some of your ministers is worrying. Every day, the masks fall a little more. Monday, for Jan Jambon, your Deputy Prime Minister, the collaborators had their reasons. One can understand, so one can explain that Belgians have made common cause with the Nazis. Thinking of correcting the shot, he sinks: collaboration, he says, is a historical mistake. A mistake. A mistake, like everyone makes mistakes. A simple mistake, which can be forgiven. For me, Deputy Prime Minister, collaboration is not a mistake. It's a ignominy! An absolute shame, for it is a shame to take action and cause for those who are responsible for the Holocaust and have trampled on all our values. Prime Minister, it is this man who is given the Interior! On Tuesday, Mr. Franken's presence was heard at a small fiesta held on the occasion of the anniversary of a well-known collaborator, an elder of the Eastern Front, a leader of a private nationalist militia. In this way, the noise of boots is reason in the country's government. And it is terrifying that it is this one, clearly homophobic in addition, who has been entrusted with the Asylum and Migration. Wednesday, new revelations published in the newspapers of the Sudpresse group still concerning Mr Francken: your Secretary of State, prominent figure of the N-VA sent, among others to Mrs Liesbeth Homans, in July 2007 and in June 2008, several emails in his capacity as member and leader of the Vlaams Nationaal Verbond (VNV) in which he called for a meeting to define the main lines of management and, in particular, of the end, of Belgium. He threatens members who dare to speak with a bullet. I hardly dare to repeat his words as shameful as they are. He threatens them one night with a homosexual. These, Prime Minister, are the people you partnered with. Never, contrary to what she said, did the N-VA intend to play the federal game. From the beginning, his goal remains unchanged. True to her DNA, she intends to pursue the objective that she has always set herself in her statutes: to unblock our country. His participation in power is intended to enable him to do so. On the other hand, recent statements, recent events, Mr. Francken's verb tend to show that most of the leaders of this party are far from sharing our values. You were right, Prime Minister, when you thought that there were racist hints at home. Put your government in order! Don't shut up! For when such symbols are at stake, silence is a renunciation, a fault. These people are simply not worthy of the high responsibilities that you have assigned to them. I expect clear actions from you to keep our democracy intact. I expect you to ask them to resign. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another step backwards reflected in the composition of the government: the place of women. They are not numerous in your team, but let us admit from the outset that this is not the only government so constituted. However, for the past 15 years, women have been represented in the Kern, i.e. at the heart of the government system. Here, I don't see any women from the North, the Centre or the South who are vice-premier. It shockes me. Here too, Prime Minister, you bear the responsibility. Mr Juncker can be criticized very much, but he has been able to punch his fist on the table so that the women are massively present with interesting responsibilities in his Commission; here you have obviously had no influence beyond your group. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u7	That's what I just said, but you didn't listen to me! There is no hindsight, while here we have some hindsight. Indeed, never in 15 years, Kern has been unisex; you are inaugurating. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not an excited community and, as a socialist, the social issue is at the heart of my concerns as well as those of my entire group. If we are going to refuse our confidence in this government, if we are going to denounce its policy, if we are going to fight its action by all the means offered by our rule of law, it is not only because its composition is weak, it is because its political plan is too. It's an unfair and inconceivable political project. It will hit all the workers of this country with full force. It doesn't matter whether they speak French, Dutch or German, these workers will all be the victims of the expected social regression. It's to defend them all that we're going to fight. We are convinced that the workers of our country will find themselves in resistance to this government. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in order to ask for confidence, the majority have adopted churchillian accents. The situation is serious. The competitiveness of companies, the sustainability of our social system, all the indicators are negative, and we should urgently mobilize to avoid the collapse of Belgium, to which we would be condemned by inaction. The majority is in the role of a captain, ready to do anything to avoid the shipwreck of his ship and who calls for the lucidity of the passengers. They must give up their outdated privileges to ensure collective success and bring the ship back to port. This dramatization is obviously not innocent. In fact, this majority intends to take extremely harsh measures against workers and it is essential for it to be able to justify these severe measures in the name of the general interest. Is this posture sincere? Is she credible? I'd say, neither. Indeed, when we look at the measures proposed in this agreement, we are first struck by how much this catalogue of proposals resembles the classical right-wing programme. There is nothing new or surprising. It is the same logic, not to say the same discourse, as that of Margaret Thatcher or Jean Gol in the 1980s: the social system always costs too much. Labour law is still too restrictive. Public services are still obstacles to progress. Reading these platitudes gives us the impression that the software on the right is still running on an old Atari or even a Commodore 64. There is nothing wrong with staying constant in time, and the rightists, whether Catholic, liberal or nationalist, may eventually be proud of being faithful to themselves, but in this case they cannot pretend that it is the financial crisis or the ageing of the population that justifies the measures they proposed before yesterday. The project is an ideological project. It's not an insult, it's not even a criticism. It's just a fact. This concrete examination of the proposed measures concludes with convincing us of the hypocrisy of this dramatization, I would say of the dishonesty of this posture. Indeed, if the ship were so bad, there is no doubt that a conscientious captain would be willing to do anything, careful to do everything to save it; in particular, he would ask everyone to make the maximum effort, not only to the sailors, not only to the passengers who stay in the 2nd and 3rd classes - but to everyone. What do we see here? What strikes as we go through the pages of the text? Workers must make a great deal of effort, whether they are active, unemployed or pensioners. They have to tighten their belts, give up their rights, work more to earn less. The bosses and the rich, on the other hand, nothing! On the contrary, for them, we go back to some of the past's efforts and give them little gifts. This sometimes caricatural imbalance, sometimes – I must say – disgusting, enlightens us on the sincerity of the general mobilization to which we are called. Your 'thing', I would say, is the patriotism of abuse: to abuse the workers who will see their purchasing power diminish with the index jump, to abuse the officials who will have to work longer but whose pension will fall despite everything, to abuse the women who have returned to part-time work and whose allowances will be cut off. There are in fact no other causes here to save than the privileges of the forts. This is your goal; it is your cause and you now have the opportunity to realize it. So, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, don't bother pretending! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is first and foremost the chapter on pensions, the reading of which was a shock. While all the parties of the majority, all of them, had assured during the campaign that we would not reach the legal retirement age, we learned, a few weeks after the election, that you actually wanted to raise it to 67. You can also take advantage of it to tighten career conditions. When asked about this paradox, you tell us about the courage to reform. Is it courage to lie? Is it courage to force exhausted workers to remain active beyond the age when they can reasonably perform their duties? Is it courage to force a 64-year-old teacher to take care of a class of 30 tumultuous marmots? Is it courage to ask a construction worker who started working at the age of 18 to climb a roof beyond 60? Is that courage? You're indecent! We are all aware that it is necessary to increase the actual length of the career. We worked on it under the former legislature, with measures that were not always easy to take. The PS programme proposed to go further, to improve continuing training, to work with employers to improve the working conditions of older workers, to supplement the long-term pension bonus with a specific and immediate tax bonus for older workers. We wanted to reform with the workers and not against them! You have not retained any of this. On the contrary, you dramatically limit the credit-time at the end of your career, including for hard jobs such as nurses, and you remove the pension bonus for some workers who made the choice to work up to age 65. For good students, this will be a loss of more than 150 euros per month. Again, workers are being attacked when nothing is being done to force employers to hire or retain those over 55 years of age in their businesses. And if nothing is done to force employers to keep these older workers, believe me, minister, the increase in the legal age of the pension will only transfer a burden from one branch of social security - pensions - to other branches such as disability or unemployment. Even economically, it makes no sense!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u8	Mr President, I hear Mrs Onkelinx about the pension chapter. Mrs Onkelinx, I note that you do not question the need to ensure that there are more assets in our country to ensure – and that is the purpose of the reform we are proposing – a financially sustainable and socially efficient system. That is what we want and that is what is reflected in this reform. So you're telling us that no one had asked for legal pension at 67. In fact, during this Parliament, we are not going to change the legal age of the pension. It will indeed remain at 65 years of age. In this Parliament, however, we are going to ensure that early pensions take place a little later. It is indeed the extension of a reform that was initiated by the previous government and that we are going to continue. We will not only apply in 2015 and 2016 the decisions that were taken by the previous government, but we will also continue this reform in 2017 and 2018, in order to gradually extend the period of activity - so that early retirement takes place at 62 and a half years, then at 63 years. In the future, it is appropriate – and this is why, from 2030 onwards, the statutory pension will be set at 67 – to keep a differential, otherwise it would make no sense, between the early pension taken at a later age, e.g. 63, and the legal pension age. Indeed, if the early pension becomes approximately the same as the statutory pension, the reform loses much of its meaning. It is therefore expected that by 2030 the statutory pension age will be raised to 67 years. You tend to make it look like it's going to affect all the people who will retire. That's intellectually dishonest, minister, because you know that's not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u9	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u10	Today, only 10% of people who retire do so at age 65. 10 per cent. The average retirement age is 59.5 years. Of course, not everyone is going, suddenly, to take his pension at 67! On the contrary, everyone will be able to manage this departure, with – it is true – new freedoms. We are indeed introducing a whole series of new freedoms into the possibility of taking up his pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u11	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u12	I just explained it, Mr. Laaouej. You're not listening! I have just explained that it is normal to maintain a differential between the age at which one can take his early pension and the age of the legal pension. As the age of early retirement is gradually rising, the age of the legal pension is bound to rise – in the future, in 2030. It's an unstoppable logic!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u13	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u14	I would like to add that the conditions of employment have not changed, contrary to what Mrs Onkelinx has said here. The career condition has not been increased in relation to the age of the statutory pension. We stayed in a 45-year career condition. Why did we do that? In order not to reduce the amount of pensions, of course. Because if, by increasing the age of the legal pension, you go back at the same time to the career condition – for example, at the age of 47, you speak then in 47th – then you necessarily arrive at a system that disadvantages those who will actually take their pension later. What we're going to do – and it's written in the Prime Minister's statement and in the government agreement – is to take into account, contrary to what you're suggesting, the length of careers and the persistence of certain professions, taking into account so-called "heavy" occupations. In such a way that those who, for example, start early in a very restrictive, very demanding occupation can take up their pension earlier than the legal age of the pension. Of course, there is no question of leaving everyone at work until the age of 67. On the other hand, there will be greater flexibility to manage one's career based on the visibility of what rights are created as one's profession moves forward. And it seems to me that it is a combination of the need to guarantee a well-functioning pension system in the future, i.e. to ensure that there are more employees, but also to give people greater freedom to manage their careers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, as you may know, we will also have thematic debates after the general debate. In doing so, we will discuss pensions, among other things. Mrs Onkelinx, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u16	Mr President, I understand that Mr Bacquelaine has been a little long. It's hard to justify. A few days before the constitution of the government, in a debate, he said that it should not be extended until 67 years! It's hard. We're rowing later, so we can get back. You didn't say a word about any of the questions I'm making about pensions. Why did you delete the bonus? Why didn't you do anything to make employers much more open to the involvement of older workers? Why play on pensions, not only by bonuses, but also by index jumping? To all this, Minister of Pensions, you do not answer! On the other hand, could I supplement by telling you that the proposed reforms for public service employees' pensions are no less surprising than raising the legal age? We are talking about reforms, which, listen to me, the cumulative effect could reduce the level of certain pensions by more than 25%. It's a real hold-up that the state is about to make on its own agents! What have they done so badly, these agents, so that we can go back to the commitments made to them in this way? How can dialogue and social dialogue be promoted and such proposals put on the table? In terms of unemployment, the most emblematic measure is probably this bizarre concept of compulsory service to the community. Your project in this area is not very clear. We won't know when the time comes. But what is very clear is that you are proposing, in a way, to relaunch the FTAs. But now, the unemployed who would be activated on a part-time basis within these employment agencies would no longer have any pay or status! And that would punish anyone who refused to work free of charge. Unpaid work would thus become a suitable job. Let no one be wrong about this: it concerns the unemployed today, but the very notion of work and employment is thus frontally attacked. The income guarantee allowance measure is less original, but no less dangerous. Substantial reductions in aid to beneficiaries, often women such as those working in large-scale distribution, could bring many households into poverty, although they did not understand the real value of the measure. Finally, the link to well-being: the text seems somewhat tarabiscote to me. Mr Verherstraeten, if I may, I will ask you if it was not written by a CD&V negotiator. First, it is proud to announce that the envelope will be restored to 100%, i.e. that the legislation passed on the initiative of the PS and sp.a. at the end of the last legislature will be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u17	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u18	Prime Minister, you don't know your file! No, because the government elders will tell you that at the end of the legislature, in compensation for further cost reductions, the envelope has been restored to 100%.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u19	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u20	Oh, yes! You will ask your vice-first, for example, Mr Reynders: he was sitting around the table. I'm going on. First of all, we say, "We're going to enforce the law." That's all that'd be missing! A little below, it is indicated that the family allowances will be neutralized for the purposes of calculating them. This amounts to cutting the envelope by 15 to 20 per cent. I imagine we will be told that it is certainly 100%, but of what remains!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u21	Mrs Onkelinx, you know that the welfare envelope was paid out at 60% during the Di Rupo administration. As you know, under the Di Rupo government, we have jointly carried out a sixth state reform which makes family allowances a matter for the Länder. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u22	Indeed, in a very good way. You know that this government will carry out that sixth state reform loyally, including the transfer of child benefit. This means that this will no longer be the federal government's share in the set-off. That's normal. However, unlike the previous legislature, where PS and sp.a were part of the government and where only 60% of the wealth envelope was paid out, we will pay 100 percent for the welfare envelope, for the strengthening of benefits and pensions. That is what we will do in this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u23	All this confirms that it was you who clearly wrote this part of the text. Yes, of course, together, we decided, as part of our general efforts to achieve budgetary balance, in the first part of this government, to reduce the envelope to 60%. But, Mr. Former Prime Minister, you will remember that, in the competitiveness pact that we decided at the end of the legislature, as compensation for further reductions in social contributions, we had stated that the envelope should be 100%. In fact, it is in the budget path and therefore, contrary to what the Prime Minister has told us, this obviously does not compensate for the jump in the index on which I will return. Ladies and gentlemen, no one would understand that I do not mention for a moment Health, which is the gold of our country. Our system of care is particularly efficient, thanks to professionals, of course, but also thanks to the standards, projects, funding that we have decided, year after year, together. In this regard, I would like to point out that your government program is very strong in the continuity of previous legislatures. You are about to reap the fruits of what was previously conceived: eHealth roadmap, unmet medical needs, reform of hospital funding, attractiveness plan for nurses, cadastre for care providers. Of course, I am happy and cannot help but take it as a tribute to the work done. What worries me is what you're not saying. Maybe you'll reassure me with the numbers? I'm not asking for any better. Things aren't clear about the savings you're going to make. Despite the denials of each other, these savings indicate that it is only necessary to adapt the budget to the growth of expenditure. There will be savings! How could it be otherwise when the real growth in spending over the last ten years has been 3%? If I am not mistaken, and I hope that it is not that figure that is being used, you are about to reduce the standard by around 1.5%, which is also based on expenditure that already has savings. According to the rumour, there would be 346 million euros in 2015 but with the 1.5% standard, this will force health care to make 1.5 billion euros of structural savings by 2019. Unlike the butterfly government agreement, there is no guarantee in your agreement that this $1.5 billion will not be taken into the patient's pocket. Prime Minister, I therefore look forward to a clear explanation of this! Vigilance will be complete to maintain a high quality care system! As far as health is concerned, I know that there is still much work to be done. I'm not here to say that your whole program is bad. I would say, for example, that I appreciate your willingness to extend the ban on two-bed supplements in the day hospital. It seems to me that this is a brave choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u24	Mr President, I do not wish to interrupt Mrs Onkelinx speaking positively about the coalition agreement. Continue immediately with all the benefits in terms of health care from the coalition agreement, Mrs Onkelinx. I would just like to comment on the growth standard in health care and social security. It is quite right that health care measures have been taken in recent years to keep the growth standard under control. You have done so in recent years, and you have done so well. In 2013, you ensured that the healthcare budget only increased by 0.9 %. That wasn't an easy thing to do, but you did. I would like to congratulate you on the fact that the healthcare budget increased by only 0.9 % in 2013. Over the next few years, we will increase the health budget by 1.5 percent above inflation. So that's less strict than you were in the year 2013.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u25	You're giving us the explanation. What you're saying is not wrong, but it's not fair either! Indeed, I have made efforts and I will never be here – I will repeat it just now – a "there is only one". "All you have to do is spend, and so on." No, I'm not like that. You'll never get me on this field! Yes, we've made efforts, one year sometimes more than others. That is why I have spoken about the last ten years: I have indeed assumed responsibility for Health for an appreciable amount of time. I say and repeat that over the last ten years, growth has been 3%, sometimes with stronger growth and sometimes, when possible, slower growth. But you, what you are proposing, is determined growth of 1.5% for the future, without saying that you are preserving the patient. So I'm waiting for the explanations. I'll be fair. If I'm told we can do this without hurting our health care system, I'll say hello. But I'm just saying that if we go to savings of more than $1.5 billion, it's going to hurt and that could undermine our health care system, which – I'm sure you're convinced – would not be acceptable. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what about competitiveness? In order for it to be in good shape, we must try to ensure that it is based on optimal social consultation. The very nature of our social model is precisely to enable the social partners to define the main principles of social security and employment policy. Your Government is well aware of the value of this social consultation since you write black and white in your agreement, I quote: "This social consultation is at all levels of negotiation an element that guarantees the stability and legitimacy of the reforms undertaken." All right! That being said, whether it is non-indexing, planed pensions, wage standards, worker/employee status, overtime in the Horeca, revision of the Renault law, joint commissions, pre-pension – the list is not exhaustive – in all these cases, you immediately flout social consultation. You are at best imposing tripartite consultations and, at worst, you are replacing the social partners, even before they can reach an agreement. I really think that your government risks endangering social peace, which I obviously do not want, because I think it would act like a boomerang on the health of our economy. Also take the tax chapter, on which other prominent members of my group will come back later. At the heart of the government's tax plans, the government has a strong and strong intention for tax reform and shift taxation. Tax reform, let's just talk about it. You will recall that just before the elections, there had been some exchanges, sometimes friendly, sometimes less, in any case, a few in your majority, notably in the MR, had proposed a major tax reform, with an increase in the tax-exempt quota up to 13 000 euros, with the abolition of certain tax brackets... in short, a reform to 20 billion euros! Unpayable, of course. We said so.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u26	But that was the time when we shaved for free!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u27	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u28	Mr Borsus, a little attention, please: 15 billion more on corporate taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u29	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u30	Please continue, Mrs. Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u31	Mr. President invites me to continue. And, of course, as usual, I listen to him! What remains of the snoring promises of the pre-election? I quote: "The possibility of a shift towards taxes on income other than those from work to indirect taxes and/or environmental taxes should be examined". "Words, words," as Dalida said, "still words!" Instead of the major reforms announced, in reality, the government is proposing to raise the flat-rate professional fees through an increase in excise duties on tobacco, diesel and certain VAT increases. For the rest, we'll see later, we're told. We'll study the matter. So this is the great tax shift that the government is proposing! Ladies and gentlemen, the only realistic option to make a real shift that would have reduced taxes on labour income was the taxation of capital income and the taxation of capital gains. It is at this level that the most important margins are found. It is by this way that we could have made a real shift without affecting the purchasing power of the middle class, without harming our economy. Who is naive enough to believe that, if a clear signal is not given in the government agreement, any serious initiative can be taken by this government. But it would probably have taken a little courage to go in that direction, to go in the right direction. No, I don't! Once again, you should not touch this famous taboo. It was even necessary, against all logic, to show idiocy, not to touch the golden calf with surplus-values. And so much so if it would have made our tax system more equitable. I quote: "A progressive system of income taxation implies that the heavier burdens weigh on the strongest shoulders". You're talking, as the other one would say! Annuitants will not pay any tax on the profits, even if they are soaring, of the sale of their stock pack. Do you find that fair, Prime Minister? Does the government really think that the alouette mirror of its transparency tax abuses anyone? We support this measure. In fact, we proposed it, not so long ago. But here we are talking about a measure to combat tax evasion and, of course, not a capital tax. Imposing capital income: on the contrary, the government reduces the levies by introducing a system equivalent to re-establishing a 10% personal discount on certain dividends. And yet the Conseil Supérieur des Finances had estimated that a real tax shift, where all taboos would be lifted, could bring back – I quote – "4 billion a year". As a result, it would have been possible to invest for the benefit of workers and for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises. In the same way, it should not be surprising that a government that claims to want to fight fraud, which advocates the strengthening of collaboration between the FPS inspection services, is bizarrely scattered within it the competences in the fight against tax fraud and the fight against social fraud. Strange design of efficiency: do what I say and not what I do. Even more strange: the fight against tax fraud and the fight against poverty is the responsibility of the same Secretary of State. Pure coincidence, of course, unless, for some, there is a correlation between poverty and fraud: to what can all these unemployed people occupy their days? That's what we have to understand in half a word. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also surprised by other competitiveness measures. Indeed, when we read the proposals, we cannot fail to see how much the project presented to us is exclusively designed and built for employers. It is striking, for example, that wages are always viewed as a cost and never as income. It is this corporate prism that explains the government's obsession on this point. For him, all means are good to reduce wages; the blocking of real wages first, the index jump then, the structural changes of the 1996 law to stifle any hope of recovering tomorrow what will be lost today. Just by the index jump, for a very average salary, it is a hold-up of 400 euros per year. We do not say that wage control is never justified. When a gap was created with Germany as a result of the acceleration of inflation in our country, we ourselves agreed to intervene, as long as indexation is maintained elsewhere. But today, the wage gap is narrowing and there is no objective reason why wages should be prevented from progressing with the growth of the economy. Your position in this matter is purely ideological. Right-wing parties like to boast the value of work. They gladly oppose it to the culture of assistance that the welfare state would maintain. This position around the value of work is clarified in this project. The right likes work as a concept, but it has nothing but to do workers! These are useful instruments that must cost as little as possible and, ideally, have the right taste to stay in their place. For us, work must ideally be a source of personal realization for the worker. It is through the status it offers and the remuneration it generates that the work is emancipating. It makes no sense to distinguish between work and wages. For us, your war against wages is basically a war against work! A war that is being waged on several fronts. Reducing workers' wages is not enough for you. You must also tackle the rules that protect them: flexibilisation of hours and night work, speeding up dismissal procedures, reduction of notice. I don't think there's a single claim from the FEB that you don't find in one way or another in your draft agreement. All these protective rules, you present them as obstacles to growth and competitiveness. You do not even mention the impact that these changes could have on the quality of life of workers. Your indifference to them is staggering! In addition to these efforts imposed on workers, the State itself contributes to improving competitiveness by reforming employers' contributions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u32	Can Mr. Beke intervene?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u33	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u34	Be sure I take into account the interruptions, ma'am!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u35	But I can stay all morning, all day...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u36	Mrs Onkelinx, you really are making it a caricature.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u37	No, I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u38	I'll tell you why. With the previous government, we have focused on employment, jobs and job creation, and so do we with the new government. With the previous government, in order to increase the flexibility of the labour market, we have introduced the degressivity of unemployment benefits. We've introduced the benefits. We have concluded a competitiveness pact, which we will implement in this legislature. To say that the previous government was there for the workers and that the present is against the workers is wrong. This government makes a choice not only to be there for the people who have a job today, but also for those who want one tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. That's the choice we make.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u39	Mr. Beke, you won't have me on the subject, because I don't deny... It's getting a little weird!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u40	Mrs Onkelinx, we can discuss the method, but in the previous legislature we also intervened in the index. It was on the proposal of sp.a that VAT on electricity was reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u41	You've always opposed it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u42	There were good reasons to oppose it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u43	So you say!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u44	But we've assisted. The result was that we actually did an index jump through the back door. Now there will be an index jump and I admit that, Mrs Onkelinx, we also find it difficult. I admit that, but it is a corrected index jump! We use 100 percent of the wealth envelope and we add 127 million euros for the benefit recipients and pensioners. We are doing this twice as much as we did in the previous legislature. To compensate for this, we are giving back EUR 1 billion because you are talking about EUR 400 to the people who work, and a total of EUR 1.6 billion through the welfare envelope. It is correct when you say that the previous government was one for the people who work. But the next government, this government, will also be one of these, with choices that are economically sound and socially acceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u45	Mr. Beke, I'll repeat it later. You already disappoint me with your knowledge of the index. It is a myth, which you and your colleagues have been telling for a long time, that there has been a hidden index jump in the previous legislature. I don't need to explain to you how the index works. As prices rise, so does wages. One takes the prices of goods and services that one normally needs to live on. What did the previous government do? She looked at what was in the hive and found that in the hive prices of goods and services were taken into account which are not actually of this time anymore. For example, people looked at the price of the phone instead of the price of the cell phone. And that's what you call a hidden index jump. We have also ensured in the previous legislature that prices for energy, for electricity, have fallen. This, of course, must also be included in the index. It was not a hidden index jump at all, we simply took into account the real prices. It is not only through the Flemish Government that you increase the prices of electricity and childcare, as well as the prices of school children, that you now decide to reduce wages through the federal government, because you say you are doing an index jump of 2%. You deceive people when you say that who works will earn more in the future. I have one final point. You say you'll compensate for that. Mr Beke, you must have calculated the amount of compensation yourself. It doesn't cover what you're taking from people! Not at all, excuse me!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u46	I would also like to say to Mr Beke, with whom we have negotiated a great deal, that I absolutely do not deny what was done under the former legislature. I told you earlier that you will never find a person in front of you who says, "It's only up to..." No, effort, you have to make it! We did not touch the indexation of wages, we did not recommend an index jump and we increased some of the wages, especially the low wages. This was an important and intelligent policy. On the other hand, I understand that during the negotiations, as you are telling me, it was difficult for you to accept an index jump. For us, that would have been impossible! You're more flexible. But I also understand that, as compensation, you were going to claim a tax on capital gains. You didn't get it, Mr. Beke. So you "shocked" and the index jump and the lack of measures towards capital. So, please, don't come and give lessons!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u47	Mrs Onkelinx, I'm sorry, but unfortunately, that's not right. In 2015, we will increase the welfare envelope, of which 60% was paid, to more than 120 %, to compensate the index for benefits and pensions. So that is twice as much as in the previous legislature. All of this will cost about 400 million. Those 400 million will come from wealth income.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u48	I look forward to seeing you in committee so that we can show you exactly what has been decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u49	A small remark: from a very small amount of income from the large assets and certainly no added value tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u50	Mr Beke is playing his part as party chairman, but I think it is important to stay close enough to reality, for example in the area of capital tax. I do not know if you were here yesterday, but our group was asking for the figures associated with this coalition agreement to be on the table. They haven't been distributed. With regard to capital tax, it is now 500, then 600, then 400 million. It's different every time. The conclusion on the tax shift has already been made for us. The parties who said they were in favour of a tax shift, including yours, have lost. They didn't realize that. Capital income will increase by 0.1 % of GDP towards 2019. Have you negotiated for 0.1% tax shift? Have you campaigned for 0.1 % tax shift? That's not a tax shift. The only tax shift out there is to people who work, to people who have a hard time. I quote Marc Leemans, you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u51	Mr Beke, I wanted to add that in addition to the efforts imposed on workers, the State itself contributes to improving competitiveness by reforming employers' contributions. But here too, the choice of modalities is quite surprising! While all studies agree on the value of concentrating employment aid on lower-skilled people, who are therefore generally affected by low wages, you have chosen not to make provision for them and to devote your entire envelope to those whose actual rate is now more than 25%, i.e. the middle or even the top of the wage distribution. This choice too, Mr. Beke, seems incomprehensible to me! In the end, you claim to bring the Belgian economy back to life by imposing painful efforts on the workers and giving unnecessary gifts to the bosses. You will understand that, in this context, the public cannot applaud this famous courage. You now have a lot of power, including the power to be unjust. I think it is necessary to have decency, however, not to take the workers for fools! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues will speak at length on the "Justice", "Security" and "Immigration" sections, where the leg of the right is clearly visible. A security policy is turning to a security policy, in which the obsession of order systematically takes precedence over respect for individual freedoms and where nothing is said, or so little, about the social reintegration policies that we need so much. I would like to highlight two elements related to the Department of Justice. The government, you say, will examine how justice can become more self-financing. It's still amazing! So what is this idea of self-financing? Apart from the reference to registry fees, the text remains silent. Unless I'm mistaken, Justice's revenues fall into the common pot of the state budget. Are you going to make an exception for this department and, in a way, make him hostage to his own recipes? Moreover, as you know, the increase in registry and role fees will primarily disadvantage the poorest people, but also the middle classes - for whom the cost of justice is too often prohibitive. We can legitimately ask ourselves whether, in the end, the government's objective is not, in reality, to impoverish the judiciary. Another thing: before the elections, a great debate brought together all the parties, at the initiative of the bar, on legal aid. I was there with several colleagues. Your party, Prime Minister, by the voice of Mrs Marghem, had promised additional means to get out of the logic of the closed envelope. In your answer, I would simply ask you to clarify how this promise is fulfilled in the text of the agreement. Before concluding, I would like to refer to three particular points of your agreement: calling into question the exit of nuclear power, the international policy of our country and the place of Brussels. This government claims the opposite, but it seems to me – some of my colleagues will come back – that we are actually burying the exit from nuclear power. You make it look like you're extending Doel 1 and Doel 2 to address the risk of electricity shortages for this winter and next winter, but you know that this extension will not increase security of supply in the next two years. Why extend these two reactors for ten years if it is not to question the exit of nuclear power? My group will denounce this extension, which requires very heavy investment, to the detriment of maintaining or developing other sources of nuclear production. I ask you: how will this government support the gas-fired power plants, which are essential? What will this government support for renewable energy? In my view, the extension of these two reactors is a bad signal given to other investors than Electrabel, as part of the development of the energy mix. Moreover, for my group, your approach to international affairs seems problematic. Maybe I didn't get it right. We have the impression of a much more warlike government and of a government of international relations which is very strongly imbued with the need for economic relations. Humanitarianism, international solidarity and aid to the people have been ignored. Development cooperation will now be limited to the fight against immigration and, I quote: 'to bring added value to our businesses'. While not one line speaks, for example, of the fight against hunger in the world. In defence, the first measures announced are part of a particular concept of attack rather than defence: withdrawal from our UN demining mission in Lebanon to return with NATO in Afghanistan, announcement of the purchase of fighter aircraft before even defining any strategy in the long term, both in European coordination and in the search for economic benefits for our country, while we ask our fellow citizens to tighten their belts. The closure mentioned – I hope that this will not be the case – of the Military Hospital, which, however, plays a crucial role in our country's healthcare sector and could have played an extremely important role in the Ebola crisis. Minister of the previous government, I had written to you to tell you that it seemed useful to me that a unit at the Military Hospital could accommodate Ebola patients, as is done in other countries. I really hope that this project, which is essential if we are to accommodate patients who have contracted this disease, will not be undermined. Ladies and gentlemen, our country was small in size but large in its international and diplomatic relations and in its humanitarian aid. I hope that he will not now become a blind Atlanticist actor in the name of market interest and short-term equities. Finally, I am amazed at the small number of cases you make in your statement of the place of the capital of this country, Brussels. Just a few words, not to guarantee him his status, his means as capital of the country, not to indicate any willingness to carry out, with regional decision-makers, some major projects to ensure his international influence. No, you're talking about it in the chapter "Financial sector, banks and insurance"! Your ambition for Brussels is simply to make it a financial centre that must "respond to the needs of business and financial service providers". What a lack of consideration for this region and its inhabitants! Is this again the influence of the great architect of your agreement, the Antwerper who, as everyone knows, has nothing to do with the capital of this country? That, Prime Minister, is what I wanted to tell you. I said that, by your government, by your choices, but also by your silences, Belgium was entering an area of turbulence. I'm not happy about that. Like you, I love my country, which has built, on the basis of a body of strong values, an economic and social model that has brought it to one of the best rankings on the world scale of well-being. We can and we must always do better. Solidarity must be further developed with regard to men and women who are experiencing difficulties in their lives. Workers, the economic sector and in particular our small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the sap of our economy, must be better supported. But in order to achieve this while respecting the deadlines for returning to balance, we did not have to adopt a policy of rupture, as you propose, which risks breaking all the evolutions built over time. Courage is not to be a blessing-yes-yes of the liberal ideology developed, among other things, by the IMF. Courage is not to ask the weak to participate more than others in reducing our deficit. Courage is not to give ourselves to a party that threatens our common future. Courage is not to want power at all costs. You're making a mistake, Prime Minister! The socialist opposition will deploy to remind you. We are not going to do what we condemned yesterday. We are not suddenly – as I have said several times – losing ourselves to demagogic and populist words. I've always had a holy horror of "there's only one" and I won't change my mind about it! The PS wants to be an opposition which denounces when necessary, but which also debates, proposes and supports what may need to be. In short, by denying you confidence, the PS is ready for an opposition of resistance and hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it may not surprise you that I am going to be much more positive than the previous speaker. You will probably be pleased that I am also going to be much shorter than the previous speaker. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on his project. It's a beautiful project, it's a coherent project, it's a project with vision. It's a project that allows policy making. It has been different once; we have known the times of Councilor Löjinconciliable, but fortunately they are over. I would also like to congratulate the Prime Minister on his excellent knowledge of Dutch. That too has been different in recent times. As far as the N-VA is concerned, this coalition is the logical consequence of the elections of 25 May 2014. It may hurt some people to hear it, but the left-wing parties have lost the elections. The PS minus three seats, Ecolo minus two. CdH lost votes; can they still lose seats? The MR won two seats. On the Flemish side there is a very clear majority of Open Vld, CD&V and N-VA. It is therefore clear that in those circumstances Elio II was not an option. It was also clear to the N-VA that there would be only one kamikaze government in this country, especially Elio II. Mrs Onkelinx just asked why the N-VA is in the government. I'll answer that. Because everyone liked it so much in your Elio I that no one but the PS was willing to move forward with the Di Rupo government. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u53	In Shanghai, ma'am. The truth is also that the progressive parties, such as the PS, are not actually making progress. Where has the progression been in recent years? I hope that this progress will be made, and I am even sure that it will be the intention of this government. There are very clear objectives, namely to reduce the tax burden, which will be unique, to reduce the public debt, which will also be unique, and we will get the biggest clean-up ever, with a competitive shock and with a budget in balance from 2018. I would like to remind you that the date of 2018 was just the one that was in our program. We will do so through structural reforms, by restoring the competitiveness pact. We will eliminate the labour cost handicap which has arisen since 1996, and we will reduce employers' contributions to the RSZ, particularly from 33% to 25%, which is a significant reduction. You will also have read in the media that the aforementioned plans were unanimously welcomed by the Eurogroup.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u54	Mr Vuye, Mr Calvo would like to interrupt you for a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u55	Mr President, Mr Vuye, you are quoting a number of figures. Yesterday, in an interview with you, I saw that you stated that you are new to Parliament, but that you are familiar with parliamentary dynamics and that you are eager to do so. You must therefore also understand our question, which is a very simple yes/no question, with regard to the figures. After all, you, a Member of Parliament who likes the dynamics of Parliament, understand that Parliament is not only making peace with the figures you are quoting, but wants the full budget table. Do you agree or do you have a problem with such transparency?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u56	Mr Calvo, a Member of Parliament with your experience should know that such figures should be requested from the government and not from the leader of the opposition group. These figures are not asked for by a Member of Parliament but by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u57	Mr Vuye, I know that the N-VA is a tightly guided party. However, if it is already taboo to ask a Member's opinion on the functioning of Parliament and on parliamentary transparency, then it has come a long way. So my question makes perfect sense. Do you consider this to be normal in your capacity as a Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u58	Thank you for your appreciation of the N-VA. I'll take them with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u59	Minister Jamar is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u60	Mr President, there is a lot of talk about figures. I'm gonna ask for a little more patience, two or three hours. Excuse me: in Wallonia, a government settled on 22 July; in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, too, recently. However, we still do not have the tables I expect to send them to the European Commission. And we should have had the numbers since the day before yesterday when this was the day our government was formed! You will receive them this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u61	Mr President, like my colleague Mr Calvo, I wanted to be quick to thank the government and the Budget Minister for the presentation of the figures. Indeed, it is fundamental: behind the fine speeches made, the figures should allow us to see clearly. So I'm waiting for these paintings. I understand that, for the Walloon Region and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, you do not have one. Whatever! Let's start the debate according to federal figures. We are therefore waiting for them at 2:00 p.m. and we will then be able to resume on a numerical basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u62	Don't say "whatever." We must take into account Entity I and Entity II. I'm waiting for Entity II to send the whole thing. In our house, everything is in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u63	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you say that things are slow, but I would like to point out that both the Prime Minister and a number of other ministers have said that the tables have been ready for a long time. We are very pleased that we will have the figures this afternoon, and I suggest that we suspend the sitting now until we have the tables. If you are so sure that we will have it in two hours, let us have a fair debate, with the figures in hand, and suspend the sitting for two hours from now.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u64	Carry on, Mr Vuye.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u65	Mr President, I have spoken about removing the pay handicap. I also talked about the...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u66	Mr Minister, I know that everything is new and that it is still getting used to for you and perhaps I have misunderstood myself, but I have asked you a clear question, in particular let us suspend the sitting for two hours until we have the tables. I'm asking you for an answer, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u67	It's physically impossible, they have to turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u68	Mr President, I am a little surprised that we are starting yesterday's debate again. To clarify immediately the continuation of our work following this perfectly legitimate proposal on the part of the opposition, I propose to move to a vote on Mrs Temmerman's proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u69	Mr President, I can continue without the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u70	I know. I suggest that, if there is a proposal, you table a motion and then we will vote on it. Anyone here can ask for a suspension at any time. You can't assume that we'll go into that? If you have reasonable reasons, you can table a motion and we will vote on it. I now propose that Mr Vuye proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u71	Mr President, you say that it is not because there is a proposal that we should deal with it. Could you please clarify who we are?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u72	The meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u73	The meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u74	Mrs Temmerman, if there is a proposal for a settlement, the House will take a decision on the matter. And now Mr Vuye has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u75	I have just been talking about removing the labour cost handicap and reducing the RSZ employer's contribution. Thirdly, I would like to talk about longer working hours. I have just heard that longer work would be equivalent to social decline. I think that is a most peculiar argument. I believe that less long working hours will lead to social decline and that the benefits and social benefits will be put at risk. As far as the government programme is concerned, I would like to point out that N-VA is a very firm party. I refer to the arguments put forward by my predecessor Jan Jambon and what he said on 8 December 2011 on the occasion of the debate on the previous government. N-VA voted against because there were massive tax increases, because there were no savings and because there was nothing in the agreement about wage competitiveness. N-VA is very steadfast. The current agreement does meet these three criteria and we therefore support it. There are a number of things in it that I think people are fainting about. I think it's silly of the PS to talk about the index jump. You are well aware that you will need that index jump in order to put things right in the teaching of the French Community. As far as pensions are concerned, I think everyone is well aware that something had to be done here. We have inherited from the previous government a switch-off plan on energy. It was not a big deal whether there was a retirement plan. The prospect of a new system, a point system, in 2030 is something we can only welcome. The chapter on social progress also contains a number of important elements, including the fight against poverty. The N-VA is supposedly the hard party, but benefits are raised to the level of the poverty threshold. I wonder why the soft parties didn't realize that earlier. As far as the justice system is concerned, all the penalties will be applied from now on. That point was important to us. There will be modern criminal law and a modern penal code. We will deal with the legal backlog. There is also an important piece on the modernisation of family law, including a patrimonial scheme for care children and a regulation of the status of care and foster parents. That too is something that the hard party N-VA must realize and what the soft parties have not realized for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u76	Mr President, I would like to respond to Mr Vuye's caricature of hard and soft parties. It was also more or less at the heart of the debate between Mrs Onkelinx and Mr Beke on the impact of wage cuts and the strengthening of social security. According to you, Mr Vuye, the beauty of this story is that the so-called hard party is reducing poverty. Many parties are sensitive to this. In our country, there is one institution, Herman Deleeck's Centre for Social Policy, which measures very closely the effects of social security and looks at measures to determine whether they are eliminating insecurity and poverty. The coincidence is that two eminent professors of the Centre for Social Policy are writing a free gallery in De Standaard today. I quote: "It has always been mindful of predictions, but on the basis of what we read in the coalition agreement, we will be able to experience an Abba reunion rather than poverty. That is what two researchers from the Centre for Social Policy, Mr Marx and Dr Van Lancker, explain today in a free gallery after analysing the measures contained in the coalition agreement. The essence of their statement is that everyone working on social security knows that everything depends on the performance of the labour market. One of the basic reasons why, in their view, there will be no progress in the fight against poverty is that the reduction in wage costs decided and costing billions will have a very inefficient impact on employment and the result is an increase in poverty. Not I say that, not Mrs Onkelinx says that, but the two top researchers of the Centre for Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u77	I too have read with great attention the open gallery to which Mr Bonte refers. In fact, they do not even need to be read, because the coalition agreement itself says a lot. I refer to page 37 of the coalition agreement as published on the CD&V website, since variants are circulating. There, Mr Vuye, it is clear that your own government agreement is expected and recognises that a number of measures on the labour market, such as the removal of waiting payments, the removal of part-time work and so on, may lead to an increase in the number of living wage clients. More people will have to turn to the assistance, see page 37. A lot of free stands have already been written. Midfield organisations are concerned about this agreement. As far as the labour market is concerned, you yourself acknowledge that by choosing this path, you are pushing people into poverty. This is in your own coalition agreement, this is a choice that you have made very clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u78	Mr Calvo, why do you really think that the coalition agreement is focusing on the creation of jobs? Just to get people out of poverty, that's why! As far as Home Affairs is concerned, there are a number of points that please us very much, including tackling nuisance and, certainly, a targeted approach to radicalisation. The N-VA promised the Flemings a socio-economic recovery government before the elections. We deliver on this promise. There will be recovery and we will guarantee the future. Was the Community taken away? In any case, we have promised, as clearly stated in the coalition agreement, that the Community will not be dealt with for five years. The Prime Minister also reminded us of this. We will keep that promise faithfully. On page 2, it is also stated that after this legislature, the electorate will be able to decide on the various policy projects. I think N-VA's policy project is well known.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u79	Mr Vuye, I have noted that N-VA spokesmen have often referred to that one sentence in the past week, in particular that the voter will be able to express his views on all the dimensions of the policy in 2019. I don't have a problem with that. I look forward to any Community debates in 2019. But I also consulted the website of Doorbraak, a website of the Flemish Movement that is undoubtedly known to you and gives insight into the course of the N-VA congress. In order to get this conference of nationalists over the line, it has been said that, my dear friends, we will be voting on all the projects, so Article 195 will be subject to revision. As a lawyer, I have no problem with that, and I will gladly enter into that debate, but can you say clearly whether or not there is an agreement on Article 195 in the Atoma papers? Yes or no, Mr. Vuye?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u80	Mr Calvo, as an experienced Member of Parliament, you should know...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u81	You spoke about this at your congress, so I think that in this political situation, in order to really know your agenda and the agenda of Mr Michel and Mr Peeters, Parliament is entitled to that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u82	Mr Calvo, please, as an experienced Member of Parliament, you should know that I will clearly not tell you what and whether there is anything in those Atoma writings. You get the numbers, but you don't get the Atoma!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u83	So there's some Atoma scrolls? Is there an agreement in there? I don't care if it's in Atoma.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u84	Mr. Calvo!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u85	Mr Borsus says no. Mr Borsus says that there is no agreement on Rule 195. Is that right? Yes or no? That's a very simple question. Then we can have the political situation...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u86	Submit a motion and request the Atoma scrolls.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u87	Putting in a motion to request Atoma scrolls, I don't think this is possible. Mr Vuye, you have just said that everyone knows the final project of the N-VA. Maybe you can give me a little explanation, because I don't really know it. Could you give me a little explanation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u88	Apparently, something slipped your mind last year. We have organised a very extensive conference on this subject. This is particularly widely spread in the media. We have also published texts on this subject. I'll have them sent to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u89	Mr. Dewael?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u90	Mr President, I am really pleased that every time I stand straight there is commotion in the hemisphere. That was the intention this time. I find an amazing paradox here. Unfortunately, the Michel Government has committed itself to leaving the Community untouched during this term of office. That apparently surprises many, but it does. I will not speak about the Community as the majority leader. I believe that my fellow Members from the majority will not do that either. Ironically, in her speech, Mrs Onkelinx indirectly called for a certain confederal logic. Now we are talking about Article 195 of the Constitution. Who brings that up?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u91	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u92	I didn't say the word.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u93	Mr Calvo has asked a question about this. He asked whether or not there is a commitment to Article 195. Do you know which party was in favour, at the end of the previous legislature, of working with an open constitutional review and Article 195? That was the Parti Socialiste at the time. I'm just establishing that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u94	I would now like to have the debate on the socio-economic issue, because that is the commitment we have all expressed before the elections. It seems that we are causing some kind of existential problem to another party, who had thought to be able to combat this government on the basis of the Community and now finds that they are not able to do so. Well, please shut up about it. Enter the debate on socio-economic recovery policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u95	At the end of the legislative term, Parliament has the constitutional right, or almost the constitutional duty, to designate the articles which it wishes to declare subject to revision. I am talking about Parliament, Mr Wathelet. Parliament will take up its role at that time. Or is it the intention of an investigative debate to take away that democratic right from Parliament already? Once again, do the debate on the socio-economic, judicial, police and all other issues, but stop trying to set the fuse on the Community every time, because you will not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u96	My limited parliamentary experience teaches me that if Mr Dewael sets himself right, it is necessary. Then he feels it is necessary to protect this majority. It's a pleasure for him to do that. His plea to give all the attention to the socio-economic issue, which I am entirely in favour of. We are the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We are the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Group of the We should not be told what to do in that debate. Colleagues of your majority, Mr Dewael, suggest that there is an agreement here and in the media. Mr Michel says he doesn't now. That's the only question. Is there a deal about that? Yes or no? That's a very simple question. That makes it easier for us to understand a number of demarches that have been taking place in this majority for a great deal over the past 24 hours........................................................................................................................................................................................ Then we know better about the agenda of the various majority parties. It would be better for us to have a socio-economic opposition, because that is what is needed with this coalition agreement, Mr Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u97	Mr Calvo, if you read the coalition agreement correctly, you will see that it literally states: "After the end of this legislature, as provided for by the electoral system and as permitted by the Constitution, it will be up to the electorate to decide on the various policy projects. As Mr Dewael has just pointed out, we can submit constitutional articles at the end of the legislative term. Our Prime Minister started his speech yesterday. You didn't listen very well yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u98	That is indeed the last line of the second page of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u99	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u100	It would be a shame not to read Doorbraak, but you decide. What did we, the N-VA, promise the Flemings? We have promised the Flemings a restoration government, if possible with the PS in the opposition. We'll do it after 26 years. Since the elections of 13 December 1987, the PS has been in the majority. In fact, I believe that you were elected for the first time in those elections, Mrs Onkelinx, just like Mr Di Rupo. You will now see, I saw yesterday that you had to learn a little bit of trouble with this in order to oppose it. Eventually, after 26 years, you may learn that and if you do not have to learn it, you may experience it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u101	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u102	If you don't have to learn it, you can experience it. You have that pleasure thanks to the N-VA. You will have that pleasure for five years, perhaps for ten years, and if it is up to me, you will have that pleasure even longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u103	Congratulations on your maiden speech, Mr. Vuye. Mrs Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u104	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we finally have a government. Its formation has taken a little longer than everyone expected. However, when parties have to twist themselves into many turns and translate many promises differently, it takes a little longer than usual. We have already had a few foretastes in the press over the last few days and they taste quite acidic. The totality of what you, the government, intend to do, actually only became clear to us last weekend when we were able to read the full agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, the coalition chord tastes sour. After all, our fears have become reality. After all, not only do we, as I mentioned earlier, get an invoice government at Flemish level. At federal level, we also have a government based on two principles, namely unfairness and injustice. Ladies and gentlemen, this unfairness and injustice are reflected not only in the measures taken by the government, but above all in who will pay for the measures. Ladies and gentlemen, make no mistake. The government does not demand the efforts of the great assets, not the multinationals, not the shareholders, not the strong shoulders. No, it demands the efforts of ordinary people and of ordinary families in our country. So please stop lying to the people and say that there is finally a centre-right government here. No, ladies and gentlemen, there is clearly a cold right-wing government without a centre. All the costs and consequences of the proposed policy are entirely borne by families, by young people looking for jobs, by hard-working single people and by those who are already struggling. It is they who will sweat in the years to come. It won't just be sweat drops. It will be a real hangover and the hangover of the poisonous cocktail will take much longer than a day. I can assure you that the protest against the government will also take longer than a day. It starts today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u105	Mrs Temmerman, there is a proper debate on what the government will or will not do in the next few years. However, you are making a caricature, as if our government were a cold government. Our government is committed to economic growth and social progress. Our government is doing what your sp.a. President has announced for years but has not done. I remember Bruno Tobback's statements as then Minister of Pensions that he knew what had to be done to ensure the affordability of pensions, but that on the day he would do so, he would not get any more votes. Now, I will not joke about the number of votes obtained, but our government is doing what needs to be done. No longer than a year ago, we will probably talk about retirement age. Bruno Tobback said that his daughter would have to work longer than her 65th if we wanted to keep pensions affordable. Our government is making the choices made in the Vandenbroucke report after the elections. Our government is making those choices so that we would not be faced with the fact that a question that we heard in Parliament a few years ago from a Socialist Minister for Pensions, namely whether pensions would still be affordable in 2015, would come true. Over the next five years, hundreds of thousands of workers will retire. Our government is allocating EUR 7 billion extra to meet these growing pension needs. So the government certainly makes the choice to offer security, perspective and future to the people. That's quite another thing than to say that those are cold choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u106	The Socialists amaze me here, and certainly with the metaphor of a cold government, which makes us sweat. That's pretty original. Mr Bonte was also a bit daring when he referred to a study by the Deleeck Centre, which starts with the observation that no government with the socialists has succeeded in reducing poverty. Mr Bonte, I suggest that you quote from sources that are right. Mrs Temmerman, I also find your claim that it took quite some time to form the government strange. If you were able to form a government yourself last time after only 541 days, perhaps that reference should have been omitted. You have said that the resistance is already starting to rise. May I ask what you mean by that? A democratic debate is taking place here in the elected parliament. Does it mean that decisions on governments should be taken elsewhere than in parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u107	I will begin with the last question you ask me. Of course, as an opposition, we are supposed to oppose your government policy here. I think it's my right, unless that principle is changed now, that it's also in the power of change. But I hope not, and of course the decisions are taken here, I do not think I have said anything else. Mr Beke, of course we have to make choices and I will come back to that later. The question is what choices you make and, above all, who pays for those choices. That's the point. We have been saying for years that we must ensure that our citizens, our children and our grandchildren have a pension. You admitted it yourself. It is clear that we are taking care of this. Again, it's about the way you take care of it. You have read the Vandenbroucke report very selectively, and I shall come back to that later. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an alternative to what is being proposed here. Of course, Mr Beke, structural reforms are needed, of course. But, once again, when it is implemented, one can choose where to place the burden. It is not necessary to place them unilaterally with the families. Colleagues, the first alternative is to look at the profits from shares. Maybe they're a little high in this country. They're referring to the tax shift. Now, normally a tax shift should mean that the burden is borne by the strongest shoulders. I don't know if Lord None is here anymore...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u108	That was the spirit of Mr. Geens. In his capacity as Minister of Finance during the previous government, Mr Geens asked the High Council for Finance to examine how best to organise the tax shift. In August, the Supreme Court replied. So you could have used that report. This showed very clearly that a tax on profits from shares is the best alternative to finance the reduction in taxes on income from labour. That is also what we are in favour of, Mr Beke, a reduction in the tax on income from labour. Once again, one must look where one gets those proceeds. More than that, the Supreme Court has even calculated how much this could bring. Mrs Onkelinx has already referred to it, it is EUR 4 billion. That's the first alternative. The second alternative that this government could use is the fight against fraud, so that everyone contributes in a fair way, and indeed it is a slogan that one gets the money where it is. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is making different choices. It places the burden elsewhere. After all, who should make the effort? The architect of this government has said several times that it will hurt. Unfortunately, he was right. The efforts that are being demanded are hurting. I'll start with the first one, the index jump. I was just talking about a EUR 4 billion return. This government chooses to install an index jump for the families and for everyone who works. It is an index jump of EUR 2.6 billion. This is not a one-off effort, because your own finance minister has recently stated that it is a structural measure that will carry the companies forever. The workers will also carry this index jump for eternity, but you have forgotten that for a moment. I am explaining this on the basis of the following concrete example. A newly graduate nurse of 20 years of age who is only starting to work has a gross wage of 2 000 euros. At the end of her career, this so-called one-off index jump will have cost her EUR 26 170. That's a tax that can count. In fact, this index jump, as I said earlier, is part of a one-two with the Flemish Government, because it has already increased a number of costs. Water, energy, childcare, school and university are all becoming more expensive and, on top of that, this government will also make an index jump, which will certainly reduce wages in reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u109	Mr President, I would like to ask that the Prime Minister remain present when the second largest opposition party has the floor on the declaration of government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u110	So I said it's a one-two with the Flemish government. On the one hand, to increase costs and, on the other hand, to reduce wages is a very good federalism of cooperation, but it is not the federalism of cooperation that we stand for. Moreover, it is equally electoral deception, because all the parties that now form the federal government at the time of the elections have very much liked to say that it is not the workers who earn too much, but the employers who have to pay too much. I will quote Mr Peeters on this. He said during the election campaign: "With us, people are hurting no program point. We are in favour of getting rid of the pay handicap, and you do not do so by discouraging young people, by putting the knife on the throat of single parents who are out of work, by taking pay away from those who work. Take note of that last point in Mr Peeter's statements during the campaign. Then you stand there with your index jump. Excuse me, but with an index jump the wage is reduced by 2 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u111	Mrs Temmerman, it is always very touching when you repeat your slogan "Get the money where it sits." Quite a coincidence, that's also the Mafia slogan. I don't know if there's any resemblance. Your alternative is clear, namely taxes. Taxes, taxes, taxes! We have seen enough of this during the previous legislature. The result is known, namely that more than 20 000 people are less at work thanks to the tax avalanche of the previous legislature. The liquidation bonus alone has driven a huge number of SMEs over the blade, resulting in huge job losses. If there's one thing that's priority for the government, it's jobs. Jobs, jobs, jobs, jobs! That is the best social guarantee and the best social protection. As far as index jump is concerned, you forget to say that it has been socially corrected and that who works will be left with more. The flat-rate deduction shall be increased. If you work, you'll have more. It would be a pleasure for you to mention that as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u112	Mrs. Temmerman, you referred to Kris Peeters during the campaign. I therefore feel obliged to respond. [[Yolk]] Ladies and gentlemen, we in the party are one and indivisible. It's true that CD&V has said that people without a job shouldn't be hurt. It's not their choice that they don't have a job. That is why we have not accepted a means test. That is why we have not accepted a reduction in unemployment benefits over time. That is why we have not accepted German mini-jobs. However, we have put a lot of effort into competitiveness. It is, of course, easy to say that an index jump towards the end of the career means a loss of EUR 26 000. What you do not add up to is that we will tax advantage people who work through the job deduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u113	You won't let me finish. I came up with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u114	You don't count in that. And what you are not adding is the lack of income of all those who do not find work today because the wage burden is too high. The lack of income they have after a whole career and what they miss because there are not enough jobs available today, that is not what you are counting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u115	Mr President, I hear my colleagues in the majority say that the government's agenda is "jobs, jobs, jobs!" I note that it is written black and white that jobs in the public sector will be eliminated massively and that we will replace only one job out of five departures by 2020. This means the elimination of 11,000 jobs. I do not know if removing 11,000 jobs is a policy that creates jobs!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u116	Mr President, I would like to respond to what Mr Beke says. He postulates that CD&V has ensured that people without a job will not be hurt. I quote it again in my eyes, and in yours in the past, authoritative CSB by Herman Deleeck and Bea Cantillon. It's about the unemployed, and I quote. Moreover, pressure on the unemployed is being increased by the introduction of compulsory community service, a symbol issue that ignores everything we know about the structural causes of long-term unemployment. It does not work, it is also very stigmatizing, it is even offensive, as if it were the fault of the unemployed self-employed person. In other words, Mr Beke, I think that the unemployment problem is more than just a penny issue, in particular how much ends up in the unemployed's household by the end of the month. I think you are trying to do something about long-term unemployment in a stigmatising way. I hope that you will be able to correct that, so that you can carry out your basics of not hurting passive people or those who are unemployed in advance. In any case, you will be able to count on our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u117	It may be about work and economics, but you mention my name and you quote me, so I feel obliged to do so. I hope it's clear that this index jump is coming. That is a very delicate decision, as has been said here. The federal government has come to this to ensure that we can retain and create jobs. The Prime Minister has already stressed the fact that a tripartite meeting is being held on this subject, and that was also very clearly included in the government agreement. In doing so, we give the maximum to employers, but also to employees, the signal that the index jump is taking place to maintain the competitiveness of companies, but that this must also result in jobs. We are discussing this with the social partners. I trust that employers have understood this signal very clearly. This federal government has decided to do this, but it also assumes that this will create jobs. In this way, referring to the quote you gave, we realized what I said when I said those words.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u118	Mr Bonte, Mr Calvo, I would like to speak to you again about this consciously worrying, because that is what you are doing. I am speaking on behalf of my group, and I assume on behalf of the whole majority. We will not allow you to worry people for five years by saying that we will not give them the necessary push. You're talking about the wagers and the unemployed. With economic incentives, we will ensure that wage-earners and the unemployed do not remain in this situation for long and have to earn a living wage for years or stay in unemployment for years. Flanders and Wallonia must be confident that we will now finally give these necessary economic incentives, you have not done so for years. So, instead of always saying that we stigmatize people, I urge you to stop stigmatizing wage-earners and the unemployed by saying that they cannot seem to be activated and that they cannot be taught any work ethic. We will give them the necessary push and support where necessary. At the same time, we will also help them to act quickly again for themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u119	Mrs Smeyers, I would like to reiterate to the House that I am simply quoting what two top researchers of the Centre for Social Policy in this country write today in a free gallery. So do not blame me for being too stigmatizing. Researchers who have years of experience in monitoring our social security say that the way in which the federal government agreement thinks about tackling the long-term unemployed is offensive. Don't blame us for not being in favour of activation measures. Today, many OCMWFs, including in my city, are fully committed to people's activation. That is quite different from what you are proposing and what provokes the indignation of the researchers, in particular to require certain categories of long-term unemployed to do community service for two half days a week. That's what one describes as offensive. That's some investigators dr. Van Lancker and Dr. Marx write about that today. So that criticism isn't from us, it's from the CSB. Minister for Labour, Mr Peeters, I listened very carefully to what you said about the index jump. I share your ambition, and I think everyone is doing so, to get engagements from the employers' world with regard to the hard work you are putting on benefit recipients and workers, and that this results in additional jobs. I hope you're right. I have heard the reaction of the chairman of the VBO, Mr Temmerman. I suppose you've heard it, too. He said he doesn't see and doesn't know how the business can guarantee one job in exchange for that index jump. Your tripartite consultations will have to serve to keep up appearances for a commitment that no one can take, in particular how many thousands of jobs will be created in the future. Mr Minister, the crux of the matter, which is also driving the CSB into the curtains, is that you are actually advocating more jobs, but taking the wrong measures, a linear, very expensive reduction in labour costs, supplemented by an index jump on the cutting-off of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u120	Mr. Bonte, you're acting like that community service is some kind of alternative punishment. What is community service different from continuing to involve people in society? What is community service different from that activation, which you, as former OCMW chairman in Vilvoorde, are advocating? What's so wrong with community service, activating people? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u121	I might be able to answer the question put to Mr Bonte. We assume that people who receive a living wage and those who have a hard time in the labour market will have to look at what they can and that they should be encouraged as much as possible to help them get a job. What you are doing, Mrs Smeyers, is saying: you cannot be stimulated. You have to do community service for two half days and then we'll see if you can possibly end up in a regular job. By the way, Mrs Smeyers, Jan Denys, working expert, whom you may know, recently said in De Standaard about your proposal: "A serious system of community service will cost money, a lot of money. This system will cost much more to society than it will bring. He doesn't just mean financially, Mrs. Smeyers. He also means that it is not the right way to help people who have a hard time getting a job. That's what we're talking about here. With your system, you don't help people with a job, but you stigmatize people who don't have a job. Mr President, I have a whole series of questions from the previous speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u122	Then you'll handle it first.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u123	Mr Dedecker, it is very simple to keep saying that these jobs have been lost by the socialists, by the high wage costs. May I remind you that these jobs have been lost because we have been through a financial crisis, which you may have overlooked, which was caused by the banks, and which subsequently went into an economic crisis where neither the socialists nor the workers are the cause. Moreover, it has been said a few times here that the index jump will solve everything, that it is now the major reduction in labour costs. I told you just now that an added value tax will be worth 4 billion. That is just over EUR 2.6 billion from an index jump and with such an added value tax, you are not hurting people. You will hurt some, some, 1% of our population, but millions of others will not. That's completely different from what you're proposing. Secondly, and I shall come back to that later, the fight against fraud. There too, you are proposing something very minimal. Those too are people who could contribute much more and for whom it would be much fairer for them to contribute. But no, you prefer the index jump. Because that will now be the solution. Making people earn less will create jobs. Again, a lot of economists say that this is just the wrong way. Just recently, Paul De Grauwe said that this is the way to take away purchasing power, and just now, when the economy is back on its feet, that is the last thing we have to do. We must ensure that there is purchasing power so that the economy is further stimulated. The jobs you will create will be lost immediately and are not there either.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u124	Mrs Temmerman, as far as activation and community services are concerned, I think you are making a real caricature of it. I don't know if you have a lot of experience in accommodating wagers to work, but you're portraying this as a bad system. The people who are working on that at the OCMWFs and whom I meet every day, think that is a good step. It's already happening. It is already tolerated because it is a good step in a process of providing people with some structure, involving them in society, growing them and getting one step closer to the labour market. The people of the workplace will do a good job of the conditions and of the framework created by this coalition agreement, namely that it must fit into a job path and be limited to two half days. That is a step forward in labour activation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u125	We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u126	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, do you know who was the pioneer of community services and of activating people on a living wage to find work? Who was the pioneer in proclaiming that everyone who has ears and legs must work? Who was the pioneer in the matter? That was Mrs. De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u127	Absolutely. That was indeed Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u128	Mrs De Coninck was the first to introduce the principle in Antwerp. Now you're kicking the crap out of me. However, it was first introduced in Antwerp by your party member. It was a good measure that helped a lot of people to work afterwards, first through the OCMW and then through the flow to regular work. That is also what we are doing, not only for wage-earners but also for the unemployed, through a path of guidance. You must not stigmatize the principle by saying that it is a punishment. If anyone is trying to stigmatize those involved, it is you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u129	Oh, come on. Mrs Lanjri, thank you for giving the floor to Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u130	Mr President, I really cannot understand why CD&V, which should normally have a left wing, which I think is really missing, wants to apply the German model here in Belgium in such a way, with a dogma that says that the more the unemployed are being hunted, the more jobs will be created. How can you continue with that logic? When 1 000 people are looking for work and you have 900 jobs at your disposal, there are 100 unemployed. After all, 1 000 minus 900 is equal to 100. What you want to do now is oblige people to do social work twice a week. Such a measure in Germany has led to real jobs being replaced by such fake jobs. It is time for the debate to take place in Belgium. What people want is a real job. If you want to get the unemployed out of unemployment, give them a real job. However, stop believing that the hunt for the unemployed will create jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u131	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, you have just referred to the banking crisis as the source of all evil. I share your indignation to a large extent. The reckless behaviour of a number of banks at the time is unacceptable. This also applies particularly to Dexia, and in this respect you may, in part, be able to ask questions of directors such as Patrick Janssens, Frank Beke and Elio Di Rupo. It must be said that this banking crisis has placed our country with a number of additional challenges, budgetary and debt challenges. Those challenges were greater for us than for other countries, not because the banking crisis has put our budget in such great difficulty, but because those problems existed before. Our budgetary path and our debt were already problematic before the banking crisis. That EUR 300 billion debt was there before.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u132	I'd like facts, Mr. Dedecker. The debt ratio has fallen to 2007. Since 2007, since the economic crisis, she has risen back. You should check the statistics. By the way, the rate of debt has fallen every time there were socialists in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u133	Mrs. Temmerman, you might say that the debt rate has dropped a lot...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u134	I guess I'm right.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u135	...but we come from a huge debt mountain. In the past, a politician once again stated that he did not know where that debt had come from and he thought that debt would eventually go away on its own.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u136	Well, among socialists, the debt has fallen, Mr Dedecker, and it has risen back since 2007.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u137	Let Mr Dedecker make his point.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u138	Mrs Temmerman, you forget that this debt was also built up by socialists. That debt is slowing us down today in taking the necessary measures. Despite this debt, our government will take measures to improve competitiveness, to improve public finances (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u139	Yeah, on the hood of ordinary families. You are right: the government will take action on the roof of ordinary families.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u140	Mrs De Coninck wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u141	I know that there is an unwritten rule that an ex-minister does not take the floor about his competence, and I want to respect that. But for the record, Mrs Lanjri, you referred to my activities as OCMW chairman in Antwerp and the activation policy. I stand by that and I feel that helping people get a job is the finality of activation. If one has a job, one is integrated into our society. One can be for or against that, but it's just a determination. I think there are enough instruments like Article 60, but I hear that they want to abolish it and that they also want to abolish OMCWs. There are enough tools to help people achieve that positive objective, based on a positive dynamic, and that can also be voluntary work. But what I absolutely oppose is that at least 6 500 people will first be put on the street, after which they will be forced to do a little community service for their benefit. That is actually even worse than in Germany, because there they created mini-jobs, which were still paid a little bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u142	Mr President, I assume that we will still have the opportunity to discuss the Community service in detail. However, I would like to eliminate a number of rumours on which even researchers base themselves. If you have read the coalition chord on page 11 of the printed version "CD&V" you may also use "CD&V," then there is nothing in two days' time. It is only expressly stated that the Government will amend the unemployment regulation in relation to the job seeker after having been seeking employment for more than two years in order to provide benefits to society while maintaining his or her right to unemployment benefit and to complete training in a bottleneck profession or business placements. I believe that this passage will allow us to introduce Community services in a sensible way. We'll discuss that as well. Researchers and others send rumors into the world as if we were to abolish the OCMWs. I do not know where you read that in the coalition agreement, but I hope that we can discuss this in a correct way and that we can also give text and explanation, in order to resolve certain concerns that you have.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u143	Mr President, I would like to comment on the index jump. Apart from Patrick Dewael, I am the only one in the hemisphere who has experienced the period in which the socialists were here in the opposition and fought radical opposition to recovery policy. Laurette Onkelinx's father was there, by the way. André Cools was still here at the time, as was Mr Willockx. It's been a long time. Mrs Detiège, in the 1980s we also had a problem of competitiveness, which was much greater than it is today. Then we had a wage handicap of 15% compared to other countries, now that is 5 %. We are doing this now because, if we do not break the trend of competitiveness, we will not succeed in creating jobs. Mr Bonte, you are mostly quoting economists. I will not quote Mr De Grauwe, because he tells us something different every day. Mr Calvo, you should read the articles by Mr Kings, a labor economist from Leuven, one of the most renowned economists. This is not about someone with a centre-left or centre-right label, but about someone doing research on the labour market. He has said several times that jobs are not automatically created by index jumping and restoring competitiveness, but that there is the potential to create tens of thousands of jobs in the economy in the coming years. Without competitiveness, it is not possible not only to safeguard employment but also to increase it in the future. If you want to quote people, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialists, to include Mr Willockx's statements from that chair and from Father Onkelinx's comments on the index jumps in the 1980s. Now economists conclude it was a trend break. I am sure that will be the case now.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u144	Mr Van Rompuy, I will not venture to interpret what was said at that time. I just hope that the index jump will not be a prelude to what was then, namely that one should look at how to correct things by proxy. Mr Peeters, I'm a little confused after your reply. You stated that there is no mention of community service for two half days in the government agreement. I have here page 14 of the coalition agreement for me. Let me quote: "The definition of appropriate employment will be adapted to take more account of the competences of jobseekers... A federal framework is being established for the establishment of a community service... for the long-term unemployed. The Community service shall consist of two half days a week." That's literally what it says. So I do not know which version you have read and which version I have before me. I'd like to see that cleared up. In any event, it states that the regions will be given the opportunity to suspend the long-term unemployed who refuse to provide a Community service. This is what it says: and will be able to suspend them. I am absolutely in favour of activation, like most people here, but I am opposed to someone's doping money being dependent on an employee, perhaps in some OCMW, who will decide which community service he will have to do when, if he does not want to lose his cap. That is what the coalition agreement says. Minister, I do not know which text you are referring to, but I quote literally. There is, however, Community service for two days a week, which will be compulsory.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u145	Mr Bonte, for the sake of clarity, what you are quoting is correct, but the measure fits perfectly into a path to work. On the basis of what has happened in the past, this is being continued, and in this way we can help job seekers to get to work faster. That's the idea. Your quote is correct and I quoted it from page 11, both must be read together. The most important thing, however, is that we do so in order to guide job seekers along a path to a job.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u146	Mr President, I am pleased that Minister Peeters has already given rise to one sp.a. rumor, and I would like to get another sp.a. rumor out of the world. Mrs De Coninck, you referred to an unwritten rule about your previous position, there is another unwritten rule in Parliament, namely that lying the verb is not taken too quickly in the mouth. So I am simply saying that you are mistaken and that it is not really so difficult not to be mistaken, because on page 37 it is clear that it is not the intention of the government to abolish the OCMWFs. On the contrary, it says "and I'm just quoting," so it's really not so hard not to be mistaken........................................................................................................................................................................................... The government recognises these OCMWs and local authorities in their role as director of poverty policy." The government will therefore continue to ensure the support of the OCMWFs. Isn't it true? Tiens, I have another version, it's not the CD&V version, it's the N-VA version, the government version, the collective version of the majority, but you apparently have another version. I would like to say a few words about abolishing the OCMWFs. You are probably referring to the Flemish belief in further implementing the integration of city and OCMWFs, which is an institutional choice, a rational choice that the socialists have never dared to take out of power horniness. It is a rational choice to allow cities and municipalities to breathe budgetarily. That is simply an economic saving measure so that an OCMW chairman becomes a fully-fledged vessel. The start has already been made. That is a purely institutional choice. Page 37 confirms that the OCMWFs will be respected and strengthened in their role. I hope this rumor is over, Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u147	Mr President, I recall from the debate that CD&V needs a lot of explanation to make the curves and the index jump digestible. Mrs Smeyers, your last reaction shows that the government is taking economic measures against people who are in a very difficult situation and who are at the bottom of society. For you, these are figures, which are appropriately inserted into the whole. The OCMW will be merged with the city because it would be more economical, but not at all because it would be better for the OCMW client. However, that is another debate. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that I do not provoke the same emotion in the rest of my speech. However, the EUR 2.6 billion provided by the index jump was not sufficient to reduce purchasing power. The government will also increase VAT and excise duties by EUR 1.7 billion. It's not just about plastic surgery. There are other measures. To name one: anyone who wants to renovate his house of up to ten years old will also pay. You just talked about creating jobs. Then explain to me how you want to create jobs in the construction sector if you make people who want to renovate pay more. The whole construction sector was turned upside down when the measure became known. That is not a saving and it is not good for the sector. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that it will not be so difficult for someone who drives a Porsche to spend EUR 50 once in a while. However, for people who have difficulty reaching the end of the month, this will be a problem. It's actually much worse, ladies and gentlemen. In addition to the index jump and the increase in excise duties and VAT, the government also wants to spend EUR 5 billion on aircraft. You'll have to explain that to me! How will you explain that to the man who is already suffering from loss of earnings, who sees his purchasing power go down and then has to hear that this government, which has to save on everything and what, this brave government, still pays EUR 5 billion to pay aircraft with it? This too, ladies and gentlemen, is not enough. After the employee learns that he will earn less in the future, it is also said that he will have to work longer. We have just debated it: we also believe that the real time of career needs to be increased. You very much like to quote the Vandenbroucke Committee, even in your coalition agreement: almost every chapter begins with a quote from the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Vandenbroucke Commission. Of course, you are only quoting part of it: you are not quoting it entirely. You have forgotten what is also stated in the report of the Pension Committee, namely that the duration of the career is crucial. You also ignore the fact that the pension committee has made it very clear that funding must come from capital charges. We don't see that in your coalition agreement. Furthermore, the pension report also says that there must be workable work for people up to 67, something that is not obvious and will require a whole process: this is not seen in your government agreement either. Let us deal with this: in the way that some people now have to work, they will not even reach 65. How are they going to explain how to get 67? Several specialists also talk about this. I quote Marc De Vos: If we do not change the reality behind it, it is about retirement age, the higher retirement age becomes forced labour. In other words, the pension report says very clearly that there must be measures. However, I did not find it in your coalition agreement. Last but not least, you will also abolish the pension bonus. The report says: "The abolition of this pension bonus is counterproductive for an increase in career prospects." Then why do you do that? Again, you're following the pension report very partially. You follow it wherever it comes from, but where it doesn't come from, you don't follow it at all. I would like to say a few words about the electoral deception. It was also mentioned earlier. No party has said that the retirement age would be raised to 67 years. Minister, you say it will not happen during this term of office. That's not how people understood it, Mr Bacquelaine. Each party said during the election campaign that the retirement age would remain at 65 years. It was not intended to be raised to 67 years in 10, 20 or 30 years. That's a real voter deception.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u148	Mrs. Temmerman, you're referring to the report of the Pension Reforms Expert Committee. You are right that some of the issues contained in that report have been included and others have not been included. However, you are not saying that the same committee, led by Frank Vandenbroucke, says that it does not want to replace politics. Frank Vandenbroucke repeated this on the radio. The committee does make a number of recommendations. She formulated it. We ask this committee not only to give advice, but also to cooperate with the social partners. You can find this in several places in the coalition agreement. This way you can find it on page 20, for whom the CD&V version has several times. This will be the subject of intensive consultation with the social partners. We will consult regularly, including with the Expert Committee, to see how the points system, which it proposes, can be introduced, with accompanying conditions, and how an automatic system can be developed, because that is also proposed. The pension bonus was not stopped, but the pension malus that was also included in the committee report was also not stopped. However, you are not saying that this malus is being proposed. Indeed, the retirement age was one of the proposals, not a decision, which was put forward in the expert's report, but I would like to correct that for a moment, because there is a great deal of fog about the fact that the career is important. People who have worked 44 years can indeed retire early. People who have worked for 43 years should not continue to work for up to 67 years. However, that myth is sent into the world. That's not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to that electoral deception. What this government is doing in the short term is raising the real age. This government is indeed going a step further. It is developing a vision for the future and is so honest to say what will be needed by 2030. It has already been said here, your own chairman, Mrs Temmerman, admitted that in an uninhibited moment, but he added that he knows what should happen, but that he would not say it out loud, because he would not be elected next time. Well, we have the courage to say what needs to be said.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u150	Mrs van Peel, as far as your last remark is concerned, I remember a debate here in the Chamber. One of the members of your party said afterwards in the newspaper that they had some savings in mind, but that he would not quote them, because he would no longer be elected afterwards. That was a member of the N-VA. If you're quoting, be careful with your quotes. I shall come back to the Vandenbroucke report. Of course, you created the myth of the 67 years, because you call it a myth, but you launched it yourself. What you are not saying is that the chairman, Frank Vandenbroucke, has often suggested that we do it together before or during the government negotiations. However, you have done it unilaterally, which is your right. You picked out the things you thought were right. However, Mr Vandenbroucke also said that the report is a whole. There can be no cherry picking. It cannot be said that one point fits and another does not. The report is a whole and must therefore be implemented as a whole. Mrs Becq, I'm sorry, but CD&V didn't do that. She had better invited the expert committee during the negotiations. In this way, many misunderstandings would have been removed. Of course, you would have had a better coalition agreement. However, I suppose some of your partners did not want to go into that. Now let's talk about the gifts this government is giving us. The first gift is, of course, the gift for the shareholders. I repeat that this government claims that it will implement a tax shift. However, it has forgotten what its objectives are. A shift from labour to taxes on capital gains is not at all included in this measure. Gifts go elsewhere. They go to the shareholders, who do not have to contribute. They do not go to the families, who do have to contribute. They go to the great earners, who will not know the difference. They do not go to the workers whose wages will fall. Last but not least, they go to the fraudsters, who will be able to do whatever they want. They do not go to the elderly, who will even miss their pension bonus. This tax shift will increase inequality in this country. We have read an article today which states that equality in Belgium is not so bad, even in relation to the world. However, in contrast to the equality we now have, there are no major inequalities in Belgium, those forms of inequality will increase. The forms of inequality will certainly increase. During the negotiations, CD&V promised to win a left-wing trophy. Colleagues, the trophy that has won CD&V, is a trophy of this order of magnitude (Show trophy). That's the size of the trophy that brought in CD&V. I'll give it to Mr. Beke or someone else later. Mr. Beke, you can put him on the closet. That's your left trophy. Members of CD&V and also members of the N-VA, it is strange that even Ronald Reagan, who was not directly a left-wing comrade, has introduced a 28 % power tax under his administration. Only then can it be realized how small the gift is, how small the tax shift is and how small your triumph is, which you carry here. Now, as I said earlier, I want to talk about the fraudsters. The previous government has really put the fight against fraud on the map, and that has raised EUR 1.8 billion in three years. This government states in its declaration that the proceeds from the fight against fraud will amount to 250 million over five years. This 1.8 billion euros over three years stands against 250 million euros over five years. The fraudsters will be restored by you. You will check the auditors, rather than the fraudsters. Congratulations, CD&V, well done. But still, the power of change doesn't stop. This also extends the opening time of the nuclear power plants. Once again, you are giving a very nice gift to a multinational company, which will now be free to raise prices and, above all, to maintain the monopoly. Much worse is that you deny that nuclear energy is a problem today. I hope it does not occur, but we will have to prepare ourselves for an accident that might happen, because nuclear energy is failing in our country. However, you are focusing on nuclear energy, because you are extending the opening-up of nuclear power stations by ten years. Understand who can understand. It is a nice gift, because that decision will certainly be welcomed in Paris, perhaps even on champagne. Congratulations again, ladies and gentlemen of this government and of the majority parties. Quietly, I come to the formulation of my conclusions. This coalition agreement is a battlefield of broken promises. The N-VA's V-plan amounts to a major loss plan for the families. In order to conceal the fact that the N-VA has nothing to offer in the Community area, social degradation is now being fully exploited. How CD&V can endure that and play in that game is still a question. I wonder what awaits us with a prime minister who is not on Rue de la Loi 16, but actually on the Clean Level elsewhere in this country. You've got to dare! Our economic philosophy, it sounds like Open Vld, one of oxygen for the economy and for the working man, and this while economist after economist, body after body OECD, Europe, everyone says that hard savings are now bad. We need oxygen in the economy, and yet you are making these hard savings, while it is very clearly shown that this is currently damaging for the future. We'll see, but you'll have to have the courage to put it that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u151	Mrs Temmerman, do you agree or do you not agree with the fact that this government is moving the balance in time towards 2018, precisely for the reasons you just indicated? We are leaving that strict budgetary path in order to achieve that strict balance, and we are putting it on hold for a few years. What we do with the time we buy with it is effectively making an effort for companies and a tax effort for those who work. I will not go back to that. However, this will enable you to combine, on the one hand, what is most necessary in our country, namely to restore competitiveness, and, on the other hand, to preserve the purchasing power of citizens. I think these are two factors which are good for the economy. I have a second question if you agree with the extension of that growth path. When listening to your speech, there must be something of my heart. How the hell are you going to create jobs if you have to maintain an economy that lacks competitiveness and where we have seen in recent months and years that a lot of companies have left our country and that many potential investors are not even looking at Belgium anymore? That's creating jobs. Sometimes I wonder what's most important to you: that you don't come to the unemployed, that you do some kind of infusion, or that people say that creating a job and offering people makes them resilient. I call that real social policy. If people have a job, it's empowerment, and I'm in favour of that. When I hear certain socialists, I sometimes get the impression that people are holding on to some kind of infusion of social security, soothing conscience. Then perhaps you can look in the mirror, but then we have an army of unemployed people, and that is where I do not understand the essence of your speech. What we are doing is what has been happening for years in many of the countries around us, and these are all economies that have become much more resilient. There is one exception, particularly France, and I will come back to that later. I am not convinced that Mr Hollande's meetings will bring great success to the PS in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u152	In addition, Mrs Temmerman, I would like to ask what the meaning of the concept of solidarity is for the socialists, if you are constantly attacking measures in which the working people are in solidarity with those who do not yet have a job. That is a solidarity on which you seem less concerned than other forms of solidarity. You also give the impression that the whole of economic science would agree on the recipes you are putting forward here. Of course, that is absolutely not true. I would like to ask you the question in this debate about your proposals. Maybe you'll bring us some relief, even though that was a little disappointing earlier. What are your suggestions? Are you really proposing keynesian measures to postpone the correction of government deficits in order to give so-called impetus to the economy? What economists agree on is that such recipes in a small, open economy like ours cause so much slackness that they are completely pointless.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u153	Mr President, I would like to respond to what Mr De Roover says. Mr De Roover, look at the policy pursued in three Western economic blocs, the EU, the US and Japan. I note that the situation in Europe is many times worse than in Japan and the US. These two countries currently have a growth rate of about 3%. In Europe we are at 0 %. Do you know who's responsible for that? This is the responsibility of the various governments, the European Commission in the lead, who have applied the neoliberal recipes of anti-crisis policy, namely saving, saving, saving and not investing. If you want us to get out of trouble, let us follow what Obama in the US and Abe have proposed in Japan, in particular a re-launch policy. If you are doing a tax shift, which may and should also be intended for us to reduce the burden on labour, then go find the compensation for it by capital, at the 1% or 10% richest in this country that only raises their money. Give some oxygen to ordinary families and middle income families who spend what they get and thus turn the engine of the economy. Please, face the truth!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u154	I did not intend to intervene again because it is apparently almost lunchtime, but Mr De Roover and Mr Dewael's speeches do deserve an answer. What has been suggested may apply to other groups but not to ours. It has been suggested that the opposition would prefer...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u155	Mr Calvo, may I perhaps answer the question put to me by Mr Dewael?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u156	I have no ambition whatsoever to become a member of your group. I know you're strong enough to answer for yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u157	Whew. I'm sorry, I thought you'd answer in my place.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u158	Definitely not. I didn't mean to. We are very united, but we should not exaggerate. But Mr Dewael's speech deserves an answer. To be honest, I do not accept the suggestion that our group would prefer people to live on a permanent basis on benefits or that we should make a plea for the permanent infusion. That was what Mr Dewael was suggesting just now. That certainly does not apply to our group. It is precisely because we believe in the emancipatory power of a real job, not of a mini-job, not of two half days of community service, Mr Peeters, that we would have liked to see a different shift of burdens. The economic debate, Mr De Roover, is not neutral. You look at society differently than I do. That's okay. But, Mr De Roover, there is a broad consensus that if we want to reduce the burden on labour, this must be targeted. Do that with a focus, do that for the lowest and middle incomes, where that produces the most jobs and where that gives the most purchasing power. There's a consensus on that. If job creation was really close to your heart, you should have registered a targeted reduction in charges in your coalition agreement, rather than a linear reduction in charges.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u159	Mr van der Maelen, you have not listened to my speech. After all, I have said that everyone agrees that in a small open economy, keynesian measures only lead to the draining of the resources we use. You are replying with examples from the United States, the European Union and Japan. It would be interesting if you knew that we are not here in the European Parliament, not in the US Congress, and not in the Japanese Chamber. This is the Belgian Chamber of Representatives. It would therefore be very useful if you were to propose measures which would be useful here.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u160	Mr President, I knew Mr Calvo was going to give my answer, so I can only repeat it. A little together, huh? Mr Dewael, I am largely in agreement with what you are saying. The catch, however, is who will finance it. That's where the problem is. You're funding it in front of ordinary people and families. We finance it with a serious tax shift and with the fight against fraud. A tax shift of which almost all the world says, among other things, the OECD, the National Bank and the many people you have heard during the committee on this matter, that taxes on capital gains in Belgium are far too low. Compared to the other countries, we are coming all the way behind. You take the figure. Absolutely, Mr Dewael, that's why we're asking for that tax shift. We also want the burden on wages to go down, only we want to finance it with taxes on capital gains, and that is the big difference. That is what the OECD says, as the National Bank says, where your own financial service says there is a very large margin. According to the OECD, again, Mr Dewael, I have the graph here at "We're on the last four, five." Luxembourg even precedes us, even Switzerland. So saying there's no margin there isn't right. Mr De Roover, that is the solidarity we are asking for. You are asking for solidarity from people who are already struggling. You say, "Tomorrow, tomorrow, index." We ask for solidarity from people who are better off, from people who can give it and, once again, from the OECD statistics, from the National Bank to prove that this is the way it can be done, and there is the big difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u161	Mrs Temmerman, I have the impression that you are actually setting up the unemployed against the working population.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u162	I'm talking about a tax shift, Mr De Roover. I have not spoken at all about unemployed people and I have indeed forgotten answers to the question about jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u163	The President gave me the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u164	That's true, with my apologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u165	Accepted. You said in response to me, to my intervention in relation to solidarity. And I repeat what I was trying to say earlier, there is a possibility of solidarity between working people who are making a certain possible effort to ensure that non-working people get a job. That is a solidarity which we attach great importance to.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u166	Mr De Roover, you are really at the wrong place if you want to teach socialists something about solidarity. Perhaps I could explain to you in the coffee room what solidarity is. What is not solidarity, Mr De Roover, you are now obliging me to say again. That is not solidarity with those who profit from their shares without doing anything about it. Again, 1% or 1.5 % of the population would suffer. That is the solidarity we want, not the solidarity you propose. Mr President, I am trying to conclude. It is clear that the government is giving a different ideological interpretation of its work than we would. That is perfectly legitimate, and we would do the same. I just want to make it very clear that that is not our ideology. What Mr De Roover said, solidarity, that is what we want. This solidarity must come from the people who are wealthy in relation to the people who are struggling. The way you deal with society is a cold way. I will repeat what I said at the beginning. A phrase from your coalition agreement clearly shows that you are cataloging homeless people and people in extreme poverty in terms of security. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me chills. That's a bit of a symbol for the whole government and everything that has to do with it. The government has taken a selfie, looks at itself and not at who's around them. Well, I'm going for the group photo. We're all going for the group photo. We ask that the reforms that are needed and the cuts that need to be made, not the ones that are already working hard, but the efforts made by those who are able to bear the heavy burdens, should not come to the fore. We are asking for solidarity there. Some of you have already said, even here in the Chamber, that it is hoped that the Socialists will not be here for a long time, not now, not tomorrow, not in five years, and not in ten years. Well, I have bad news for them. We'll be here every day. With fire and passion we will show what society you have in mind, who deceives you and who rewards you. We will also offer alternatives to how things can be different, with a society where everyone is moving forward and not just the happy few you are rewarding now. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we will not approve this coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u167	Mrs Temmerman, for the record, you are welcome here, preferably in the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip008x.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that there are still 12 speakers in the general section and that some 50 speakers are currently in the thematic section. So we intend to proceed late tonight. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 15 October 2014 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 15 October 2014, at 2.15 p.m.
