ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u2	You have received a draft agenda for today's sitting. You have received a draft agenda for today's sitting. Are there any comments on this? [[No.]] The agenda has therefore been adopted. Is there any comment on this? [[No]] Accordingly, the agenda was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u3	By letter dated 24 September 2014, the Head of the Prime Minister's Administration sent us a copy of the letter from the American Ambassador concerning participation in the coalition of the willing in the fight against the Islamic State. By letter dated 24 September 2014, the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff sends us a copy of the US Ambassador's letter concerning participation in the coalition of the willing in the fight against the Islamic State.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u4	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Denis Ducarme, Georges Dallemagne, Veli Yüksel, Theo Francken, Luk Van Biesen, Stéphane Crusnière, Alain Top
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u5	The text adopted by the joint committees is the basis for discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (305/2) The text adopted by the combined committees serves as a basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (305/2) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, following a first joint meeting of the External Relations and Defence Committees held on 18 September 2014, which allowed an exchange of views with Ministers Reynders and De Crem on the International Conference on Iraq on 15 September 2014 in Paris, these same committees met together again on 24 September 2014 for an exchange of views on the situation in Iraq, following which a motion for a resolution on the situation in Iraq and Belgium's participation in the international coalition against the IS was tabled by Messrs. Ducrame, Dallemagne, Yüksel, Franken, Van Biesen, Crusnière and Top. In his presentation, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and European Affairs stressed the barbarity of the acts committed and the imperative to take action, not only at the military level but also at the political, diplomatic and humanitarian levels. Mr Reynders also said that the UN Security Council met at ministerial level on 19 September 2014 and that emphasis was placed on the legal and political legitimacy of international action. This legitimacy is indisputable given the demand of the Iraqi Government and the broad support that this action enjoys, particularly from the Arab countries in the region. Iran was represented at the ministerial level, a step forward from the Paris Summit of 15 September. The Minister noted that additional humanitarian action will be required. With regard to the situation in Syria, the Minister also stated that Belgium has always refused to deliver weapons to the Syrian opposition because it is impossible to know who will be the end user. However, he stressed that Syria should not be neglected in the current debate for humanitarian reasons, but also because the pacification of Syria was an indispensable condition for Iraqi stability in the medium and long term. At the same time, consideration must also be given at European level with a view to draining the sources of financing for terrorist groups in the region. The Deputy Prime Minister also welcomed the convening of a UN Security Council meeting on the Foreign Fighters issue on 24 September 2014. The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence was able to convey to us the formal request of the United States for Belgium's participation in the coalition against IS and the decision of the limited cabinet to sign its agreement on the dispatch of six F-16s and the installation of support personnel and the necessary facilities in a friendly country for missions over Iraqi territory for an initial period of one month. It is specified that an evaluation of the operations and the decision-making process will then be carried out with a view to a possible extension. The cost of this operation is EUR 3.8 million per month. Mr. De Crem also indicated that this commitment excludes the dispatch of troops to Iraq. Mr. De Crem further indicated that specific humanitarian measures would be provided by Belgium in support of local populations. Finally, Mr. De Crem indicated the strengthening of security measures and means in Belgium to anticipate an increase in the internal threat as a result of Belgian participation in this international coalition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to report briefly on the meeting of the United Commissions for External Relations and Defence on Wednesday 24 September. Mr Peter Luykx pointed out that N-VA felt that Belgian participation in a military intervention was necessary. He also wants to lance for the budgets for the Defense Department. Only in this way will we ensure that we remain a reliable international partner. Mr Luykx said that security services should be given the necessary resources to ensure internal security. It also points out that humanitarian, social and diplomatic support to the region remains necessary. This opinion is shared by all the political groups present which are then discussed. Mr Stéphane Crusnière of PS said that there was a need for a clear framework. Intervention must be clearly defined in terms of time and territory. He also says that our military must under no circumstances be used for ground operations. Mr Veli Yüksel of CD&V regretted that there was no UN mandate for this intervention. However, he says that Iraq's demand for intervention creates legitimacy. He emphasizes that this is not a war between the West and Islam. Prevention must also be pursued in order to remove the breeding ground for radicalisation. Mr Denis Ducarme of MR stated that the proposed resolution was supported by a large number of political groups. The resolution expresses a wide range of political, diplomatic, financial, economic, humanitarian and social concerns. Mr Ducarme stressed that IS was a threat not only to the stability of the region but also to those of the European countries. It also stresses the participation of the member states of the Arab League in the international coalition. Mrs Nele Lijnen van Open Vld says that non-action in this conflict is not an option. In addition, it states that a solution must be found to the problem in Syria. However, this issue is not on the agenda as long as there is no question of the Syrian government or as long as there is no UN mandate. It also questions the attitude of some committee members. Some are now calling for military intervention with F-16 p.a., but are at the same time opposed to a renewal operation of our fighter planes. Mr Alain Top of sp.a stated that the mission should be limited in time. In the short term, there is a need for an evaluation of intervention. He also asks questions about the deployment of the Belgian military. Mr Benoit Hellings and Mr Wouter De Vriendt of Ecolo-Groen wondered what the objective of the future Belgian intervention was. They also have questions about when this action will be terminated. Mr Hellings and Mr De Vriendt called for a regional peace conference to be convened, including Russia and Iran. Mr De Vriendt says that a country such as Russia must be able to play a role in finding a sustainable solution. He also indicated that the financial channels between ISIS and countries such as Turkey, Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States should be dismantled. Mr. Georges Dallemagne from cdH says it's our duty to intervene. He also reports that an air operation must, however, go hand in hand with the support of local ground forces. In this context, the Kurdish peshmerga fighters are mentioned. Mr Theo Francken of N-VA stressed that his party was sorry that no Special Forces were sent to support and train Iraqi soldiers. However, this support is very important. Mr Francken said that he understood why priority should be given to action in Iraq. However, he has practical reservations in this regard, as the activities of IS are mainly taking place in the border area between Iraq and Syria. Mr President, the motion for a resolution was adopted by the committee after amendment, emphasising international law and human rights, with the exception of Ecolo-Green abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u8	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be dealt with often enough: a political, sustainable solution is the most important one for the situation in Syria and Iraq. Unfortunately, according to our group, the military aspect is absolutely necessary. It is important to intervene there in the short term to stop the horror. It is, as Herman Van Rompuy said, about the choice between civilization and barbarism. We also have to think about internal security, unfortunately. We must be careful and anticipate carefully. Intervening in a war in which more than 350 of our inhabitants are active and fighting on the side that we are about to bomb is, of course, a very dangerous thing. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the budgetary aspect. Mr De Roover will be speaking on behalf of our group on the humanitarian aspect. In this context, I would remind you of the plea of a Jezidian Member of Parliament, whom we certainly have ears for. The situation today is reminiscent of the situation in 2011 when the government was also in current affairs and we decided in plenary under the same guise to launch an operation in Libya, because there were serious atrocities committed by Gaddafi. To this end, a motion for a resolution was adopted on a broad basis. Today there is again an almost unanimous majority, except for Ecolo-Green and PVDA-PTB. At the time, we met the principle of the Responsibility to Protect. You may remember that Gaddafi was at the gates of Benghazi, the stronghold he had said if he could take the city... (...) chasing the blade. At that time, President Sarkozy was sitting together with the UN Security Council and decided to start the operation. Then, a few days later, we pledged our support, together with an international coalition. There was a military action back then. I repeat this once again, also in response to the PVDA's opinion document. Mr Hedebouw, I understand that you want to stand up to our opinion. That's your right. However, if you quote me, I would like you to do the right thing. I said that the military aspect of the operation in Libya was a success story. We hit 98 percent of the target. Do you know the number of civilian casualties we've caused? That's why I'm reading all sorts of things you're writing. Today, about a hundred people are arguing in front of the Ministry of Defense. You refer to what is happening now as "ideological blinding" because civilian casualties will occur. Now, do you know how many civilian casualties the Belgian army has caused in the operation that took several months in Libya? Zero civilian casualties have been reported. Whatever you say about that, it's not right. There have been zero civilian casualties, and you can check with the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Colleagues, is the proposed operation, that international engagement within the coalition, ideological blindness? I don't think so. Last time we acted under UN mandate, this time we are addressing an explicit question from the Iraqi Government. The Iraqi Government has only just been re-established and hopefully can bring stability again. Hopefully that government will be able to properly involve Sunnis in the government. There was a great deal of discontent about this. The previous Iraqi government paid far too little attention to Sunnis' besognes. So let us hope, under international pressure, with the support of the United States and of Europe, that Iraq will finally have a stable government that can meet the demands of the various population groups in Iraq. Is it ideological blindness to act now against atrocities, beheadings, mass rapes, trafficking in the human market? I don't think so. What the hell does that have to do with ideological blindness? In my opinion, it would be ideological blindness if we did the opposite. In the motion for a resolution, we are restricting ourselves to the operation in Iraq. Of course, that is understandable, as a clear question has come from the Iraqi Government. There won't be any from the Syrian government. It is clear that Syria is an even bigger wasp's nest than Iraq. Of course, one must be careful what one says. It can be said that the border between Iraq and Syria cannot be crossed. This will be particularly difficult to achieve in practice. I checked with military experts. If one flies with an F-16 at a speed of a thousand kilometers per hour, so to speak, while the largest movements of troops in the border area are taking place, then one must proceed pragmatically. I can only ask you, Minister, to instruct the general staff to be pragmatic in the operations we are going to carry out there. The border is very vague there. There are two failed states, there is no border control at all, there is nothing anymore, there are constant movements of troops around the border, so be flexible in that respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u9	Mr Francken, I do not know if I understand you correctly. You are a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u10	Mr De Vriendt interrupted Mr Francken in view of his candidacy for the Green Presidency.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u11	Minister, I had noticed that Mr De Vriendt wanted to interrupt Mr Francken and that he had no objection. I am in favour of a lively debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u12	I wish you every success in the Presidential elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u13	I'll come back to the essence. This is an important meeting: we decide on war or peace here. Mr Francken, you are a federal Member of Parliament. Have you called here for pragmatism and for the Belgian operation not necessarily to be limited to Iraq, but to regard the border between Iraq and Syria as not too fixed, leaving intervention in Syria as an option? If you do so, as a federal MEP, you will be calling here to violate international law. Intervention in Syria currently has no mandate from the United Nations and is not covered in any way by international law. If you call here, as a Member of Parliament, to violate international law, that is the best proof, Mr Francken, that you want war above all else and not a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u14	Mr De Vriendt, you may not have listened carefully, and I will clarify it. The motion for a resolution is limited to Iraq, but I am asking for some pragmatism. Suppose there is an operation going on with our F-16s, that the troop movement of ISIS goes up and down the border and that the red card holder, the central commando at NATO or in the United States, gives the green light for that operation, then it should not be a game on the border. Then it must not be that IS is safe in one place and does what it wants, while it can suddenly be bombed ten meters across the border. If you insist on that aspect of international law, I tell you that you will never be given a mandate from the UN Security Council to act in Syria, you will never get it. Unlike you, we will not be held hostage by Russia and Putin. Look at what's going on in Ukraine. Putin is holding the UN Security Council hostage, Putin is constantly vetoing and that UN Security Council has been politically undermined, that is the problem. If it means that we can only engage internationally with a mandate from the United Nations, while Putin is constantly drawing the red card and vetoing it, then that is no longer useful for us. It is not the intention of international law that one person constantly says to the West that it should not intervene anywhere, because he does not like it. Mr De Vriendt, we do indeed have a different view of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u15	It is clear to us: we should not look at 10 metres more or less at the border between Iraq and Syria. I would like to formally ask those who have tabled and signed the motion for a resolution, particularly on the Flemish side CD&V, Open Vld and sp.a, whether they share that interpretation and that position of the N-VA or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u16	There must therefore be a lasting political solution. Secondly, the motion for a resolution restricts the action to one month, followed by an evaluation. It is necessary to have a proper evaluation. It is also necessary to have the Committee on Foreign Shipments meet on a weekly basis, especially at the beginning, Minister. We really need to take that initiative so that you are present on a weekly basis in committee. I will also be submitting this question on behalf of my group in a moment, so that we do know where and where. I hear that one can leave on Monday, perhaps already next weekend or only Wednesday. When will the first operations take place? Are there first reconnaissance operations or will bombs be carried out immediately? What exactly is the framework? Minister, I hope that you will be able to give sufficient time in your agenda to sit with the members of the Committee on Foreign Shipments every week for at least a few hours in order to inform us properly about the state of affairs and what is happening there. In a month's time, we'll make that evaluation. I read in the meantime that it is said that the operation will take three months, but, as you know, a month is very short for such operations. Thirdly, the reporter mentioned the Special Forces. The operation in Libya was a successful military operation for our country, but the political story after that was a disaster. Libya is a safe haven for terrorists, human smugglers, arms dealers, you name it. We could actually expect something like that. One of the reasons for this is the opening of Gaddafi arms depots without protection. They didn't want boots on the ground there. There were no Western troops deployed there to at least control arms depots and key points in the country, to help empty and transfer ammunition to the West or to bring it to safety. They didn't do that. The result is that weapons have spread throughout the Maghreb and that we have known the history of Mali. The Tuaregs, who together with the terrorists are making amok, have weapons from the arms depots of Gaddafi. From the US's point of view, but also from other partners in the international coalition, it seems to me that it is an idea to have boots on the ground now, to send soldiers, especially for training and assistance. That is something we have done for years in Afghanistan, in Kunduz, with the OMLTS. It is an idea to provide training and assistance to deal with the mistakes that we have made in Libya, by not sending anyone and then determining what is happening, by sending a number of platons with the F-16 species. We are asking for this, knowing that a resolution is a compromise. We have not pushed any further, but what is not can come. When we talk about the Iraqi army, there have been several speeches in the committee on this subject, and we are talking about an army whose morale is very low at the moment. If one knows that Kirkuk was defended by thirty thousand soldiers of the Iraqi army and that two or three IS battalions took over that city in a few hours, that those soldiers all left suddenly and abandoned all the heavy weapons they had received from the American army, then that is a good indication of how poorly trained the Iraqi army is still. The Americans have already pumped in more than 25 billion dollars, but when those soldiers see the enemy, they leave immediately. I think it is necessary to train and guide the Iraqi and Kurdish forces sufficiently, if not, the battle will never be won. The battle will be won by them, not by us. Let's be clear about that, too. They will have to do it in practice, not us. We can give them battle support from the air, but that's all. The Iraqi and Kurdish forces will have to face the battlefield at last. Thirdly, internal security. We must be aware of the importance of this decision. Many people wonder if this will have consequences. If we go to that region with the F-16 species, knowing that there are a three hundred and fifty Belgian Syrian warriors there are now a little less, because some have already returned, are we not afraid of attacks? Isn't there a good chance that plans will be forged here, because they believe that Belgium will join the great enemy, the bogeyman, being the United States, and that they will come here to take any reprisals? Do you think they'll come here? That's the big question. I don't know. That risk exists today. That risk existed even before we were able to send out F-16 debt securities. Is that risk increased? It could be. We'll see. The OCAD will make a threat analysis. Several institutions in this country are full-time in making that analysis. They will decide whether or not the threat level will be increased from tomorrow or next week. That needs to be looked at. I assume that the government will also discuss this in current cases. I can only hope so. Apart from that, I believe that measures against radicalisation are absolutely necessary in the very short term. These measures are being fully negotiated with the Swedish coalition partners, as you undoubtedly know. Time is running out for action. I have also read an opinion piece by Mr Hans Bonte, with whom I have also had a thorough discussion in committee, but he is not here today; he is in the United States, if I understand correctly. Time is running out, and in the next few hours and days we have to consider whether or not we should play less on the ball. Mr Minister for the Interior, Mr Wathelet, this is how we could convene the National Security Committee. Your predecessor, Mrs Milquet, has not called that committee together for more than a year and a half, which is really unimaginable. Perhaps that should be done in the short term. Who is responsible for this, Mr Wathelet, the Prime Minister or Mr Reynders? In any case, we want to analyse in the short term what measures might be taken now, and preferably as soon as possible, because urgent measures are needed. We must make our borders clear to the Syrian warriors, with what we do and do not take. Work will also have to be done on the effective implementation of the mercenary law of 1979. In doing so, we have a deterrent for those who are considering fighting in Syria. Whoever comes back from that, waits for jail time. At the moment there is no obligation, because of all the Syrian fighters who have returned, I do not think there is even one person in prison. There will be a process on Monday, and we still have to wait for the outcome. Several neighbouring countries come up with other measures and there is still much more repressive action. Repression is only one element; prevention is much more important, but then we are directly affected by the division of competence in our country, by a Community aspect, because it must include the Flemish Community, which will undoubtedly do so. In any case, we must make it clear to the Syrian warriors that these atrocities are unacceptable. Yesterday I saw a Panorama broadcast on this subject and some fighters seem to think they are playing in a video game. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I can only endorse the signing of the NATO agreement in Wales. I am pleased that Prime Minister Di Rupo, still the main PS member in our country, signed that agreement two weeks ago in Wales. The Wales Declaration is not a meaningless agreement. It was a historic summit and I do not take those words easily in my mouth. That summit was historic, because it was said for the first time in twenty years that it must be done with always saving on defence, always bringing down the defence budget. It is even symbolic, if I may say so, that in the end Prime Minister Di Rupo, of the Socialist Party, signed that agreement. Officially he said he would make reservations, but I have been informed and at no time, in any way, has there been any reservation by Prime Minister Di Rupo. He just signed it. I have the treaty here with me. It says, among other things, that it must be done with cuts on defense. There must be no more cuts in the defence budget, it must grow again and keep pace with the increase in GDP. I am convinced that, after many years of crying in the desert, a broad majority can finally be found for this purpose if even Prime Minister Di Rupo signs this international commitment, which is not frivolous. I happened to be at a reception on Thursday at the United States Embassy. The ambassador was able to tell me that she was particularly pleased that Belgium had also signed the Convention. Such an international commitment is not frivolous. I'm glad the defense is finally getting a little budget-saving. We've already given. Of all the departments, the Department of Defense applies the Moesen norm best. It does even more, according to any interpretation of the Moses standard given in recent months, by us or by others. Defense has always done more than the Moesen norm. It is the only department that has already undergone thorough reforms. That's it. That's it. I am glad that, through this international commitment, the Parti Socialist finally brings about a change.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u17	Mr Francken, I do not want to measure your speech with the chronometer, but your group has half an hour. You have announced a second speaker, while you have been at it for 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u18	Mr President, you are just too late. I made my point.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u19	So Mr. De Roover can count?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u20	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on Wednesday Belgium received a request from the United States to intervene in an international coalition to combat ISIL in Iraq. While the use of force is still a failure for diplomacy, here we find ourselves confronted with terrorists, bloody barbarians, who kill women, children, religious and ethnic minorities in the name of mad and boundless religious radicalism. As such, no amalgam can be accepted between Islam and this so-called and self-proclaimed Islamic State. To stop this inhuman barbarity, to stop these senseless massacres, a targeted and time-bound military response can be envisaged under strict conditions. Yes, my group wishes to respond positively to the call made by the Iraqi authorities to join this international solidarity movement. Because behind Iraq, it is obviously the security of this whole region on the edge of Europe that is at stake. First, we want a concrete commitment, but not a warlike logic. This will therefore have to be done within a strictly defined framework. First of all, in accordance with international law. I am thinking in particular of Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations, the request made by the Iraqi authorities and the support expressed by the countries of the region. Secondly, our scope of action should be limited to Iraqi territory. For the PS, indeed, it is out of the question that Belgium should intervene on Syrian soil where, at present, without a UN mandate, no international legitimacy can be found. Thirdly, the safety of our soldiers must remain our priority. The PS totally opposes the dispatch of Belgian combat troops to the ground and calls for all measures to be taken to ensure the anonymity of our men. Fourthly, this intervention must be limited in time. A period of one month seems to me a reasonable timing. In a month's time, we will have to carry out an evaluation of this mission. For our group, if there were to be an extension of our participation, the decision could not under any circumstances take place without this assessment of the mission and without consultation with Parliament. If we are still in day-to-day business, we will need the agreement of this Parliament. The operation will have to be followed by an evaluation of our participation before the government, whatever it may be, returns to our assembly. Let us not forget that the reaction to such crises cannot be exclusively military. We must also be part of any initiative to help the affected populations, of course, but also politically and socio-economically. No air strike in the world, however precise, can be a long-term solution. Libya or Afghanistan are sad examples. Finally, Belgium's participation in an operation in Iraq certainly cannot be at the expense of Belgium's support for major humanitarian crises such as the one we are currently experiencing with the Ebola epidemic. As you can see, our conditions are clear, precise and pragmatic. For the PS, these conditions were to be found in the motion for a resolution adopted in committee this Wednesday, which is before us in plenary today. Our vote won't be a blank. It means, of course, that information on current operations is guaranteed in our Assembly, both in camera for operational details and in public for political aspects. More information is needed if new circumstances change the nature and duration of military engagement. In addition to the logistical, humanitarian and development support that our country, Europe and the United Nations could provide, the Iraqi government will have to be as inclusive as possible beyond its communities and restore its authority throughout its territory. The fight against the war crimes perpetrated by ISIL will be just as essential, as will the investigation into the violations denounced by several NGOs when the Iraqi army resorts to bombings in densely populated areas. Our intervention in Iraq must also lead to a reflection on the fight against radicalism within our country and Europe. The threat is not virtual in us; it is real. Let us therefore remain extremely vigilant, without yielding to paranoia. As the outgoing government has embarked on this, and as Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo recalled in his statement at the special meeting of the Security Council, I hope that a sustained effort will be made in this regard, including in terms of prevention. Concrete measures must be taken in collaboration with the police, the Ocam, the Sûreté de l'Etat and the mayors. Let us take the example of the initiative taken by the City of Brussels, which consists of setting up a cell to monitor Belgians suspected of having gone to fight. Such measures should be encouraged. Finally, I will conclude by recalling that if Belgium is militarily ready to support the international community on Iraqi soil to arrest ISIL fighters, it will not do so blindly or in a banal manner. No, starting at war cannot be a triviality. No, we can't get excited about a Let's Go, as some people do. Belgium must shoulder its share in international security, but this military responsibility we assume goes hand in hand with a heavy diplomatic and political responsibility aimed at doing everything possible to stabilize the region. At the same time, our country must show that it is a partner committed to lasting peace and international law. This is undoubtedly the most perilous challenge we will face, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, if triggering a military operation is not improvised, act as a lasting vector of peace either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u22	Mr President, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when our Assembly meets, like this afternoon, to engage our military forces in operations abroad, it is always a solemn moment, a strong political act that we are carrying out with seriousness and respect. Seriously, because the situation in Iraq and throughout the Middle East is serious for the future and the strength of its constituent states, for the security of the goods and the people living there, for the lives of all those communities that have been living together for millennia and, in general, for the stability of the world. Respect, because we send our soldiers to fight fanatics without restraint or mercy, whether for civilians or opposing fighters, fanatics for whom human life is worthless. I therefore commend their commitment and their sense of duty and join in the recognition that the country owes them all. As I had the opportunity to say in committee last week, not intervening would simply be guilty of complicity with executioners massacring unarmed populations. It would be an accomplice to a crime against all the values of humanity. It would remain passive in the face of the creation, at the gates of the Mediterranean, of a fanatical state, of a kind of no-right zone, as Afghanistan has already known. Our role as politicians is to explain to our fellow citizens the reasons for our commitment. It is not an intervention against a country, a people, a religion. It is to defend our common values, those enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations where the states are determined – I quote – "to reaffirm their faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women". It is therefore not in any way part of a clash of civilizations. I do not believe in the shocks of civilizations. I am more like Comte-Sponville, when he says that the real fight is between those who are for world civilization, secular and democratic, and those who are against it. Colleagues, there is a shock between civilization and tyranny. As Elie Barnavi says, there is civilization and there is barbarism and, between the two, there is no dialogue possible. In the face of this phenomenon, we must not be angelic. Our security here on Belgian soil, the security of all our citizens, is directly threatened. As elected officials and politicians, we must maintain a language of truth because our participation in this military operation exposes our military, our territory, our compatriots abroad to the risk of reprisals. A language of truth, for among the foreign recruits of the Islamic State are a number of our fellow citizens. We must understand why the jihadist call meets such an echo with them. We must work to optimize our model of integration and the dissemination of our values. We must also engage with official Muslim authorities to deliver a clear message in order to deter those who would be tempted by this suicidal flight. We must also be able to punish with the utmost severity those who leave Syria or Iraq, those who return from these fighting and pose a threat to our security. On unmarked young people, violent jihadism probably exerts a morbid fascination that leads them to radicalization and direct action. Nemmouche, the murderer of the Jewish Museum in Brussels, is a terrible example. Those who join jihad are clearly enemies, and even traitors, to the international cause. They must be treated as such. A few times we have come across the angelism of some. The facts already make them wrong and no additional risks should be taken. This is called political responsibility. Deputy Prime Ministers, we are engaged in an international coalition, which requires diplomatic vigilance for which you have all our confidence. We regret that the European Union is no more visible and does not coordinate its efforts, both military and humanitarian. In the area of intelligence, we need greater coordination of networks. We must not abandon our will to see the progress of a true Europe of defence, humanitarian cooperation and intelligence. Iran plays a key role in this region. This country has an influence both in Gaza and in Lebanon, Syria and Iraq. This opportunity and the end of the negotiations on the transparency of Iran's nuclear programme must be seized to encourage Tehran not to play a destabilizing role but rather a positive role in Iraq. On this aspect too, Europe has a very nice diplomatic card to play. Finally, while Turkey is part of NATO, it has been negotiating its accession to the European Union since 2005. This seems to me to imply that it embraces the broad guidelines of the Union's foreign policy, where it exists. We must note, however, that Turkey sometimes maintains an ambiguous position on this issue: at the outset, support for the Syrian regime; from now on, threats to its doors with the refugees who come to its border; and, lastly, concern for Kurdish ambitions. We must have a dialogue of clarification with that country. It is also necessary with the Gulf States, which must adopt a more coherent position vis-à-vis the jihadist danger that also threatens them. Minister of Defence, in the coming days, our military will strike in Iraq against Daesh's positions. What is the purpose of war assigned to our air forces? Very clearly, we have limited our intervention to Iraq, thus respecting international law. We come to the aid of a State which requests it, in its natural right of individual or collective self-defence, as set out in Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations. However, we know very well that the conflict does not stop at the border between Iraq and Syria, even though the rear bases of the Islamic State are located in the latter country. We know that combatants can demonstrate great mobility and threaten Jordan, Lebanon and the Golann border. We do not want a mere withdrawal of the fighters of the Islamic State, but their destruction. Whether we like it or not, the fight against terrorism can only be victorious if it is delivered in all its forms. Our military action is clearly in accordance with international law, is limited to Iraqi territory and does not include ground engagement. Assessing the effects of the first few weeks of this mission will require an assessment of its impact and developments. The resolution is explicit in this regard. This war can be long and difficult. Therefore, the question of the cost of this operation is raised. If we all praise the development and professionalism of our soldiers, we must provide our armies with the human, material and financial means to carry out the tasks we assign to them. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we want to help an inclusive Iraqi government to rebuild an Iraqi society that has been living for decades the dread of dictatorship and civil wars. We want to help and help the martyred populations for their faith or ethnic origin. We believe that the Syrian people, in all its components, deserve better than the cruelty of the Assad dynasty. We want to support a Lebanese State that remains fragile. We want the Israelis and Palestinians to live in two countries at peace. In order to achieve these objectives, today we decide to use force because it alone can bend and wiped out the terrorist state. We must act to drain its sources of financing, the recruitment of its fighters and its acquisitions of modern weapons. These are the objectives set by the Paris Conference and Security Council resolution 2170. We must also strike them directly, and tomorrow we must hold them accountable to impartial justice. The MR Group will support the resolution before us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u23	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, war must never be the subject of light. The deployment of armed forces in conflict areas must always be considered. In this case, it is clear that we cannot look the other way. What is currently happening in Iraq, the advance of the terrorist movement Islamic State and the terrible crimes associated with it force us to act. To stop torture, abuse, rape, decapitation and attacks, it is now time to act. With this resolution, Belgium is supporting a coalition of about 40 countries that are beating hands to stop IS. It is not Western interference in the Middle East, but a struggle in which regional superpowers such as Iran, Turkey and Saudi Arabia also participate. The deployment of six Belgian F-16 Tunisians will make a valuable contribution to the international alliance. The Belgian military intervention will be limited to operations on Iraqi territory. The Iraqi Government itself has requested an intervention from the international community. Article 51 of the UN Charter states that assistance may be provided in such cases. My group, ladies and gentlemen, would like to express its disappointment at the fact that a UN mandate was not possible. We therefore continue to emphasise the importance of such a mandate. However, an impasse within the UN Security Council should not prevent us from asking for help in such an emergency. For Syria, ladies and gentlemen, that is different, even though we know that ISIS initially started operations from that country and that one third of its territory is in the hands of the organisation. The situation in Syria is equally distressing and the population is suffering. At the moment there is no question of intervention in Syria, but it goes without saying that we must follow the situation closely. The French sociologist Gustave Le Bon said: "To overthrow a tyranny does not mean to create freedom." With military intervention alone, ISIS will not be stopped. The causes of the advance lie too deep: frustrations of the Sunni people in Iraq who had no place in their own country and rhetoric as if the West wanted to fight against all Muslims. Of course, military intervention is only a first step. In order to effectively eliminate Islamic State and other radical organisations, peace and stability must be achieved in the region. The resolution before us also explicitly calls for the necessary efforts to be made at political, diplomatic, financial, economic, social and humanitarian level. It is crucial that every effort is made to ensure democracy in Iraq and to entrust the administration of the country to an inclusive government that respects all population groups and minorities, such as Jezidis, Sunnis, Kurds, Shiites and Christians, in the country and gives a voice in the political debate. It is up to the Foreign Minister to place these items on and keep them on the international agenda. In addition, it is essential that the financial network of IS, sponsored by oil revenues, kidnapping and bank robberies, be stopped. Our group also attaches particular importance to the humanitarian aspect of the resolution. The terror of IS has already fled millions of people to Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan, among others. These countries find it difficult to provide refugees with decent shelter, food and health care. In this area, too, international cooperation is necessary to rebuild cities and villages so that refugees can return to safety. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, since I would also like to address myself to our fellow countrymen, when our F-16 people are about to fly to Iraq to attack targets, we must also think about our backs. After all, the fight against radicalisation does not only take place at thousands of kilometres from here. It has already been suggested by some that a possible Belgian intervention could increase the threat of terrorist attacks in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, that danger is indeed not an imaginary one. That is why the resolution also calls for all the necessary measures to anticipate a possible increased threat of terrorism in our country. It is important to bear in mind that non-intervention might make the terrorist threat even greater. If the areas concerned become a free harbor where IS and other terrorist organisations can train their fighters, the consequences may not be perceptible. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it's not a far-from-my-bed show. Moreover, Belgium is already indirectly involved in the conflict. Some of our young people have already left for Syria and Iraq to fight for IS. In this sense, the problem is already with us. It will therefore be important not only to take action against a possible terrorist threat in our country and to combat the spread of the objectionable ideas by all legal means, but also to make a structural effort to counter the radicalisation of young people. Colleagues, Islamic State is a danger to the inhabitants of that region and to the whole world in the event of enlargement. Our group therefore strongly supports the resolution, because we are convinced that an intervention is necessary, because we cannot and must not close our eyes to the innumerable atrocities committed by IS in the Middle East. We can't stand on the sidelines. We must accept our responsibility to the international community. On behalf of the CD&V Group, I explicitly express our support for the resolution and I hope that colleagues from all the other groups will also support it. Mr De Vriendt and Mr Hellings, your group stated in the committee that a political road map should first be drawn up before a military intervention takes place. But what kind of road map? You are asking for a peace conference, in which the permanent members of the Security Council, in addition to the United States, Russia and China, sit together with Iran and Turkey. That is a noble thought, but getting countries around the table that have not been able to come to a joint solution since the start of the Syrian civil war is utopian and naive. The imposition of this condition for a military operation is irresponsible at human and international level. A broad coalition, a broad political consensus, will make it clear not only to the Belgians but also to our allies and to the international community that we are convinced of the importance of the mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u24	Mr De Vriendt wishes to interrupt you briefly. Of course, that interruption will go away from his speaking time!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u25	Mr Yüksel, I appreciate your serene tone, which fits in with the nature of the debate we are having here. You say that it is a noble thought to bring countries that are so closely involved in the conflict, and at the same time a naive thought. My answer is that there is no other solution than political consultation. The countries that are so involved in this conflict must sit around a diplomatic, political table, because there is no other solution. You have just noticed that we do not have a UN mandate, but a UN mandate would have been better. Do you know that there has never been any attempt to obtain a UN mandate for the operation in Iraq? We are staring blindly at the military option. It seems as if a military response is the only possible option for your party, even though it is just the political path we must follow. It wasn't even tried. Look at Libya, look at Afghanistan. If we do not take the political path, then there is simply no solution to such a conflict. That is pragmatic, that is an efficient attitude. I fear that your attitude shows exactly naivety in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u26	Mr De Vriendt, there is a question from an ally, from a government, to act. There is a consensus, a broad international consensus. You say there must be a UN mandate, or we won't do anything. Actually, you're saying we shouldn't do anything in the meantime and wait and see. I don't think that's the right way to react in an area where there are already several fireplaces. We say, of course, that in an international context, we must always seek dialogue in order to find a political solution. The resolution also stresses the importance of continuing to seek international political support. In the meantime, you're suggesting we don't do anything and just wait and see. I don't think that's the right answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u27	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this is my first time in the Chamber. In addition, for Open Vld, a woman speaks. At 3 150 kilometres from Parliament and 1 000 kilometres from the eastern border of the European Union, the caliphate of the so-called Islamic State begins. Only Turkey separates the European Union from the region under the control of IS and in that area there is oppression, hatred of women, horror and fear. The war crimes attributed to IS by the United Nations are numerous. The UN accuses, among other things, of the use of children in the fight, of the hostageage of civilians, often women and children, of amputations, of stoning and scourges, of disappearances and of public executions involving children and showing the corpses of victims for days. In the meantime, these practices are part of everyday reality, as the UN says. Men are flogged because they smoke, carry alcohol, work during prayer or not fast during Ramadan. For women, the horror doesn't stop there, there are hundreds, thousands of stories of kidnapping, rape, compulsory marriages and sexual slavery. To escape this, women often take their lives, often women who are less than 20 years old. In an Italian newspaper Mayat testified to the horror that happened to herself and many other women. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to read her testimony today. This testimony has taken hold of me enormously, and it is why I am standing here today. They treat us like slaves. The men beat us and threaten us if we dare to resist. Sometimes I hope they hit me so hard I die. If this torture ever comes to an end, my life will always be marked by the horror that has taken place. My only hope is that the peshmerga will free us. I know the Americans are bombing, I want them to hurry and drive IS away, because I don't know how much longer I'll last. Amnesty International also speaks of ethnic cleansing on a historical scale, in northern Iraq, with real massacres and large-scale kidnapping of citizens belonging to ethnic or religious minorities: Jezidis, Assyrian Christians, Turkmen shia and druzen. Dutch scientists even spoke in an open letter last month about genocide, and together with Amnesty International and many others are calling for the perpetrators of this terrible violence to be punished and for the protection of the people who are the victims of the attacks of IS. We hear the same noise with Zeid Raolad Al-Hussein, the new UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. On 8 September, in Geneva, he called on the international community to end the conflict and to protect women and minorities from ISIS, which is intended to cause a house of blood. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Open Vld, our country must answer that question. We shall vote for the resolution before us today with conviction. Belgium must assume its responsibility in the international coalition that must stop the advance of IS, for three reasons. Firstly, because it is morally unacceptable that an entire population should perish from the barbaric practices used by ISIS, without taking any action against them. We have a duty to protect them and to free them from this horrible monster. Secondly, because of the danger of war for the whole region. IS not only threatens the population in the areas it occupies today, but can also turn countries such as Jordan, Lebanon and Saudi Arabia into war zones, with all the consequences. Thirdly, the fight against IS is a fight against global terrorism. IS wants to make the so-called Caliphate a free haven from which fanatics can quietly prepare terrorist attacks in Western or other free societies. We can't be naive. The existence of such an area is also a direct threat to our society. My message today, ladies and gentlemen, is that we must not treat war lightly. It is not a question of going to war with the boots with great will. It is about using necessary and targeted violence to stop the terror. Colleagues of Ecolo-Groen, I do not understand. In the debate on Libya, you agreed that we should fight against bloodshed in Libya, without an explicit reference to a political road map. And today you are tabling an amendment, which is interesting but very detailed and therefore unrealistic to ask from a country like Belgium. It almost seems that you are submitting this in the hope that it will not be adopted, so that you do not have to take a stand today. I have read the debate on Libya well. I quote Ecolo-Green from this: 'It is our duty to protect the people.' Mr De Vriendt, you said that at the time. Now, what has happened to the duty of Ecolo-Green to protect the Iraqi people, the minorities in Iraq, from this barbarity of IS?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u28	Mrs. Lijnen, deciding whether or not to go to war is not black and white. If the decision to take part in a military intervention is to be taken, each case must be properly assessed. I am surprised that you are not able to make that historic exercise and that you are able to align the intervention in Libya with what is now happening in Iraq, and when I hear Mr Francken in Syria as well. There are differences. I am sorry for the intellectual level of this debate that I have to remind you of these differences. Do we have a UN mandate in Iraq?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u29	... barbarism and international law that allows us to intervene, Mr De Vriendt, and you know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u30	We do not have a UN mandate in Iraq. We did have one in Libya. All the neighbouring countries agreed at the time of the intervention in Libya. That was important for the support. That is not the case here. Look at Turkey. Look at Saudi Arabia, which still finances the so-called Islamic State. We're not gonna do that, but we're gonna bomb them. The Gaddafi regime was identifiable. The humanitarian need was very pressing. They stood at the gates of Benghazi and the rebel groups we supported at the time were credible at that time. You know that very well. Who are our allies now? Syrian President Assad, who threatens to benefit from the American attacks on IS and Syria. So I'm asking for a little nuance from you, Mrs. Lijnen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u31	This is the resolution to intervene in Iraq, at the request of Iraq. If I have been properly informed about international law, we may intervene at the request of another government. We do this not only from the West, but we do it with a very broad coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have no choice but to adopt this resolution today. What else did Libya teach us? That military intervention is one matter, but that a political path is also important. This is in the resolution you are refusing to approve today, Mrs Almaci. It says it literally: humanitarian, political and military. As I said, we welcome the cooperation of the countries in that region: Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, which are clearly part of the operations. It is very positive, but also necessary, that they accept their responsibilities in their own way. I'd like to talk to you about the F-16s. I have already mentioned this in committee. We are convinced that our country can make an important contribution to this operation with the F-16...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We believe that our Belgian participation in the international coalition also shows that our army can play a significant role in stopping such armed horror gangs. Our army will therefore have to have effective fighters. Again I would like to stress that our military have a beautiful track record. What our F-16 people have done in Afghanistan and Libya has made an international impression. We can trust our boys and girls from the Air Force with great confidence in this mission. The resolution explicitly asks, and quite rightly so, for the government to ensure maximum security, but it goes without saying that I come back to this point, Mr De Vriendt, that it is not just a military matter. The resolution highlights the need to make parallel progress in diplomatic, financial, economic and humanitarian matters. We must be aware that military action is a prerequisite for weakening IS, for creating conditions to provide humanitarian aid and for achieving a political solution. This is stated in the resolution on your benches, with the exception of one amendment. If IS is a snake, then his head is in Syria. However, the mandate that we are to give to our government today is quite rightly limited to Iraq. After all, the government in Baghdad has explicitly called for our help. In doing so, intervention is in line with international law. Meanwhile, Belgium and the entire coalition must continue to exert pressure to obtain broad international support for military action in Syria. The resolution stipulates that the government will return to Parliament should the duration, nature or location of our military deployment change. At that time, we will have to assess whether there is sufficient ground to reorient or expand our commitment. That is all stated in this resolution. As far as the EU is concerned, I must say, as I said in committee, that I am very disappointed. I very much regret that she, as a political and military partner, is virtually absent. The horror is happening in Europe's backyard, but almost twenty years after the war in Bosnia and fifteen years after Kosovo, it was waiting again for an American initiative. It is high time that Europe casts its fear of its own shadow at political and military level and demands its place, if we believe that we are prepared to defend our values. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude my speech. I would very much like to do so with the words of concerned scientists on genocide studies and human rights in an open letter to the UN Security Council on 26 August 2014. I quote again: 'It is our conviction that failure to act will be tantamount to deliberately closing eyes to a threatening or ongoing genocide. Passivity can result in a catastrophe similar to the lax and unscrupulous reaction of the international community during the crisis in Rwanda in 1994. It is time to stand up for humanity, to stand up for the principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group has chosen not to close its eyes, as others will do today, although I still have the vain hope that they will join us in showing the courage to tackle the horror. It is our goddamn duty to protect the citizens of Iraq. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u32	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have a problem, a very big problem: today we are being asked to intervene in the Middle East. The Middle East, ladies and gentlemen, is a mess and the West itself bears a very great responsibility for that fact. After the fall of the Ottoman Empire, we drew almost random boundaries. We helped regimes defend our interests so that we could benefit from the raw materials in the region. We have created a problem, which we have also let rot: relations between Israel and Palestine. I'm getting closer to today's topic: Iraq. At the beginning of this century, the United States intervened in that country under false pretenses. If the situation in that country is now so disastrous, it is primarily a responsibility of the United States and its coalition members from that period. Ladies and gentlemen, there are others responsible for the difficult situation we are facing. These are countries from the region, which I will mention by name. Turkey has done little suspiciously to prevent thousands of Syrian fighters from crossing its border to Syria. Saudi Arabia has created and financially supported ISIS, only with the aim of making the Shiite alliance between Syria and Iran more difficult. Saudi Arabia is now bitten by the viper who made it great. The same applies to Qatar. We're facing an immense problem. The question we need to answer today is whether we are passively watching the Middle East sink into total chaos. Just imagine we wouldn't intervene. Then it is certain, given the weakness of the states in which ISIS operates, that it is completely underfoot. And then there are other countries: Jordan and Lebanon. We cannot allow such a thing to happen, just because we have a historic responsibility for the difficult situation in which that region finds itself. But, ladies and gentlemen, we must learn lessons from previous interventions. We must not repeat the mistakes we have made in the past. It is wrong to think that military intervention is enough. There is also a need for a stable framework in the country where intervention is taking place. Look at Libya. There, Gaddafi was defeated militaryly and the vacuum was subsequently filled by horrible fundamentalist Islamic groups. The second thing we need is this. We must, moreover, be so modest as to acknowledge that. The United States and the West are no longer able to impose their will without cooperation and cooperation from the countries of the region. The war in Afghanistan has lasted a long time and is a total failure. Thirteen years, two and a half times as long as the Second World War, we have waged war there. It is a total failure for various reasons, but also because Pakistan has been a safe haven for the Taliban for years. If the countries near Iraq and Syria do not cooperate, we cannot rectify the situation. So we stand for a hell of a job. For yes, many of the states, Iraq and Syria, are weak or are wavering. And yes, those countries that we expect to cooperate with us to stabilise that region have been divided according to sectarian, ethnic and religious dividing lines, and it will not be easy to overcome that. Colleagues, it is not easy, but sp.a says that the military operation is needed. It is necessary to buy time, to make sure that the road map, fellow Members of the Greens, is drawn out. Not intervening now creates an insoluble situation. The intervention is needed to forge a coalition between the countries concerned. Maybe I'm optimist, but I see things moving. I do not agree with you, Mr De Vriendt, because I see Turkey moving in the right direction. I see Saudi Arabia and Iran have contacts again. The Foreign Ministers are sitting together. So it could be, but I won't be standing here lying and I can't predict the future that such a coalition is possible. The sp.a does not want us to do the work instead of the countries in the region. Such a practice has failed in the past in Iraq, which has failed in Libya. Our continued support for the operation has been conditioned by the local efforts we want to see, by the local agreement we want to see and, above all, by the progress we want to see. That means very specifically that those who fed the conflict must cooperate with Turkey, Iran and Saudi Arabia. We want to see better. We want to go to solutions for Iraq and Syria. I have heard a lot of pessimism about Syria here and that pessimism can be justified, but sometimes there are also small points of light. The UN has sent out a special envoy. Others are in the process of getting things more or less stabilized in Syria. To be really clear and clear, we will not be blamed for this later: if we see that there is no progress, we will withdraw our support for the operation. After all, we do not want to repeat Afghanistan or Libya: 13 years of spending billions of euros on a region and not seeing a solution or, in the case of Libya, spending hundreds of million euros and then finding that the country has changed into hell. The honest supporters of the operation certainly have some doubts and fears. If the operation turns out to be counterproductive and, for example, a strengthening of ISIS, then we must have the courage to establish that the operation has failed and stop it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a fierce debate on Wednesday, partly before and partly behind the scenes. There was a proposal for a resolution tabled by the Swedish majority. We have said that we could not accept them and have tabled amendments on three crucial points. The first amendment is a principle that my group and my party have been maintaining for decades, and that states that any operation must be consistent with international law. Any operation must be legal. Mr Francken, we urge you not to deal pragmatically with international law. You are one of the best connoisseurs of the military apparatus in this Chamber. I am not a military equipment specialist, but if there are any aircraft that can fire a bomb or a rocket to one metre precisely, you cannot tell me that these aircraft cannot see whether their target is on Syrian or Iraqi soil. I believe that Mr De Vriendt is right. You're preparing a mission creep. You like to go to war, and after Iraq you prefer to go to war in Syria. Colleague, we've been warned. I hope you will show sufficient respect for parliamentary decision-making. This resolution is clear and clear. We give the Belgian pilots permission to meet targets only in Iraq. A second point on which we have been able to reverse this resolution...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u33	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u34	I'll stand until I've done it. I didn't interrupt you either. I wanted to, but I didn't do it. A second point on which we have reversed the Swedish negotiators' resolution concerns the breadth of the contribution. In the draft text we received, there was also talk of training, advice and assistance and special reconnaissance assignments. Fortunately, we were able to amend the resolution. We found it much wiser to limit ourselves to the use of F-16. Why? For two simple reasons. Firstly, you know my starting point: we should not try to do everything ourselves. Let the countries of the region, some of which are much richer than we are, some of which have a military arsenal that others can only look forward to, accept their responsibility. Do you know Saudi Arabia has seven hundred fighter planes? Do you know how many troops it has? Well, let the countries in the region also accept their responsibilities and do not shift them to the West. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we are opposed because, unlike Mr Francken, who just advocated more money and more resources for defence, we believe that these are difficult budgetary times. We do not think it is wise to throw money now. If we had followed the proposal of the Swedish negotiators to also carry out training, advice and assistance and reconnaissance assignments, we would have achieved a monthly expenditure of 14 million gross. Now it will be between 3.5 and 4 million. I think that is a lot of money, but at least it is two thirds less than the expenditure originally planned. I do not understand how the Swedish majority can propose this at a time when it is proposing an index jump and wants to cut health care. Apparently, 14 million a month is just giving away to this operation. Not with us! Fortunately, others, who are wiser than Mr Francken, followed us. Thirdly, we have tabled an important amendment on duration. It now amounts to one month, after which an evaluation will be carried out. We also want to guarantee a comprehensive report to Parliament in the committee on the follow-up of foreign missions and in the Committee on External Relations, and consultation with Parliament if the duration, nature or territory of the operation is changed. On the basis of these three points, we shall vote in favour of this resolution. After all, we remain faithful to our logic. If we put three points on the table at the start of a negotiation process, and if we bring all three in, this means that we believe that the resolution is sufficiently adapted. Very briefly, I would like to repeat what other Members have said here, without going into too much detail. In paragraphs 4 and 6 we see the need for a comprehensive approach in the military, political, diplomatic, humanitarian, economic and financial fields. Several speakers who have spoken before me have argued in favour of this, and of course we are in favour of it. With regard to point 5, the increased risk, I would like to invite the Swedish negotiators to quickly form a government so that they can present their new projects in this area. After all, I think that the waiting period is really going to be very long. We have an urgent problem: the increased risk resulting from that operation needs to be addressed. I do not yet know what proposal the Swedish coalition will be presenting, but I can say that the sp.a touchstone will be Resolution 2178, which was adopted yesterday in the Security Council. Resolution 2178 deals with the fight against foreign terrorist fighters, and that is the key to our approach. As a small country, Belgium best endorses what has been agreed at international level. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude my speech. The sp.a will adopt the resolution now before us. I do not want to hide the fact that we have received critical reactions to our intention. Maybe it's unusual to say that, but I have a lot of understanding for part of that criticism. We are being asked difficult questions, which I personally do not think I can give a satisfactory answer to. Colleagues, there is indeed a chance that the political-military response that we are now giving to the situation in the Middle East will not work. However, it is a step too far for us to decide to do nothing. Can I put a question to the fellow Members who have already announced in committee that they would abstain or vote against? That question is very simple, ladies and gentlemen. If we do nothing, if we do not intervene, will ISIS stop his conquest? Do you think so? If we remain passive, if we continue to watch with the arms crossed, do you really believe that ISIS will stop? I would like to propose to the three groups that you should consult with the Turkmen minority of Amerli. That city threatened to be overwhelmed by ISIS three weeks ago. Thanks to air support, the offensive of ISIS was stopped. Perhaps you should listen to the people of Kobani who are now on their feet, because the troops of ISIS have reached eight kilometres from that city. Just before I got to the chair I saw a call from the assembled Kurdish leaders. They ask the West to help us, because we cannot stop it. 140 000 inhabitants have already crossed the border from that region to Turkey. They're joining the 1.4 million refugees who are already there. According to specialists, 260 000 people still live in the region. If we are passively watching, then it is certain that these 260 000 have the choice of sighing, brutally speaking, under the terror of ISIS or also to leave Turkey. Protecting the population and minorities, as others have said before me, is one of the first reasons we have to intervene. In addition, foreign policy is also about self-interest, let us be honest about that. Do you think, fellow Members who do not wish to intervene, that it is in the interests of Europe that a whole region sinks into chaos at a few hundred kilometres from us? Do you think this is in the interests of Europe? Do you think we will not be harmed by this? We believe that this is the case. That is why we will say yes later, but our support for this operation is not a blank cheque. Our support has been conditioned by the cooperation we get in the region and the progress we see on the ground. We do not want to end up in an expensive, hopeless war again, as in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u35	Mr Francken, you want to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u36	Mr President, I hope that speaking time will not be reduced by my colleague, because I do not want to argue in the group. Mr Van der Maelen, the truth has its rights. Can you show us a draft resolution by the Swedish coalition in the process of intervening in Syria? I dare you. There's no such thing. That's never been on the table. You weren't present at those meetings. We were there. You say I'm warlike. I'm not wary at all. I have always said very clearly in military interventions that there must be respect for human rights, that there must be respect for international law. What I said about Syria is that we must be careful not to be abused by those IS troops, because there are just as many troop movements on that border. That's our point. It cannot be the intention of us to limit ourselves to that limit and then abuse it. It is, of course, true that our bombs are effective up to a few meters, but if there are so many troop movements of IS fighters there, also because Kurdistan is nearby, then we must pay attention to that. That's what I said. Secondly, you say we wanted to send C-130s. The idea of sending C-130 debt securities has never been included in a resolution, not even in a motion for a resolution, there has never been any mention of it. The Minister said a number of things in the committee which could possibly be considered. So you did not have a resolution in your hands which states that C-130 debt securities would be sent, and if so, you may show that motion for a resolution. Then I get to what I said about the Special Forces. It's about 34 people, that's all, about three platons from Heverlee. It seems logical to us that the Kurdish and Iraqi army should be further trained. The morale of the troops must be increased urgently, and this can only be done through Western training. That's what I said. By the way, we do that in Afghanistan with your party's approval. Finally, on the budget of Defence: as far as I know, your party is still in the federal government, as far as I know, Minister Johan Vande Lanotte is still Deputy Prime Minister in the federal government, and as far as I know, the signing of the Wales Declaration took place three weeks ago under the auspices of the federal government, including your ministers, Mr Van der Maelen. It is Mr Di Rupo who signed it on behalf of the Belgian Government. And it says literally that the defence budget needs to go up.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u37	Mr Francken, I would like to read you point 1 of the Swedish resolution: 'The Belgian Government is asking for an active participation in the international fight against IS.' I will read to you the text that we will adopt later: '...calls on the government to actively participate in the international fight against IS in Iraq for one month.' Voila, then you have the difference. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the decision-making part of a resolution that counts, it was not in your text. Mr Francken, I invite you to read the report of this sitting, and you will find that I did not say that the C-130 pesetas were in the Swedish resolution. I did mention the C-130. That is correct when I pointed out that in the first meeting with the Minister of Defence, the Minister said that six F-16... two C-130... and training costs EUR 14 million. That is where I spoke about C-130 pesetas, not when I spoke about the content of the resolution in which you cooperated and which was presented to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u38	In this debate in plenary, we must concentrate on the main principles and principles. I would like to make a further appeal to Mr De Vriendt, who I am happy to give the floor to.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u39	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, few decisions are as difficult as the decision whether or not to take part in a war. A war is about life and death. This means that the military we are sending out is at risk and that the population in the places we are attacking is at even greater risk. What are the consequences of our longer-term bombing? The debate we are having on this subject must be cautious and nuanced. After the committee meeting earlier this week, we considered the outcome of the vote. Green and Ecolo have an understanding for the reflex, for the impulse something to do. We too are fully aware of the threat that the terrorists of the so-called Islamic State represent in the Middle East, in the world, and also in us. When we look at the fearless horror, the decapitations, the instability that the terrorists cause, we also say that we must take out the terrorists of IS as quickly as possible and that we must do something. We have opened up from the outset. In our first reaction, we said that we were prepared to look closely at the question of participation in military intervention. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are politicians. This means that we must not give in to that first reflex, that first impulse to do something. It is our social duty to think about the consequences of our decision. We must also learn from the past, from other military operations. Let us also look at the advice of the professors of the ULB, or the advice of respected NGOs like Brotherly Delen or Pax Christi, who warn us. They warn us, because the military operation will cause civilian casualties. They warn us, because radicalism in the region will only increase through this military operation. The attraction of jihad fighters will only increase. They also warn us, because Syrian President Assad, whom we all denounced here a few months ago, may benefit from a military operation if it is conducted there in that way. They warn us, because crucial partners for global security, such as Russia and China, will now turn away even more from the Western community and the European Union. This could be particularly detrimental to future conflicts. They warn us, because the Sunni community in Syria and in Iraq may now be more united under the attacks of the international coalition and will radicalize even further towards the so-called Islamic State. That first reflex, that first impulse, is valuable, ladies and gentlemen, but a reflection on the long term, on the consequences of our actions, is even more valuable. Colleagues, in that sense, the remedy can be worse than the ailment. Sometimes it is. This can be avoided by working on the root causes of the problem and by developing a political strategy. We barely made that exercise today. The military plan is on the table. Minister De Crem was particularly detailed in the committee. The plan's been written out. But where is the political plan to make military intervention a success? I listened with great attention to Dirk Van der Maelen's speech. I thought it was nuanced, but I do not think the position of sp.a in the debate on the conflict is really clear. Mr Van der Maelen, what do you say? If it turns out that the bombings have only made the situation worse, you will withdraw your support. Then evil has already happened. Well, perhaps it would be useful to make that reflection already and to listen to the many opinions that have been issued that warn us. I think you should make that exercise now, not when it's too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u40	I have come up with the resolution once again. Point 4 literally states: "Requires that all necessary efforts be continued in political diplomacy, financial, economic and socio-humanitarian areas in order to find a sustainable solution to the crisis with a view to stabilising the region in the longer term." Point 6: "Requests the Government to continue to use all diplomatic means to ensure sufficient military and political support from the region for the actions against IS.' Considerans I: "Convinced that pure military intervention is insufficient to find a lasting solution to the crisis and that a very general political-diplomatic, financial, economic and social humanitarian approach is also needed to stabilise the region in the longer term and resolve the refugee problem. Mr De Vriendt, I fully understand your concern. That is why I would like to make a proposal. After reading your amendment, I think we can get out very quickly in order to reach a consensus. You are asking for a political roadmap to be drawn up, and I also think it is essential to think carefully about how to proceed politically. Even though we have already referred to this in the resolution, we may ask colleagues to agree to your amendment, provided that you delete the phrase 'before taking military action' and the rest of your amendment. I think we can include the question of the political roadmap in the resolution. Then you will find the substance of your amendment in the resolution. In the resolution we do not give any further details about military action. With the adoption of your amendment, the resolution also contains the question of the political road map and I think we can reach a consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u41	Mr De Vriendt, we differ only in terms of timing. You are right when you say that for the moment only the contours of such a political map have been drawn up. Now I'd like to ask you to be honest with me. If, as you ask, we were to complete the contours first, that would mean a diplomatic offensive of at least one or two months. Now, if we do that, I think that the situation on the ground will be insoluble in the meantime. The majority who will approve the resolution says that immediate action is needed to avoid worsening the situation, but in parallel all efforts must be made to achieve these contours. You disagree. If you stick to your own position, how do you think the situation in Iraq and Syria will evolve over the next two months if there is no intervention? Kobani, Lebanon and Jordan are very seriously threatened. Isn't that what you're worried about?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u42	Mrs Lijnen, I will answer your questions later, but I would like to say the following, also with regard to Mr Van der Maelen. I want to make a comparison between the debate in Belgium and that in the Netherlands. Open Vld, sp.a, CD&V and the N-VA are satisfied with a vague sentence in the resolution. You read him: "You ask that all necessary efforts be continued at political, diplomatic, financial, economic and social level." This is very vague and does not contain any guarantee or result. Just those results, those steps forward are needed to make military intervention a success. The policy letter from the Dutch Ministry of Defence to the House of Representatives is an eleven-page analysis with a detailed political plan of approach, of what the Dutch government will do in humanitarian, diplomatic and political matters. This is a serious discussion. These are steps in the right direction. Mr van der Maelen, you were present on the Committee on External Relations. Tell me, with the heart of the matter, that we have received an equally detailed political plan from the Belgian Government and Minister Reynders. Do you dare say that?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u43	Mr Van der Maelen, the government will have the floor later. Mrs Temmerman, I am in favour of good debates. We must be able to listen to each other on an important issue like this within a reasonable period of time, but we are not going to try to convince each other any further. Everyone is responsible for his voting behaviour and announces that. I am in favour of a lively debate, but once again, for a debate that goes within reasonable time. I therefore urge that we do not keep interrupting each other. A second speaker from the same group has been announced. Mr De Vriendt must also take this into account. I insist on a certain amount of succinctness.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u44	Mr President, could you ask the speakers not to address someone directly? It applies on both sides, I suppose: if one cannot answer, then one should not ask questions either.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u45	Mr Temmerman, Mr Van der Maelen spoke for Mr De Vriendt, so he may refer in his speech to what has been said here. Don't let everyone feel unneeded to get into a ping-pong game, because that doesn't contribute to the comprehensibility of the debate. Again, I judge that very objectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u46	I would like to bring further nuance to the debate. It will not surprise you: Green and Ecolo are not necessarily opposed to military intervention, but they must always be part of a political strategy with a view to a sustainable solution. I would like to take one step further: I am telling you that the military approach to the terrorist threat is most likely necessary, but in the right framework. Otherwise, we risk making the situation worse, with more instability, more chaos and more victims in the longer term, which we are now trying to achieve in the short term. Hence our amendment calling on the government to provide Parliament with a political roadmap before taking military action. This roadmap contains the commitments of the international coalition to achieve a number of important objectives, firstly, the establishment of a political dialogue, a peace conference for the region, led by the UN and with as many countries as possible involved. This is the only way to find a lasting solution. This means that countries such as Turkey, which plays a dubious role in the story, are involved. This means that countries such as Iran are also involved, that you will remember that first was excluded from international consultation. Russia too is hardly involved to this day. What helps bombing if today only the so-called Islamic State is an option to replace the failing state in northern Syria and Iraq? Secondly, we ask for guarantees for the cessation and prosecution of human rights violations by the Iraqi army, especially with regard to the Sunni people, who are now on the side of the Islamic State. The UN mission on the ground not only reports human rights violations by IS, but also by the Iraqi army and by groups supporting the Iraqi regime. We also call for an inclusive composition of the Iraqi regime and the new Iraqi government with Sunnis and a fair distribution of the revenues from the sale of oil between the Kurdish region and other minorities. What helps bombing, as long as the Sunni population doesn't get opportunities and so radicalize further in the arms of IS? Thirdly, we ask for commitments for concrete decisions that cut off the smuggling routes, the supply routes to IS. Nota bene Turkey, a NATO ally, provides ISIS fighters in hospitals on its territory and maintains those supply routes to ISIS. Does it not make more sense to first ensure that this NATO ally engages in a political strategy and that international coalition before bombing? The same applies to funding from Saudi Arabia and other Gulf States. What does bombing do as long as those routes continue to exist? Isn't that something to do, fellow Members? That's a lot to do. Those are efforts to achieve a sustainable solution, Mr Yüksel. You have just said that I do not want to do anything, but I have already said that this is not a black and white game. I regret that such a simplistic analysis is being made of such a complex conflict. The only solution for CD&V to address an international conflict is apparently a military solution today. That's what I'm looking at. I thought you were a party of nuance. I guess I was wrong about that. Where's your political plan? For the sake of clarity, we are not asking for a comprehensive political agreement before intervention, but we are asking for commitments, some results and some steps in the right direction. We should learn from the operations in Libya and Afghanistan that they are needed, but we do not have the political roadmap we ask of the international coalition. Well, I guess we're just gonna bomb 'cause we have to do something. It is not a solution and it bears witness to a boundless naivety, because there is no military solution to a conflict. Anyone who thinks that such a solution exists, such as Open Vld just now in the intervention of Mrs Lijnen, unfortunately leads a simplistic discourse, which is very optimistic but actually ignores reality. It is too optimistic and therefore no longer realistic. That is why we will abstain. We are neither militarists nor doctrinal pacifists who at least renounce the use of force. We're ecologists. We are aware of the precarious and far-reaching decision to use force. It is that reflection that we have wanted to make here today. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities earlier this week was a bitter pill to swallow, because we felt that the majority, sp.a., Open Vld and CD&V, were rather light-hearted about whether bombing is the best and only answer today. In addition, we as a Parliament are also very clearly putting ourselves out of business, because the resolution states, ladies and gentlemen, that we will only have an evaluation after a month of war. Until then, we are asking the government for a vague involvement of Parliament. We ask the government to consult with us if the nature, duration and territory of the operation would change. Green and Ecolo have tried to convince you to tighten up this follow-up, that parliamentary control, and to ask the government to cooperate in order to have the special committee on the follow-up of foreign operations meet on a weekly basis. Unfortunately, we were not supported in this, but it is important to monitor closely the implementation of that operation. After all, there is a risk of mission creep, of the tacit expansion of this operation, for example from Iraq to Syria. Ladies and gentlemen, the United States is already in the process of operating in Syria. The United States is already bombing Syria. That operation is not covered by international law, it is not covered by the United Nations. Foreign policy requires unity in government. The spectacle we have seen here of the four Flemish parties that have signed this resolution, with the different interpretations about Syria, promises little good for the unity needed to manage this conflict. Ladies and gentlemen, a stronger role for Parliament would also mean asking the government not only to consult with Parliament, but also to ask the government to re-decide Parliament if the operation were to change in terms of its nature, duration or territory. We can do that perfectly. It is not included in the Constitution, but today we are working with a resolution. That is a useful parliamentary instrument. We cannot just re-consultation between the government and Parliament; we can make Parliament's decision again perfectly if that operation were to change. We can do that again by means of a parliamentary resolution. We proposed this in an amendment, but it was refused. What kind of parliament is this? It weakens itself instead of strengthening itself, to ensure the succession of such a complex military operation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to call on you to think. We all share the same moral indignation and the urge to do something, but the pensée unique in this sitting and the speed with which we intend to bomb without a sufficiently strong political framework is actually astonishing. We must ask ourselves: do we not make things worse by bombing now? Have we not neglected the important political aspect of this international operation? What are the consequences of our actions? We must ask these questions as politicians.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u47	Mr De Vriendt, you have been very eager to quote names. I must apply the Rules of Procedure: if a name is quoted, I must have the person replicated. Mr Yüksel and Mrs Demir have asked for this. Mr van der Maelen, if you absolutely feel the need to add something to that... you have spoken very extensively. I have certainly not wronged you in the allocation of speaking time. You have exceeded your speaking time. Do you realize that?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u48	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, you have just said that I have made a very serene speech, with sufficient nuance. Now you're saying you're missing the nuance in the CD&V presentation. You are talking about an international conference, with international players such as the members of the Security Council, Turkey, Saudi Arabia and so on, but these countries have not been able to intervene in this conflict for months. How much longer do you want to wait and watch those tortures, beheadings and rapes that happen in the name of a world religion?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u49	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, our group has received the Kurdish Member of Parliament of Jezidian descent Vian Dakhil. She told us what was happening there and begged us to take action. I do not understand why a Green group wants to take responsibility for the fact that today Jezid women are being sold in the streets as sex slaves and that Christians are being abused every day. How long will you wait to stop the barbarians of ISIS? How much time do you want to take while women of the Jezidian minority are raped daily?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat my point. Military action now, without a comprehensive and sufficiently strong political framework, can only make things worse. It can only increase the number of victims in Iraq and Syria, a Syria of the Assad regime, and only increase the attractiveness and terrorist threat of Islamic State. I ask you to think and not give in to that first reflex to do something and then do the wrong thing. I am surprised at the laxity with which we are talking about political dialogue. Do you know that there has not even been an attempt to get these countries around the table and to get a resolution adopted in the Security Council? Do you know that, apart from the Security Council, we have not even tried to get a resolution adopted in the United Nations General Assembly, where the threshold, as you know, is much lower? I want to talk about the moral outrage. We all do. However, I would like to point out the selectivity. I want to throw that into the debate. Today you say that we must do something. Over the last three years, 190 000 people have been murdered in Syria. Where was that moral outrage to intervene immediately?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u51	Mr De Vriendt, may I take your speech as finished? I now give the floor to Mr Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, the government in day-to-day affairs has therefore taken the decision last Wednesday to engage our army in military action. But for obvious reasons, all the more so in times of day-to-day business, he is asking for the support and approval of our Parliament. Our group, the CDH, will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, which I have co-signed with six other groups, which intends to support the Government not only in its military, but also in its political and humanitarian activities, and which also provides for the clarification of its limits and contours. The central question is why we should intervene and why we should intervene today. I would add: why finally intervene? Some people think we're acting hastily. But, Mr. De Vriendt, it's your strategy that we've been implementing in Syria for three years. By doing nothing, by calling for government conferences, by avoiding intervention on the ground. By accepting the veto of Russia and China four times. Already four times these two countries have opposed any intervention on the ground. The reason we are intervening today is first of all because of the duty of humanity. It is time to stop the massacre on a large scale, this fulcruming, appalling fire, the disgusting violence that is currently spreading over an extremely large territory, on horseback between Iraq and Syria. This has already contaminated neighbouring countries such as Jordan and Lebanon. This is a conflict that threatens the security of the world, as other colleagues have also pointed out. Mr De Vriendt, I come from Iraqi Kurdistan. I met the Chaldean, Syriac, Yezidi, Turkmen, Shiite, Sabean victims. There are many of them. These people told me about the horrors they experienced. I met survivors, those who had been able to run fast enough not to be massacred by these barbarians. They told me about their escape, the hallucinating scenes during which their loved ones were murdered, their decapitated children, their old men, too slow, destroyed in dynamic buildings. They were simple women, men, children driven out of their village, hunted for their beliefs, massacred because non-Islamists, infidels, impure, pseudo-adores of the devil, or simply not enough believers, or former local collaborators of the Iraqi army or the American army. In their extreme distress, what they were asking for first, Mr De Vriendt, was not so much humanitarian aid, yet indispensable given their extreme precariousness, but our protection. It was always, at each interview, the first word, the first request, the first plea addressed to us: "Protect us against these monsters, find our loved ones taken captive, as hostages, as sexual slaves! We won't go back to where we were driven if you don't protect us for a long time." That is what we have heard during this week alongside these displaced persons. I sincerely believe that we have a responsibility to protect these populations. International law, which enshrines the absolute will of States, is often referred to. This principle has also been further reinforced by the 5 major nuclear powers – Mr De Vriendt, it should be something for you! – victorious in 1945 and thus have a veto right that allows them, even when the peace of the world is threatened, to prevent any action. This right of veto, I recall, has already been used four times by Russia and China to do nothing in Syria! Despite the horrors, despite the destabilization of an entire region, despite the millions of refugees, despite the 200,000 deaths you recalled, despite the chemical gases! Right of veto not used for reasons of international security by these two countries but for reasons of internal politics or cynical vision of international relations: Everyone has the right to massacre, provided he does so at home! That is what Russia and China are proposing today with their veto power! These powers did not hesitate to invade Crimea, part of Ukraine, and destabilize the China Sea today by taking a position in some of its islands. Let's hear each other well! I attach great importance to the prerogatives of the Security Council and, in the vast majority of cases, this Council has functioned rather well since the end of the Cold War, but it is equally important to clearly measure the limits of this Council and to understand that the current rules of the international order could one day be taken away if they no longer have legitimacy in the eyes of the peoples. We often forget two fundamental elements of international law, which I never hear you recall, and which also form the basis of our action. First of all, when genocide is under way – and it is certainly the case against the Yezidis, but we can also fear it against other beliefs such as Christians or Sabeans – it is our duty to intervene. I repeat: we have a duty to intervene! A veto that would be used at that time would violate the obligations of the United Nations Charter. Secondly, the responsibility to protect that I mentioned earlier is also an important principle of international doctrine, endorsed by the United Nations General Assembly at its autumn 2005 session. This responsibility to protect clearly provides for the subordination of State sovereignty to the application of minimum standards in humanitarian and human rights law. I would also remind you that we are acting at the invitation of Iraq, whose recent political developments also create a window of opportunity. But if we act now, it is also because the threat is no longer only regional. It becomes global, first by the claim of this Islamic caliphate to demand the allegiance of all Muslim countries and a series of other nations to its authority, then by the rallies it has already generated. And we also act because the metastases of this cancer swarm into our home. Young people, 300 to 350, left home to fight. Some have returned, dangerous, indoctrinated, trained to kill, ready to commit crimes. Mehdi Nemmouche took action against the Jewish Museum in Brussels. Others, no doubt, are ready to do so. It is therefore our own security, not to mention our responsibility for the fact that some of these young parties are precisely the executioners of the refugees I met in Iraqi Kurdistan. It was the Minister of the Interior of Iraqi Kurdistan who told me, when I met him. He said, "But what are you doing in Europe? What's going on? There are these young people who leave your home, who come to kill our compatriots and who then return and travel freely in Europe. When are you going to stop these young people and when are you going to be more severe with these departures?" A Sunni Muslim, Mr. De Vriendt, told me. On the format of military engagement, as I said in committee, I am sure that our F-16s will be useful. Targeted strikes, carried out with discernment, such as those carried out by the American army and now by the French and the United Arab States, have allowed, in some cases, and will still allow, to stop the advance of the Islamic State group. As we know, our planes are excellent, our pilots are among the best in the world. Our rules of engagement – if they were the ones that prevailed in Afghanistan – are clear and reassuring. But I continue to insist that we help on the ground the men who are fighting today, on a daily basis, against this Daesh group and who share, in any case for those whom I have met and who have demonstrated it, our values of tolerance and respect for diversity, integrity and human dignity. In Kurdistan, I met the peshmerga who helped Christians, Yazidis, Turkmens and even Shiites. They fight bravely to save their own but also the others, all the other victims of the Daesh. Without them, Baghdad would probably be in the hands of Caliph Al-Baghdadi today. Without them, Christians would have been decimated and the yezidis completely destroyed. They are reliable partners. I am pleased that they are recognized as such by the international community, but we must help them quickly. When I met them ten days ago, they were still fighting with small arms dating from the Iran-Iraq war against the equipped forces of the Daesh, they, with the best weapons looted in the stockpiles of the Iraqi army, provided by the American army. So it's a totally unequal fight that explains the staggering advance in northern Iraq six weeks ago, and in Syrian Kurdistan a few days ago. So I will and I understand that Belgium prefers to limit its action in Iraq today. We're a small country. And I understand that we are focusing on this action. Parliament will need to be closely linked to the evaluation of operations. But I want to be clear. Mr Van Der Maelen, as you said in other words, I will not condemn the United States for having hit the Daesh forces around the Kurdish city of Koban in northern Syria in recent days, because that is where it is happening today and tens of thousands of people are surrounded by the Daesh. These strikes allowed, to some extent, to loosen the vise around Koban. Let us not de facto create sanctuaries or retreat zones for the Daesh forces, as the Foreign Minister said in committee. And let us be lucid: for this caliphate, there is no border between Iraq and Syria. It controls 120,000 square kilometres and 13 million people on both sides of the Irako-Syrian border. I will also recall the words of the Grand Rabbi of France, who hoped that we would intervene more quickly for these populations than we did for the Jews during the Second World War. However, we will not win the war against obscurantism and brutality by arms alone, and we agree with that. We are waging a long-term struggle, which began at least fifteen years ago, which is ahead of us for a long time and which is above all political. This war will be won by the reaffirmation of our values, by education, by the fight for more social justice, by better international cooperation to advance the values of freedom, dignity and justice. It will also be won by more firmness against those who engage in the field of jihad. We must also make progress in this area. A binding text of the Security Council, voted two days ago – in the presence of our Prime Minister and 27 Heads of State – obliges us to do so. We have been calling for a long time at the CDH for approval of the so-called "mercenaries" law. Joëlle Milquet – Mr Franken, you were referring to it just now – tabled this text on the Kern table in April 2013. She received no support at that time. We continue to call for the Royal Decree to implement this law to be finally approved by the Council of Ministers. Other measures such as the travel ban or the Schengen entry and exit list system, as suggested by Gilles de Kerchove, must also be taken. We need to drain the resources of the Daesh terrorists. How is it that the Daesh continues to receive millions of euros of oil revenue every day while the oil pipelines they control are producing for a large part in Turkey? Who are the buyers of this oil? What arrangements do the European Union and the international community put in place to permanently close these valves? I have spoken several times in committee on the troubled role of Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Qatar. I hope that, finally, we will learn from the role they have played in this conflict. I will conclude with the humanitarian aspect. Millions of people have been thrown on the roads. Nearly 200,000 people were murdered. Some of them are hiding. 1,700 Yezidis are still hidden in the Sinjar Mountains and pursued by the forces of the Daesh who want to exterminate them. 7,400 Yezidis are held hostage and could serve as human shields. We need to help them better, faster. We must actually help those who are at the borders of these conflicts, but we must also be able to provide them with more effective humanitarian assistance, also at home. Finally, I would like to greet all those Muslims who, from Britain, and now throughout the world, have once again wanted to cry loud and clear and to reaffirm that all these horrors were not on their behalf, that they were as horrified, that they were scandalized and ready to mobilize to fight against this new fascism, this Nazism of the twenty-first century, that threat to the whole world, to all peoples, whatever their beliefs, whatever country they live in. I am pleased to know that today, a very large majority of our nation, through its elected representatives, whether in the North or in the South of the country, regardless of their political or philosophical convictions, supports our government and our armed forces that are committed. It was indispensable and I welcome it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u53	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the terrorist organization Islamic State must be dismantled. There is no doubt about that among the members of this assembly. The crimes perpetrated by this terrorist group are intolerable, as are the crimes, Mrs Lijnen, of Boko Haram in Mali and in the Central African Republic, to name but a few examples. The situation in which they plunge the Syrian and Iraqi populations is unacceptable. The question here is not whether to fight them, but how to combat them effectively. For the Greens, this special majority takes the problem from the wrong side. Is there anything we need to do? Yes. But you are considering military participation in Iraq without having previously established a comprehensive political strategy. Of course, the bombings may alter certain power relations on the ground. But they will not bring a lasting solution to this conflict. There is even a real risk that the situation will become more complex and the crimes will intensify. The Greens question the purpose of this military mission. In practice, we asked in committee what concrete objectives ministers felt they had to fulfil in order to consider the mission accomplished. The answer was vague, as unfortunately is all the rest of this project. The countless military strikes that have hit this region – I am not just talking about Iraq – since 2003 have clearly done worse than better. This has probably even contributed to the emergence of these ultraviolent groups that we all want here to see disappear. It is naive to think that only a military operation, without the prior establishment of a concrete and serious political project, under the aegis of the United Nations, can put an end to this terrorist threat there, but also here. Where is your plan? Assembling the marsh where these fanatics grow and embellish, it is first and foremost to give a place to the Sunnis and the Kurds, the Turkmens and all the other minorities discussed in this debate, in this new Iraqi state. It is to make traceable the oil produced in the areas controlled by these terrorists and criminals, oil that they sell on the market, including here. This increases their financial and military capabilities. Belgium must also fight at European level to grant temporary protection status to Syrian and Iraqi refugees. Our country and its armed forces could support countries in the region that face a massive influx of refugees and need assistance. Above all, and finally, we must put, once and for all, around the same table and under the aegis of the United Nations, those who draw the strings of these innumerable regional conflicts, starting with Iran, Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Qatar. That's where the solution goes. The solution is political, not strictly military. The military tool must be at the service of politics, not the other way around. Yes, we must do something, neither let it go, nor go to war! Finally, I would like to point out a contrast, Minister of Defence. The Committee on Public Health, unanimously, has asked to hear from you as regards the assistance that the Belgian army could provide to the African people who are now victims of Ebola. These populations and local NGOs are calling for equipment and staff, women and men, in order to contain these patients in order to prevent the spread of this virus, which causes disasters. Ecolo and Groen would like to see you present to the Public Health Commission with the same eagerness as you showed up to defend this war project in Iraq.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u54	Mr President, I understand that my group has already addressed the issue in depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u55	Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity of the intervention of the N-VA to take the floor in response to Mr Franken's speech in order to put the clocks back on time. No, the Prime Minister did not support NATO's request for additional effort in defence spending. No, the PS does not support an increase in arms spending in such proportions. On the contrary, the Prime Minister has expressly made a reservation to the level of military expenditures in order to be able to accept the final document. A debate as important as this one deserves something other than a counter-truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u56	I would be very surprised if Mr Di Rupo did not sign the declaration, because his signature is below it. I'm a little confused anyway. Anyway, let us clear that up in the next few minutes with who was there. The Wales Summit Declaration was signed by the Belgian Government under the Prime Minister, Mr Di Rupo. It says the defense budget needs to go up. We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u57	The floor is now for your group colleague. Mr De Roover is making a second attempt. (...): (...) For 15 minutes!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u58	Mr President, will it help if I temporarily tear myself away from my group?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u59	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u60	If you tell me where you want to go, it might help.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u61	At Mr Calvo's pace, I have a lot to say. A decision on military intervention is ironic in the light of the fact that a number of people are going to an activity tonight to commemorate the Great War, which took place just a hundred years ago. The roots of the Flemish Movement lie in that event. Young people were driven to war and the survivors, too few in number, came back tired of war. I believe that we must not lose sight of this in this debate. In this debate, on the one hand, the F-16 people, who seem to have an almost erotic appearance in some circles, dominate and, on the other hand, there is as touching as naive pacifism, which gives the impression that a benefit evening is enough to stop the IS fighters. People are hiding behind the beautiful debates. Two weeks ago, we were able to meet Mrs Vian Dakhil, an Iraqi MEP for the Jezidi people. She gave an oppressive testimony about decapitated men, kidnapped children, raped girls and women sold as slaves. It is difficult for us to imagine that. For them, that's hard, daily reality. Strangely enough, the sound of our fighter planes sounds like the whistling of a peace dove. Without our military efforts, they remain unprotected and helpless, prey to the worst barbarism. It has already been said here: they are not the only ones counting on our active support. Christians, Kurds, other minorities and religions are also counting on that. But also the Muslims, who do not want to follow IS fanaticism, count on our active commitment. Joining the broadest possible coalition, including allies from the Middle East, is therefore the only right choice we can make today. However, I think we should also express the hope that we can put our fighter planes back in the hangars as soon as possible. Today we have to think about the day after. That is why I believe that participation in this intervention is important, so that we will have the day after more right to speak than we do today. Following our meeting with Mrs Dakhil, I would like to ask our government members some very specific questions. We have already decided with our governments, both Flemish and federal, to provide humanitarian aid. From Mrs Dakhil's testimonies, we have had to realise that this aid is very difficult to get to where it is needed, to the Jezidi people. There are very often NGOs that are not even active in the area where the needy live. Within the limits, which are appropriate at the moment, I would urge the government to keep us informed of the efforts being made to ensure that the aid provided would actually reach the victims. By the way, following the debates here, I have to conclude that we sometimes look like frogs blowing themselves up. We are talking about a very small part of the total intervention force, but it sometimes seems like the Security Council. Once we have made our small contribution, I think we should use the prestige built up by it in the allies. Of course, the raped women need a lot more than breaking open cell doors to be truly liberated. Even after the battle a coalition of the willing is needed, a coalition of the good guys, who, as has been said before, must be able to take confidence-building measures. I call on our country to take the lead in very small, concrete measures rather than in favour of major international conferences, which do not go beyond the scope of our hemisphere here. The resolution is rightly not limited to military action. We therefore urge that this resolution be taken equally seriously in all its parts. We must take the most important lesson from past military interventions to heart. Military action is often and still necessary to combat evil, but military action can never be enough to bring about the good.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u62	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is probably worth recalling from the outset that this motion for a resolution, despite our notable differences, our deep disagreements, was adopted almost unanimously two days ago in the Joint Committee on External Relations and Defence and was supported by seven political groups: the Reform Movement, the CD&V, the N-VA, the Open Vld, the CDH, the Sp.a, the PS. For an approach as important as the one that sees our country at the gates of war, by contributing to the international coalition that must strike the Islamic State, it was therefore clear that it was necessary to gather as widely as possible, to go as close to consensus. The work done upstream at this level by our Foreign Minister and Defence Minister, because we also had to commit ourselves to being ready with military and technical means, has been quite important and lasting for weeks. This motion for a resolution naturally engages us on the military level but goes far beyond that. A lot has been said. We know that we will not only find solutions through military operation and weapons. We therefore call on our Minister of Foreign Affairs and the government to continue to work in the concert of nations to work diplomatically and politically on avenues of rapprochement that are also fully part of the approach we are taking today. Throughout this debate, which has been going on for a few hours, I have had the impression that there was sometimes a humanitarian and military opposition, but this military operation aims to respond to a humanitarian emergency. We just don't have a choice. There are millions of refugees. Families are destroyed, homes are destroyed. I will not go back to all the words that have been said or the figures that have been presented. The United Nations even speaks of genocide against religious minorities. We just don't have a choice. We must respond with respect for international legality at the request of the Iraqi Government. We must respond militarily to this humanitarian emergency for the safety of these people but also for our own security. That was indicated. The Islamic State carries the threat beyond the region to Europe, especially in our country. Let us remember the attack on the Jewish museum. Mr. Nemmouche was coming back from Syria. Let us remember the recently arrested couple in Brussels, who planned attacks in Belgium. To act there is also to obey imperatives for the safety of Belgians. Beyond the national front against radicalism and terrorism, which is likely to be strengthened in the coming weeks, we must shoulder our responsibilities and modestly support, as we can, the work that is needed to weaken and destroy the Islamic State. Beyond the military and humanitarian aspect, we must naturally ensure – and the Department of Foreign Affairs, together with its counterparts in the European Union, is at work in this regard – that every effort is made to ensure that the Islamic State ceases to be rich. He is now ten times richer than Al-Qaeda and pays for his fighters. We know that thousands of European fighters have joined them. It is therefore obvious that part of the solution will depend on the agreements that we will conclude with certain countries to prevent this terrorist organization from continuing to grow richer. We are committed to a difficult terrain. Entering war carries multiple risks - first of all, for our military. Shortly before this vote, we can only think of them, but also their families. We also need to think about our resilience. We will almost all decide to send our soldiers to war. If Belgians are to be injured, will we have the ability to continue to assume the responsibility we take today? We'll be evaluating this in a month. We'll see if we have the opportunity to extend. I doubt that after a month this operation is over, but it is a risk that we must be aware of in the vote. It is also a risk to Belgians abroad. We know that the Department of Foreign Affairs is working to inform places, countries where Belgians should be strongly advised not to visit during this period. A risk also for Belgium perhaps! Mr de Kerchove, European Union-wide counter-terrorism coordinator, told us that, in his view, the risk was perhaps greater today than it was yesterday. We will see the message that will be delivered by the OCAM. I would be angry to conclude, Mr President, without referring to a fourth risk, that which is incurred by the Muslims of Belgium who are at risk of amalgam. Let us remember as much as possible that the countries of the Arab League participate as Muslim countries with us, in this coalition, in order to destroy this Islamic State which must never become a State!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Flemish interest is a cool lover of military action against IS in Iraq. Of course, as many have reaffirmed here all afternoon, IS must be combated, IS must be reduced, IS must be eliminated. My question is perhaps a new element in the debate, which was not discussed this afternoon: who are we actually fighting? Are we going to fight the barbarism? Are we going to fight terror? Are we going to fight the violence? Are we going to fight against what Minister De Crem said in committee, with a new word, against Mr Daesh? No, that's not the brand of some kind of laundry product, it's the Arab word for terror. "For," he said, "I don't even want to pronounce the word "Islamic State"." There is the word Islam in it, and Islam is what we have heard so many times before, of course, has nothing to do with the Islamic State as such. But who are we going to fight? In 1940, at the time of World War II, did we go to war against terror? Against barbarism? Against violence? Yes, of course. I thought we were going to fight national socialism. What were we doing in the Cold War? Did we go to war against terror, violence and barbarism? Yes, we went to war against communism. Today, whether we like it or not, whether it fits in with your multicultural and politically correct logic or not, we are going to fight against Salafism. Today we are going to fight Sunni extremists. Today we are going to fight jihadists. Today we are going to fight radical Islam, excuse me for saying so. We should dare to say that here. If we don't dare to say that, forget it, stop it, keep those planes on the ground, limit our costs and risks, gentlemen and ladies of the majority, and perhaps also limit the body bags that are coming back and the lives that we are going to risk here. We are not just going to fight IS today. Let us be consistent in what we are doing here today. We are also going, or should be, to fight against Boko Haram in Nigeria, against Al-Shabaab in Somalia, against Jemaah Islamiyah in Indonesia, against Abu Sayyaf in the Philippines, against the Taliban in Afghanistan and Pakistan, against the Al-Nusrafront in Syria, against Al-Qaeda in Pakistan. Why? Because of the fact that all of these are jihadist, salafistic extreme Sunni terrorist organisations that have one clear goal in mind: to establish an Islamic state through violence, an Islamic caliphate. The limits of Islam have indeed become very bloody boundaries and they are constantly shifting. Whether you like it or not, but thanks to the mass immigration, including from those countries that you have so happily accepted, over the past few decades, ladies and gentlemen of the PS, sp.a and related people, we are also faced here today with this salafism, this Sunni extremism, with that jihadism, with Sharia4Belgium, which obviously has nothing to do with Islam, with Al-Qaeda that has nothing to do with Islam, with Islamic State that obviously has nothing to do with Islam. "After Jerusalem, Rome "falls, is a statement by the self-proclaimed IS-Rolexkaliph Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the great self-proclaimed leader of IS. If the intention is to effectively disable IS, an air offensive will not be enough, let us not be naive about it. IS is a guerrilla movement that, like Hamas in Gaza, will hide behind the civilian population as soon as the first bombs fall. Such armies do not fight according to classical military logic as we are used to. That is what our interventions in Iraq, Lebanon and Libya must have made clear in the meantime. Moreover, the peace movement is indeed being turned off, it is not entirely incorrect, but I interpret that somewhat differently with bombs and bullets not fanatical ideology. It may well be that we are achieving the opposite. It may well be that our attack, which I support, but I would like to point out, will have the opposite effect and will be entirely in line with the strategy of the Islamic State and its associated organisations, who would not rather have the West attacking them, with the United States in the lead, because this will only increase their support in the Middle East and the Islamic world. We must try and learn not to debate too much according to our standards, our thinking patterns, our Western logic with those radical Salafists; we must try to understand what they actually want. Their logic is not ours, it's a completely different logic, it's a logic of suicide terrorism, it's a logic of decapitating people, of barbarism, of torture and all that goes with it in function of achieving their goal. Sacrificing a few thousand or ten thousand of their people is not an issue for them, on the contrary, they become their martyrs, their best propagandists over the coming months and years. Mr Secretary of Defense, we will need not only an air strike, but perhaps also a ground offensive. Boots on the ground will be needed to completely disable ISIS, which I doubt will ever be able to do. Another question is also obvious: what about IS in Syria? IS wants a caliphate in the Levant and the Levant is much bigger than just Iraq and even larger than Syria; it extends over almost half of the Middle East. Are we stopping at the border because we do not have a UN mandate? ISIS does not care very much about UN mandates and all that sort of thing. If we cross the border to Syria, will Bashar al-Assad become your ally, your best friend in the fight against ISIS? It is cynical that those who have helped Al-Nusra Front and even Al-Qaeda in the past have financed and provided weapons and technical and military advisors, are today part of the coalition of the willing. Imagine, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, until recently the great financiers of Al-Nusra, the forerunner of IS, are now our allies in this matter. How crazy can it get? I would also like to make a few political observations on the matter. In any case, military intervention against IS will increase polarisation with the Muslim community in our own country. Putting your head in the sand for the radicalisation of the Islam community in our country, and indeed throughout Europe, makes no sense. You may be denying the problem for yourself and your conscience, but that does not mean that the problem has disappeared. Can I quote two studies and polls from authoritative media in Europe? The Dutch NCRV recently reported that 75% of Muslims believe that the Syrian jihadists are heroes and that 70% of Dutch Muslims consider the Islamic laws, the Sharia, more important than our laws. Similar figures appeared in The Sunday Telegraph, Newsweek, Le Figaro, TF1, Berliner Zeitung, I won't quote them all. The figures are alarming, but nobody wants to hear them, because Islamic State, Al-Qaeda, Sharia4Belgium and so on have nothing to do with Islam, we know that by now. My question is this. If we do what we are about to do, send our troops to Iraq, should we not take measures with equal urgency to ensure that things do not get out of hand here? Should we not ensure that the well-known jihadists and their sympathizers who reside in our country and collaborate with IS, provide them with hand-and-span services and make them public, all of them, as soon as possible, if it depends on me within 24 hours, disappear behind bars? Shouldn't there be an urgent law, such as in France, that will ensure that those who come back from Iraq and Syria, which they have fought with IS, are taken away from their nationality and can never enter this country again? Should we not, like Germany, ensure that the symbols of IS and other radical Salafist symbols are banned by law? Are these measures not urgently necessary? Finally, I would like to say the following. I have already said this at the beginning of my speech and I repeat it. Both ministers have exhausted themselves in the committee and several speakers have done so today, claiming that ISIS and related people have nothing to do with Islam. However, the Qur'an is the constitution of the IS and Allah their unconditional leader. It is true that Muslim leaders and Muslims generally renounce the means and strategy of IS, but about the objectives, the achievement of an Islamic caliphate, an Islamic state where Sharia reigns, those Islamic leaders remain silent in all languages. That is also logical, because the objectives are the same: to create an intolerable totalitarian society where only the laws of Islam apply. That is also the essence of Islamic doctrine. Talking about IS, but not about Islam, in this case the Salafist Islam, is like talking about Stalin, but not about communism, like talking about Adolf Hitler, but not about national-socialism. In 1980 we heard that the Iranian regime of Ayatollah Khomeini, which hung gay men on cranes in their cities, was still not Islamic. In 2001, we heard that Al-Qaeda was not an Islamic movement. In 2010-2011 we heard that Sharia4Belgium had nothing to do with Islam. Today, in 2014, we hear that also Islamic State in fact has nothing to do with Islam. Ladies and gentlemen, IS and with enlargement many dozens of other similar salafistic extreme Sunni and jihadist organizations behave in relation to Islam as a chick does to an egg: they are inexplicably linked. Mr Secretary of Defense and Foreign Minister, one can do his best to turn a crocodile into a vegetarian, but no one has yet succeeded. You too will not succeed in giving the impression that all these organisations have no standing with Islam, quite the contrary. Islam is not a religion of peace, tolerance and tolerance. It's a religion of war, it's a religion of hatred and intolerance towards disbelievers and disbelievers, towards the West. As long as you have not understood that, this intervention is in fact pointless. Anyway, something is better than nothing: better one bird in the hand than ten in the air. We will support this resolution with many critical reservations. I hope this is the beginning of a war against radical Salafism, all over the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Syria and Iraq is dramatic for the civilian population. The testimonies of torture in this region are incredible. The situation is serious. The question before us today is whether the bombings will solve something. Today's question in Parliament is whether the bombings will solve anything. To answer this question, I think it is time to take stock of our various interventions over the last ten years in the region. We believed that by intervening in 2003 in the region of Iraq, we would resolve the situation. We believed in 2001 that by bombing Afghanistan, we would resolve the situation. In 2011 we would bomb in Libya and that would solve everything. We have to make it clear that this was not the case. We have to make it clear that the bombings have not solved anything. On the contrary, most ISIS fighters in Iraq and Syria come from Libya. On the contrary, it was by intervening in Iraq in 2003 that we completely deracted the Iraqi state to make it a partition on a religious basis. Our interventions over the last ten or fifteen years are part of the problem rather than part of the solution. I am very surprised to see how much consensus we have in this Parliament that intervention by bombing will solve something. The consensus is so strong that we have just heard from Belga that the F-16s took off a quarter of an hour ago, so before the vote in this Parliament! I ask the question: what is the point of this Parliament if, without even waiting for our vote, you are already sending the F-16s on a mission to the region, Minister? It's time we analyze the different factors. What does ISIS do? Yes, sending planes before our vote is a democratic problem! It is not because I am new in this Parliament that the rules should not continue to apply. We need a vote from Parliament to send the F-16s. Let us analyse the various factors that lead to an organisation such as ISIS being so strong. The first factor is, of course, the social misery in the region, in countries such as Iraq. The second factor is the fact that there is no longer a state in Iraq. A third factor is discrimination against Sunnis. I'm asking the question. For the past two years, the al-Maliki government has been cracking down on the Sunni population, which has suffered serious discrimination. What have we done? Nothing! What did the United States of America do? Nothing! When we are told today about the creation of the various terrorist and jihadist organizations, I ask you: who is the basis of the formation of these organizations? You know that. Saudi Arabia is one of the main financing factors. What has Belgium done in the last 25 or 30 years with regard to Saudi Arabia? Nothing! Neither from a diplomatic point of view nor from a political point of view. Who funded the birth of these jihadist organizations in the region during the 1980s and 1990s? The United States of America. Who reacted to these financings? No one in this assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to understand that we cannot continue to believe that we are going to solve the problems of this part of the world by bombing. The record of the last fifteen years is very clear: all our interventions have destabilized the situation on the ground and created areas of lawlessness that have allowed barbaric and terrorist organisations such as ISIS to blow up. For this reason, the PTB-GO group! will vote against this resolution. We believe that it is time to build an inclusive partnership with all countries in the region. And we cannot interpret Iran's non-invitation to the Paris Conference differently as a provocation on the part of the United States, which thus manifests its refusal to resolve the local situation. Secondly, it is clear that an immediate embargo must be imposed on arms supplies in the region. This embargo can only be set in motion with the support of Turkey, a NATO country, an ally, while everyone knows that the borders are simply open to both jihadists and weapons. Let's stop being hypocritical, colleagues. It is time for a clear position to be taken on countries such as Turkey, Qatar and Saudi Arabia, which are actually throwing oil on the fire and not resolving the situation in the region at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u65	Your time is up. You are new to Parliament, but you must keep your commitments. You asked for five minutes and got five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u66	Mr President, why do I only have five minutes?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u67	We agreed five minutes, I ask you to respect the time allotted to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u68	You have to be clear. We will not solve this problem by making public opinion believe that, as in an American film with Sylvester Stallone, we will intervene with some well-placed bombs. We must be able to work on a plan in the short and medium term, with all the countries of the region. That is why I ask Belgium, in view of our expertise at diplomatic level, to contact the European Union, to make contact with all the countries of the region, not forgetting Syria and Iran! We will not be able to save it if we want a medium- and long-term solution. It is this role that Belgium must play and we must not follow the Atlanticist manoeuvres to go bombard ourselves with the idea that we will solve everything. That would be a lie to public opinion!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u69	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as I am the last to speak, I will concentrate on the clear position of the People's Party on the indispensable fight against the Syrian-Iraqi Caliphate. Yes, we must eradicate the 30,000 jihadists who terrorize entire populations such as the Christian minorities in Mosul and northern Iraq, now massacred or displaced.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u70	Mr President, I listened to everyone without talking, without disturbing. If anyone could listen to me or not talk...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u71	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u72	Thank you. That is democracy too! Yes, Belgium must participate in the international force committed against Islamic State terrorists in Iraq and Syria. Yes, we must agree with Russia on the Syrian-Iraqi Caliphate. NATO and the European Union have already taken enough dangerous and counterproductive decisions about the civil war in Ukraine. Enough provocations from Europe and NATO to Russia! Let us agree with her on what we are going to do jointly in Iraq and Syria. Yes, we must stop this threat to Europe, but the Belgian government does not seem to be taking the right direction. After communication to the joint Defence and Foreign Affairs committees, at the press conference of the government led by the vice-firsts, we talked about everything except the important: the return of the Belgian jihadists or who reside in Belgium. The People's Party does not understand that all traditional parties are content to discuss the activation of the 1979 Law on the Prohibition of Combating Abroad. What the Belgian citizens want, you all know, is that they are not allowed to return! The People's Party believes that judicial treatment of jihadists in Belgium is inappropriate, ineffective and dangerous. Those returning from Syria or Iraq should not be punished in Belgium. They must be prohibited from returning by removing Belgian nationality and expelling those who immigrate or indoctrinate them in our territory. The vast majority of the 350 Belgian jihadists or Belgian residents who left since 2012, both men and women, have dual nationality. They would therefore not become stateless, which the UN Convention ratified by Belgium did not allow. Belgian citizens do not understand the procrastination of the government. Belgium is the first country in Europe for the number of young jihadists who went to fight in the Middle East per capita. Six times more than Britain! There's nothing to be proud of. Britain and the Netherlands, in particular, legislated weeks ago to remove English or Dutch nationality from the jihadists. What will Belgium do? To provide them with care when they return injured, at the expense of social security? Housing them in social housing if they are impecunious or providing CPAS assistance to their families? Let's go one step further. Is it not possible to witness fighting between our Belgian soldiers on Iraqi soil and the jihadists of Belgian or naturalized origin? The People's Party urges the jihadists to be deprived of all social rights – the right to family allowances, the right to social housing, the right to health care if they return to Belgium – at the same time as Belgian nationality. This is the first of the two aspects of the action we are asking our country to take; the other is to act on Belgian territory to stop the radicalisation of young people and the recruitment of fighters for the Middle East. These people have come to the margin and no longer have any place in our society. Accepting their return to help them reintegrate is the most dangerous angelism. Their departure has shown, if need be, that their integration into our society is a complete failure. It is clear to the People's Party that the coalition of which Belgium is part has the task of combating barbarism and terrorism, not a religion. I think you will agree that neither Britain nor the Netherlands are totalitarian states. Their governments, at least, have a backbone – unlike ours. The People's Party will table a bill to that effect. We must do everything possible to minimise the risks faced by our fellow citizens in the face of this totalitarian threat. Their protection is in our view a priority and a duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u73	Mr President, ministers, there was a long debate. There is one major fact: a UN Security Council resolution, Resolution 2170. Adherence to this resolution alone is sufficient to determine the mandate of a United Nations Member State to implement it. I am somewhat surprised that those who so often have the will to invoke international law, who so often have the will to say that without a United Nations mandate, no intervention mission can be carried out in a sovereign State, are now trying to add conditions beyond what resolution 2170 does not impose. There is a contradiction here. International law cannot be invoked to govern relations between sovereign States and at the same time to escape when the international community reminds each State of its obligations under international law. That is what makes the difference with the US intervention in Iraq in 2003, at the time without an international mandate. That had justified our country's failure to engage alongside the United States. And that is what justifies today, because there is a UN resolution, that we participate in a coalition of armed forces to implement the UN resolution. I have heard another paradox when we are told that resolution 2170 cannot be enough for itself and that, in addition, a political plan is needed. First, we need to read resolution 2170. It must be read in all its developments, in all its obligations, including humanitarian law, the implementation of humanitarian procedures and the implementation of a dialogue with the countries of the region. Nor should the will of the international community depend solely on the will of the States of the region, because it has rightly been recalled here that a number of States in the region have had a troubled, if not guilty, game in the rise of the radical extremism of terrorist movements. We cannot tell the international community today to stay out of the game because we must wait for Saudi Arabia, Qatar or Tehran to say what their definitive intentions are with respect to international law. I think that would be a heavy responsibility. The major fact of resolution 2170 reminds us that fortunately, in the face of the crimes that are committed in this region of the world, in the face of crimes that can be described as crimes against humanity, force can still remain in the international law that the United Nations represents. That is the reason for our commitment, our support for this coalition, which is not a coalition of going into war but of all those who still have enough awareness to ensure that international law is respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u74	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank all the groups. We have already had three meetings, a meeting of the External Relations Committee and two joint meetings of the Defence and External Relations Committees. We said it was just a start. We must do something against the many barbaric acts in Iraq and Syria and against the terror in the region. We have always said that military support is conditional. Firstly, we must work within the framework of international law. That is the case here. The government in Baghdad in Iraq has asked for help. We must therefore give an answer to that. That is the task of Parliament today. Secondly, the government has always said that we would go to Iraq alone and not to the territory of other states. This is in line with international law; we have always maintained it, and that is what the resolution says. We also said that we would not send ground troops. We'll send our F-16s and a C-130 for logistical support in the operation. It is important to remain within this framework and be able to take responsibility for responding to barbarism. This is obviously not, as we have said several times in committee, exclusively military action. However, I would like to point out that, from a political and humanitarian point of view, through other interventions – particularly against the financial resources of this terrorist organisation – and measures to combat those fighters abroad who sometimes leave our own country, all this must be done. To those who want everything to be implemented first of all on a political or humanitarian level, I would like to remind you, concerning Syria, that for the past three years, all political initiatives have been taken, multiple meetings of the Friends of the Syrian People have taken place, but that every time – as Mr. Dallemagne has reminded us – a veto is used in the Security Council. As a result, no field intervention is feasible. Having said that, we have made every effort in humanitarian terms to help refugees and also to try to gain access to medical facilities in Syria. Here, I repeat, we are in the context of action in full conformity with international law. The Iraqi Government has expressed a request, to which the international community is responding. This response is essential in order to put an end to barbaric actions in the region. Mr President, I would also like to say that we are taking action with the awareness of the risks we face. First, of course, I am thinking of those who are going to participate in the military operation. No military intervention abroad is risk-free. One must think of the military members who participate, but also of their families. We owe them support. It must also be said that there are risks to the civilian populations on the spot, as has already been pointed out. Our military intervenes in a very correct manner, respecting very firm rules of engagement, but we can never guarantee that there will be no civilian casualties in what is known as "collateral damage". We must also think about the risks in Belgium. Unfortunately, we have already experienced the return of jihadist fighters through this drama at the Jewish Museum in Brussels. We must also think, and we do, of Belgians abroad, who can also run risks. Several measures are being taken in this regard. I would also like to answer one or the other question. As far as the questions relating to humanitarian aid in the region are concerned, it is indeed not always easy to get humanitarian aid to the victims. We are trying to do that and we have managed to bring 13 tonnes of food and medicine to Erbil with the C-130. There we work with local NGOs, with local authorities in the region and with the various neighbouring countries, so that aid reaches the population. It is not always easy in Iraq and Syria. Secondly, there was a comment about the fact that F-1673 had already left. This was already the case during operations in Libya. It is clear that diplomatic services, like the defence services, are preparing – and it is happy – an operation in case a decision is made. I simply want to confirm – my Defence colleague will certainly do so as well – that, of course, a prepositioning of the F-16s is already taking place in Greece, but there will be no intervention in an international coalition without a decision by the Chamber. Finally, Mr President, I would like to remind you of two things. In the day-to-day business, of course, any decision must be taken by the government but also by the parliament. That will still be the case in the next few days. Apart from day-to-day business, it is a government decision that is communicated to the House as quickly as possible. The intention is to work, in all cases, with full information from Parliament and with an ability to assess the situation. The government, even in day-to-day affairs, would like to thank all the groups that clearly assume the responsibility of engaging our military in this international coalition because we cannot remain inactive. We cannot remain without a clear decision when we see the barbarism that is raging not only on the ground in Iraq and Syria but which also raged, just a few hours ago, in Algeria and which could again be raging, as was the case at the Jewish Museum in Brussels, on our own territory in the days, weeks or months to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u75	Mijnheer de voorzitter, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. I agree with the general comments of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would like to thank all the Members of the House who have contributed to the drafting of this resolution. I shall confine myself to the military part of the commitment resulting from the resolution adopted in committee which will be adopted here in a few moments' time. Following this resolution, the six F-16s will participate in the military operation requested by the Iraqi government. These F-16s took off from Florennes Air Base this afternoon. As was the case with Operation Unified Protector in Libya three years ago, they were prepositioned in an operational modus on the basis of Araxos. Also this afternoon, a C-130 and an Embraer left with the staff. Refuelling will take place overnight and once the green light is given by the House, we will be able to participate in the operation. That is what we have done at the moment. So six F-16s and two replacements have left for the Greek Araxos. Some members of the Chamber visited this base when we participated in the operation in Libya. An Embraer and a C-130 have also left with equipment and staff. The ravitailing follows. If the Chamber gives the green light to this resolution, they will be able to operate from a base in Jordan as of tomorrow. I had contact with our colleague Delperee. I can also assure you, Mr President, who chaired the Joint Committee on the Monitoring of Military Operations Abroad, that I am at the disposal of both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence, in public or in camera, to follow up on this operation. That's what I had to say, Mr. President. I thank the House for its support.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u76	Mr President, I would like to ask for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u77	All right, if that's what you want, I can also give you the floor to defend your amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the arguments have been exchanged and many speakers have been addressed, both pro and contra and with more or less nuance. However, the fact that a government in current affairs does not wait for Parliament's consent to send the F-1673s to Jordan is an insult to each of the speakers who have spoken here and shows little respect for the democratic institution that Parliament is. I would also like to make this point to you as President of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u79	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u80	Point 4 • 1 - Wouter De Vriendt cs (305/3) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u81	The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u82	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Mr De Vriendt on point 4. (305/3) Vote on Amendment No. 1 by Mr. De Vriendt cs in point 4. (305/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[10]] Yes No. [[115]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 125 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. (A vote was erroneously recorded on behalf of Mr Olivier Chastel.) Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution itself. There is a resolution for the vote which does not close its eyes to a gruesome reality. A resolution that allows us to accept our responsibility. I would like to stress that as President of your assembly, I am satisfied with the fact that in two days' time this Parliament can reach a decision on a question that has been addressed to us. We were able to bring this debate to a successful conclusion on two days in committee and here in plenum. After an adult debate in Parliament, I would also like to underline the need for Parliament to continue to monitor closely the conduct of this mission in the future. I have been asked to make a committee operational. We will present this to the Conference of Presidents next week. Ladies and gentlemen, before voting, I would like to recall a quote from Elie Wiesel, Nobel Peace Prize winner. "Neutrality" is always in favour of the oppressor. Silence encourages the executioner. Neutrality helps the oppressor, never the victim. Silence encourages the executioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u83	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[114]] Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government (305/4). Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the Government (305/4).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u84	By letters of 11 and 16 September 2014, the Prime Minister shall transmit a copy of the Royal Decrees of 11 and 16 September 2014 entitled "Government of the Federal Republic of Germany'. By letters of 11 and 16 September 2014, the Prime Minister transmitted copies of the Royal Orders of 11 and 16 September 2014 entitled "Government – Resignation – Amendment".
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u85	By letter dated 22 September 2014, the Flemish Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 22 September 2014, the Flemish Parliament announced that it had set up its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u86	By letter of 22 September 2014, the Parliament of the German-speaking Community informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 22 September 2014, the Parliament of the German-speaking Community announced that it had constituted itself at today's sitting. Mit Schreiben vom 22. September 2014 teilt das Parlament der Deutschsprachigen Gemeinschaft mit, dass es sich in signaler Sitzung vom 22. September 2014 konstituiert hat.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-09-26-54-plenair-ip005x.u87	By letter dated 24 September 2014, the Walloon Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 24 September 2014, the Walloon Parliament announced that it had constituted itself at today's sitting. The sitting is closed. The Chamber shall be divided until further notice. The meeting is adjourned. The Chamber adjourned until further convocation.
