ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u2	Mr President, we can go beyond some of the fuss if we have to, aren't we, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u3	I know your voice, Mr Penris.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u4	Minister, my question will not surprise you, because I addressed you on the subject last month. The Port Labour Act provides that work in demarcated port areas may only be carried out by authorised port workers. That law is under pressure, because some members of the government team and some patterns in the Flemish port areas want to put pressure on it, on the one hand, and because Europe too continues to put pressure on it recently. I questioned you about this and you said that you would discuss it further in the social dialogue with the partners concerned and that you would contact the relevant European bodies. At that time, I announced that I would deal with this again in December, and I am doing so now. After all, we are faced with a new fact. In Spain, the employers' organisation was condemned by the Court of Justice for continuing to operate in a similar pool system. That might call the port labour law into question a little more. I regret that and will tell you why. Some say that port work in Flanders may be a little too expensive. On the other hand, our dock workers are among the best in the world, not to say, the very best in the world. Our port customers are happy to pay an additional price. What about the law on port work? What contacts have you been able to establish in Europe? What is the government's view on the enforcement of the relevant law?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u5	Mr Penris, you have indeed already asked questions in committee about the state of play of the law on port labour, the Major Act. I would just like to draw your attention to the letter of formal notice by Europe in March 2004. Mrs De Coninck has therefore put forward a number of modernisation proposals to convince Europe that we are responding to Article 49 of the European Treaty, which underlines the freedom of recruitment and services. However, the European Commission has shown us that the important efforts of the previous government were insufficient and did not fully meet the aspirations of the European Commission. Mr Penris, you have rightly referred to the recent judgment condemning the Spanish port labour system. That's a new fact. We're on a lot of business. On 17 December there was a summit meeting between the staff of the European Commission and our cabinet staff and administration. Firstly, we have asked them to have a little more time to look at the dossier and to add the necessary elements to convince Europe that we want to preserve the Major Act, but also modernise it, as far as Europe considers necessary in order not to condemn us. Secondly, we have stressed that this is best done through social dialogue, together with port workers, trade unions and employers. I cannot and should not expose the crown, because that might have a negative impact on the process. In any case, I feel that the social dialogue has come to fruition, step by step, and that in the next few weeks there will be renewed contacts with the social partners and the European Commission in order to modernise the relevant law through social dialogue in a good way as far as necessary for Europe and to resolve the issue to everyone's satisfaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u6	Mr. Secretary, for me, you may uncover the crown as much as you have to. After all, I'm a Republican in that area. I have remembered two important points in your reply. Firstly, you will continue to engage in social dialogue. I cannot stress enough how important that is. I myself come from the Patronal circles, where the social consultation took place at CEPA at the time. Secondly, I have heard you explain something very important. That is what I wanted to hear from you today. I hope you reaffirm your words. You noted that the current government assumes that the principles laid down in the law on port labour are preserved. Are you confirming that or not? Can you confirm that out loud?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u7	Mr President, if I may, I would like to point out that, like the previous government, we will modernise. We also retain the principles and principles of the Major Act. So my answer is yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u8	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u9	Mr President, Minister, in two weeks' time, we will be on January 1, 2015. At that time, a deeply anti-social law, which had been passed under the previous legislature, would come into force, namely that of the exclusion of 32,000 persons who had thus far been entitled to an integration allowance. These people are arriving today at the end of these rights. The vast majority of them are part-time and have not been able to build their fundamental rights, their social rights; 50% of these people will be in the CPAS and 50% are cohabitants. It is therefore mainly women who will suffer this massive exclusion from unemployment benefit rights. Last night, I had a lady on the phone. In tears, this mother of a child told me that she works part-time, that she makes households and that she and her husband together earn 2000 euros a month. Today, by the measure that is imposed, they will lose on 1 January 400 euros and they will have to live on 1,600 euros a month. Worse still, according to FGTB calculations, published this morning in the newspapers of the South Press Group, an additional 20,000 people, who had been spared by the softening of the pre-election campaign, will also be punished by 2017. Nearly 50,000 people will therefore be excluded from the right to unemployment. Minister, STOP Art. 63 § 2 invites me to relay his request for a moratorium on unemployment exclusions on 1 January. Are you ready today, for reasons of social emergency, to apply a moratorium on these measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hedebouw, I have already been questioned several times by various organisations. I know this very well. Yesterday, Ms. Onkelinx and Mr. Daerden also asked questions on the subject. However, the decision was taken in 2012. The Di Rupo government has chosen, as part of the reform of unemployment insurance, to limit integration allowances to three years. You stressed the seriousness of the situation, especially for the young people concerned. We are now faced with many young people who are at the end of those three years. I have consulted the Brussels colleague for work, where there are also concentrations of young people and older people who are confronted with this. I know very well how delicate that is, and I look even further at the problem. We talked yesterday about diplomas and about the measures we added to solve this problem. After all, I would not like many young people to fall two to three months without compensation next year. I cannot answer your question at the moment, but I can tell you that the problem is well known to me and that I take it seriously, but that I also keep to the decisions taken by the federal government and to the government agreement. I am looking at how we can effectively prevent major social incidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u11	Mr President, I do not know if this is a habit in the parties of the majority but every time the PTB makes an inquiry, I am told that the PS voted the measure during the previous legislature. Minister, I have nothing to do with the PS. We represent the uncomplexed left. We would not have voted for this text. I'll be right with you. But I ask you to take a position. Today you have the right to go back to previous decisions and God knows that you are going back to many antisocial decisions. Minister, you can impose a moratorium today. Today is a special day because today the last car is produced in Ford Genk. You know that there are not enough jobs in regions such as Limburg. The VDAB, Actiris and Forem have calculated that there are 40 000 vacant jobs for 1 000 000 people looking for a job. I should therefore like to ask you, Minister, to respond to a social need, to impose a moratorium so that those people do not fall back on an income of EUR 400 to 500 per month from 1 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u12	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last night we discussed the Group of Ten. At that time, we had no answer as to what would be achieved. This morning what no one dared hope happened, an agreement was announced between all the social partners. This agreement was concluded by all the social partners and concerned two important dossiers. The agreement was reached not on the basis of harsh statements but on the basis of dialogue on proposals you submitted on behalf of the government. That is an important step in the right direction. It is also an important political signal to point out that investing in social dialogue pays off, that it leads to agreements and can pave the way for much-needed social peace. With silent shuttle diplomacy, you have managed to bridge the polarization of the past few weeks and get the social partners around the table. This has led to an agreement and it is expected that it will be honoured. However, we are first and foremost interested in the content of the agreement and its further agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u13	Mr Vercamer, yesterday and last night there was a lot of talk about social dialogue. Both the majority and the opposition have rightly stressed the importance of this social dialogue. At that time the people of the Group of Ten sat together to make concrete what was asked here in this hemisphere. We have asked the Group of Ten to express an opinion on two dossiers. Firstly, the so-called loose ends in the first phase of the unitary status of workers-servants. An important step had been taken in this area in the previous legislature, but there were still some discussions and outstanding questions. The Group of Ten hasn't been through that for weeks or months. We have made a number of suggestions in discreet contacts with one and the other to resolve this. That was the first element discussed by the Group of Ten last night. The second element was the six royal decisions which we also delivered to the management committee of the RVA and on which the nuclear cabinet took a decision. The Group of Ten has therefore also looked into this. This morning, we received a letter from the Chairman of the Group of Ten, Mrs Michèle Sioen, who was handed over by carrier and informed that they had reached agreement on the suggestions made by the government and myself for the first phase, the unitary status of workers-servants, as well as an agreement on those royal decisions. We discussed this in the government this morning because we have to look at the agreement first. The agreement is that the federal government will do so as soon as possible and will reply to the Group of Ten. This is a small step for politics, but a big step for social dialogue, because it shows that the Group of Ten is still viable, in difficult circumstances, with polemic statements, and that one can still find one another, even though these two dossiers are not the largest in scope. We should not exaggerate, but it is an important signal. The Group of Ten is not dead. This is perhaps not to our satisfaction, but it is a first, important and positive step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The agreement does indeed offer prospects for the future of social dialogue in other important areas. The government can already give strong support by honouring this agreement. Employers and employees in the non-profit sector are asking for 30 million euros to be converted into 700 additional jobs. They're only waiting for the government's approval. It is expected that the government will also give its approval for this, so that these additional jobs in the non-profit sector can be realised.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u15	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago, when the stories about LuxLeaks and Belgolaks came up here, there was nevertheless a widespread outrage. They are constructions that are perhaps fiscally okay, but they do exceed a lot of ethical limits. We cannot accept this. Just yesterday, a number of companies were added to the list of names such as Thicolux or Rojoluk. You may say this very little, but it is the Luxembourg companies of Thibaut Courtois and Romelu Lukaku. Their colleagues, Mr Hazard, Mr Mirallas and Mr Origi, also have a Luxembourg firm. Everyone undoubtedly knows a number of top athletes with constructions in Monaco. It is therefore a great pity to note that these wonderful footballers, who have become a Belgian national symbol, have their fan base here and shoots for their country, do not like paying taxes in the same country, or at least are encouraged to do so by their advisers. This is particularly unfortunate because with this tax money there is investment in stadiums. There is also a tax incentive for sports clubs provided that they invest that money in the training of new talent. It would therefore be very unfortunate if this new talent, trained with taxpayers' money, turned its back on the same taxpayer and fled to Luxembourg or Monaco for tax purposes. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, what you will do with this. This is likely to be largely fiscally correct, but it is ethical to ask serious questions. I wonder what you'll do with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u16	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, it is obviously not up to the government, not in the past, not today, and perhaps not tomorrow, to make statements on individual tax cases. Moreover, the details of what has appeared in the press, of what I will call the alleged fiscal constructions of some Red Devils, are not known to us at the moment. Members of the national football team shall be selected on the basis of Belgian nationality. However, nationality is not a link to Belgian income tax. It is therefore quite possible that some of the players mentioned in the press are not Belgian nationals and are therefore not taxable at all in Belgium on their worldwide income. As far as I know, there is only one country which uses nationality as a concrete link to income taxes, and that is the United States. With regard to the Red Devils who are still Belgian residents and would have set up constructions in Luxembourg, I am confident that my administration will examine these structures in due course in the light of the current anti-abuse provisions and possibly introduce a viewing tax in the light of the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u17	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your well-founded answer with the necessary nuances. We must be aware of this. There are those who live in Monaco, which we can regret. That will be fiscally correct, but ethical questions can still be asked. We need to include some ethical standards in our taxation. I would like to stress that it is not all bad and tormented, as far as the taxation of footballers is concerned. There are also other role models, such as Timmy Simons and Vincent Kompany, that invest the profits they have accumulated during their successful career as a professional player in our economy and build a follow-up to their career as an entrepreneur. Those are role models and national heroes for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u18	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot fail to express a triple concern about the deterioration of fundamental freedoms in Turkey. A concern for Turkish citizens, a concern for this liberticide which seems to be in place and a concern also for a country which is close to us, geographically or even institutionally - given its request for membership of the European Union - but which is also an essential geostrategic crossroads today. President Erdogan's recent offensive against journalists accused of "participating in a terrorist enterprise aimed at seizing the sovereignty of the State" seems unfortunately only to be the beginning of a larger operation since some sources even mention the possibility of more or less 400 arrests by the end of December. Mr Minister, both the United States and the European Union have been strongly reprimanded. I believe that Mrs Mogherini has officially conveyed her concerns to the European Council. How do you read these events in relation to Turkey's geostrategic importance? By what voice can our government make a reprobation heard?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u19	Mr President, Mr Miller, ladies and gentlemen, I certainly share your concern about the situation in Turkey today. We are obviously attentive through our posts in Ankara, like our Consulate General in Istanbul. The first reaction was expressed through the European Union, a joint reaction by Mrs Mogherini and Commissioner Hahn in a communiqué to which we joined. The terms have been very clear and firm because the actions undertaken are incompatible with the freedom of the media but, beyond that, run counter to basic principles such as the presumption of innocence or the right to independent and transparent investigations. We must therefore be able to respect both the rights of the defence and the freedom of the press. At this Tuesday's General Affairs Council, we reiterated in the Council's conclusions on Turkey this concern about the aspects of media freedom, while wishing to continue a dialogue with Turkey. I would simply add that, since we have now resumed the chairmanship of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe since mid-November, I have been attentive to the reaction of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. This was done by the representative of the Council of Europe in Ankara with the same concerns regarding freedom of the press and the right of defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u20	Minister, thank you for your response. Indeed, whatever opinion one might have on the merits of the application for membership, on the current accession process or at a standstill, I think that we can accept only as close to our borders and with an ally within NATO, as is Turkey, there can be techniques that come out of the law. In my opinion, there is no way to say it differently from opponents and journalists.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, this morning, no doubt under the leadership of the MR and the N-VA, the government decided to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2 for ten years. As I had already had the opportunity to say in committee, this is a choice which I think is purely ideological. This is the choice at all about nuclear – in fact, we can wonder what the CD&V and the Open Vld think – whereas today's problem is nuclear: Doel 3 and Tihange 2 are closed because of insecurity due to cracks and Doel 4 has been sabotaged. It's also a dangerous choice. Indeed, it is done at the expense of the security of all our fellow citizens. For Doel 1 and Doel 2, after the stress tests following Fukushima, nothing was achieved: AFCN had planned to shut down these plants. Today, you decide to extend them while no repairs have been made or validated. This choice is totally ineffective for the future of our security of supply. With this all in nuclear power, we will be in exactly the same situation as today in ten years' time. Indeed, Madam Minister, why would industrialists invest in an energy transition if EUR 800 to 900 million were to be spent on nuclear energy with significant state aid? This choice will cost Belgian households, SMEs and the competitiveness that matters a lot to you. Given these elements, this is ultimately a bad choice. Minister, can you justify this choice? Can the government? I would have liked to hear the Open Vld and the CD&V. Would you dare to say today that this 10-year extension option will regulate security of supply in the short term, i.e. for the 2015 and 2016 winters? Would you like to assure us today that the AFCN has provided you with any relief with regard to the safety of an extension of these nuclear power plants?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u22	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, should I tell you that environmentalists are particularly disappointed? I would like to ask you three questions. The first one is not related to Doel 1 and Doel 2. It concerns Doel 3 and Tihange 2. I would also like to speak here to the CD&V and, in particular, to Mrs Dierick. Madam, you will recall that you said in committee the following: "It is important to rule on the possible judgment of Doel 3 or Tihange 2 before taking a decision on the possible extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2". So my first question is: what is the government's decision on Doel 3 and Tihange 2, as a result of the CD&V requirement? Second question: have you received the agreement of Electrabel? We know very well that, in this case, you decided to give him the keys. Third question: what is the amount of the cheque you will provide? What will be the impact on the citizens' bills of what you have recorded in your small Atoma notebook?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u23	Madam Minister, it is true that Objectives 1 and 2 will be extended for 10 years. What concerns us, Madam Secretary, is why? Is it for the power shortage that might be foreseen in the very near future? No, certainly not, because Elia has clearly stated in committee that by closing Objectives 1 and 2, 100 Megawatt can be imported from abroad. So this problem is solved. Secondly, is it because we want more competition in the sector? I don't think so, because keeping Objectives 1 and 2 open gives you an even stronger monopoly position to Electrabel. Is it for the price? Would you lower the price, Madam Secretary? Too bad, too, because the investments needed to keep Objectives 1 and 2 open are immense, hundreds of millions of euros. Is it because you think of renewable energy? Let us be honest, that would be ridiculous because it is clear that nuclear energy is an energy from the past. This government that always talks about looking to the future for the children and grandchildren. Through this decision, you hypothesize that future. In this way, you are actually saying that alternatives should not be developed anymore, and you are also placing the future on nuclear waste that we really want to get rid of. But above all, Madam Minister, Objectives 1 and 2 are our oldest nuclear power stations. Are we sure it's completely safe there? My question is therefore very simple. Why, Madam Secretary? Is it because there is something the Socialists have done in the past that they want to reduce again? Is it to strengthen Electrabel's monopoly position? Madam Secretary, I really want an honest answer from you, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to make a simple reminder. Tihange 1 will reach the age of 40 on October 1, 2015. Doel 2 will reach the age of 40 on 15 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u25	So what?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u26	Don't interrupt me, I didn't interrupt you! I would like to go to the end of my reasoning quietly; we have time. So I mean, in the previous government, there was an extension of the Tihange 1 plant, which was the same age, in particular, as the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants. Mrs Temmerman, when it is said that Doel 1 and Doel 2 are the oldest, we are mistaken, we forget, and we were in the previous government that has already extended the Tihange 1 power plant for ten years.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u27	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u28	Mr Calvo, you're not asking a question. So you're not interrupting me!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u29	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u30	If I may, I would like to continue with the answer. I have the floor because the president gave it to me, and you shut up! The government is coming out with a first set of measures not only to ensure security of supply in the short and medium term, but also in the long term, the expression of an energy vision that must lead to a coherent development of energy in this territory and that must lead – I have a mandate – not only to the writing of this vision in concrete terms but also to an energy pact. Why did the government make this decision? For eight reasons I will give you after mentioning three observations he made. First, he noted the major uncertainties associated with restarting the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 units. It is not known if they will ever restart and therefore whether or not this capacity will be reintroduced into the network. Second, the planned closure of thermal power plants in 2015 and beyond. Thirdly, the integration of foreign capacities into the Belgian network, which is not possible in the short term. It is for this reason – the first set of measures – that we will ask Elia to continue her efforts to develop the interconnection capacity in accordance with the current schedule. We already have interconnection. But you know very well, and some pretend to ignore it, that if a cold wave spreads over Western Europe and it strikes the South of France, exports stop automatically. This is the same behaviour in each country: when we need our electricity and France needs its electricity, it no longer sends it to Belgium for interconnection. Elia is developing medium-term projects that will have to mature in 2019. These projects would connect us to Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom: Nemo, Brabo, Alegro. Then I was asked to transpose – and the previous government was late in this regard – the provisions of the Energy Efficiency Directive in terms of the federal powers in terms of demand management. This concerns the isolation of federal buildings. Similarly, as Article 15 provides, this concerns the aggregators and therefore everything relating to the flexibility of demand. On this point, discussions are still under way with CREG. This is a long-term measure. I am asked to look for tools to increase supply flexibility, inter alia by examining means of investment in new capacities and to create an energy transition fund with appropriate means, the modalities of which will be subsequently defined to encourage research and development in innovative projects, including production and storage. We are being asked, and I will also deal with it – and this partly responds to your question and the monopoly argument you are applying to Electrabel – to encourage conditions of effective competition in terms of energy production in the territory and to encourage the operator to examine the possibilities of third-party investment in the holding and upgrading of Doel 1 and Doel 2 units. From that day on, I will be given the mandate to negotiate with the operator in favour of the investments of youth to be realized, which were started in 2009, since Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2 were part of the same package, since they were of the same age. These reflections were undertaken as early as 2009 and were interrupted in mid-2012 because the previous government had not decided to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2. We will therefore resume this work. I am therefore in charge, in agreement with Kern, of negotiating with Electrabel for the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 – what I will do from today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u31	Indeed, Mr. Clarinval, you won without being a minister! Minister, I didn't interrupt you. I would therefore like some attention. This case is more than important and we feel like we've fixed it "in a spoon-to-pot"! Is Doel 1 and Doel 2 extended to have a long-term vision of energy? No! Because when we extend the nuclear power by ten years, we give a signal to all investors who will not come to invest because we keep the same producer. There will be insecurity and, therefore, no energy transition within this government, no energy vision for our children. The minister has been a long time; she has said her eight points. I'll take them back.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u32	Everyone has kept to the agreements, including the Minister in reply!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u33	I agree when you talk about the uncertainty about starting Tihange 2 and Doel 3. But tell us that if Tihange 2 and Doel 3 resume, you will close Doel 1 and Doel 2 or the other way around! But don't prolong without knowing it!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u34	Mrs. Lalieux, you only have a minute's reply!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u35	Mr President, she took the time, so I'm taking the time! You know we can't extend Doel 1 and Doel 2 in the short term, there's no more fuel. Minister, when we cut IRE and MYRRHA credits, we don't value research and development. It's fun to make noise because you don't want to hear the truth. The truth is, you don't invest in the energy future! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u36	Mr Devin, there were three questions! The Minister has two minutes of answer per question, a total of six minutes. She spoke for 5 minutes and 39 seconds! So she followed the rules! We can't say that about everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u37	Mr President, after you complain that there are problems! Minister, I asked you three questions. You did not reply to Doel 3 and Tihange 2. On the other hand, you made it clear that you were only going to start negotiations with Electrabel. That is to say, you have kneeled down and it is the latter who will fix the amount of the bill. You have developed the eight points of your press conference. For my part, I can give you eight reasons why this is a very bad decision. 1. It is ineffective and ineffective with regard to the problem of black out. Indeed, as has been pointed out, in committee it takes 18 months to order the fuel. 2. It is expensive (a minimum invoice of 700 million euros). 3. It's dangerous. 4. You're cading the investments. 5. It is in flagrant contradiction with what your party, the CD&V and the Vld voted less than a year ago. 6. You're prolonging the uncertainty. 7. You're driving the country into the past. 8. This is the most important, Mr President: het kan anders!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u38	Madam Secretary, you did not answer the questions at all. I want to make something right first. I was just talking about 100 Megawatts, but of course I meant 1,000 Megawatts. It was a long night, Mr President, so you will excuse me. It's about 1,000 Megawatts. There is indeed an alternative, Madam Minister, but the essence is that you do not look to the future. By keeping these two plants open longer, you are simply hypothesizing the future of our energy policy. There will be no alternatives, no renewable energy. You're extending the old energy form again. I am very surprised that CD&V has let this government roll again. They have indeed stated that they would not tolerate Objective 1 and 2 remaining in operation for longer if there is no first certainty about Objective 3 and Tihange 2. It's up to you to decide. It is very strange, Madam Minister, but this right-wing liberal government is once again introducing a monopoly for one French monopoly!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u39	I welcome the delegation of the Parliament of the Democratic Republic of the Congo currently in the rostrum. I welcome the members of the delegation of the Parliament of the Democratic Republic of Congo, which is currently in the gallery. This delegation is led by Charles Mwando Nsimba, Senior Vice-President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u40	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the climate summit in Lima was concluded last weekend. Of course, we should not always believe the media, but as the media say, agreement on some points would only have been reached in extremes. Let us be clear: there is an agreement and China, among other things, is committed to reducing emissions. However, the challenge remains great. We are dealing with COP 2015. Fabius finally said - and I quote -: 'Il restera beaucoup à faire à Paris luckan prochain'. A global, binding climate deal must therefore be concluded for Paris in 2015. We have to say it the way it is. Our country did not make a very good turn at the climate summit. There was the same cause over and over again, namely the lack of agreement between the different entities of our country. First of all, there was the embarrassment about the contribution to the Green Climate Fund. We have to say it the way it is. Eventually, our federal minister, Alexander De Croo, released in extremes the amount of EUR 50 million at federal level. Madam Secretary, the government is therefore taking responsibility. If possible, the distribution of the Belgian climate effort is even more problematic. Our country has committed itself in Europe. I am adding the document to reduce emissions by 15% by 2020, to generate 13% of energy from renewable sources and to become more energy efficient. However, in order to achieve these objectives, a key between all our governments is needed. We have to see today that that key is missing. I have not been here very long, but I understand that the most recent meeting of the Consultation Committee dates back to 19 March 2014. Meanwhile, the European Commission and the European Environment Agency warn that it will be very difficult to reach the targets 2015-2020. Madam Minister, first of all, when will the next meeting of the Consultative Committee or the Climate Committee take place to share the effort? Secondly, has the Federal State itself done its homework and determined its contribution to the effort? Thirdly, what do you think of Brussels' Environment Minister Fremault's idea of setting up a climate agency?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u41	The climate conference in Lima was concluded last week. There the basis was laid for a global and binding agreement at the next summit to be held in Paris in 2015. The final text, which was adopted in Lima, reassured the growing countries, including China and India, because they feared that the efforts requested would weigh too heavily on their economies. This gesture marks the government's willingness to guarantee Belgium's pioneering role in the fight against climate change. The government agreement provides that, in order to achieve the Belgian objectives of the EU's 2020 climate and energy package, the government will have to finalize as a matter of priority the cooperation agreement on the sharing of Belgium's climate and energy objectives for the period 2013-2020, taking into account the contribution of each party, i.e. the federal and the regions, to the achievement of Belgium's objectives. Moreover, on this subject, I must point out that I must meet incessantly the Walloon Region, which contributed EUR 1 million, the Brussels Region, which contributed EUR 600,000 and the Flemish Region, which has made other choices for the time being. I want to be particularly proactive because I want to make the Paris Conference an important moment in the fight against climate change. On this occasion, I hope that before March, Belgium will speak with one voice and make the collective interest take precedence over the regional interest. I will be making contacts at the beginning of 2015 with representatives of regional governments. This is essential for our credibility in Paris.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u42	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I have to say that the government will not shirk its responsibilities in this respect. However, a healthy portion of cooperation federalism will have to be dealt with in order to close that deal. I quote Henri IV: "Paris vaut bien une messe".
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u43	Mr Janssens, I congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u44	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we all remain extremely concerned about the development of the situation in Syria and Iraq, although some successes have been achieved by the troops involved in the coalition. Some cities have been saved. Some refineries have been recaptured. I believe that this is due in particular to the efforts of Belgian troops and Belgian F-16s engaged in Iraq. I understood that the Council of Ministers had taken an important decision this morning concerning the extension of this Belgian effort, or even an enlargement to send leadership troops. No fighting troops since this is not the object of the Iraqi government's request, nor of the forces based in Iraqi Kurdistan. I would therefore like to know some details about the deployment of these troops. Can you tell us more about the role they will play? Will they get out of their military quarters? Will they be in the field? Will they be limited to training, advice, or will there be other elements? Will they work in coordination with other European troops? Will they aim to save the lives of some hostages? I'm talking about this because I've just had a call this morning for help from Yezidi women who have just escaped dramatic situations. They were hostages in northern Iraq. Today they call for help so that their sisters, their daughters, can be released from the hands of Daesh. Is the idea to have a collaboration between troops who were allegedly trained by Belgian special forces and our F-16 aircraft, to release these hostages?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u45	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, thank you for your question. Indeed, the Council of Ministers has given its approval for the entire list of operations that I proposed in 2015, including the dispatch of ground management troops to Iraq. For your information, the planned budget is 6.77 million. This means that up to 50 military personnel could be contributed for one year. I asked first to send two planners to look at the situation, see what we can do and where. Then we'll decide what kind of troops we'll send to Iraq. To be very clear, we are not going to a war zone, we are not going to participate in battles, the contribution of our military is specifically limited to training and advice. It is not like in the past in other places, our effort is limited to that training and advice. For the time being it is true, but all this will be confirmed once our people have been there, that it is foreseen that we will work together with the Germans, in the same camp. The place has yet to be determined, a number of locations have been specified, but you will understand that I will address the committee responsible to clarify that type of detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u46	Mr President, Minister, we have always been in favour of extremely limited troops, who remain in a consultative role, who are not fighting or located on the front line: all this is obvious and does not correspond to the demand of the Iraqi government or the Peshmerga, whom I had had the opportunity to meet certain commands. To paraphrase General Francis Briquemont, you know "that a war that started on the ground is winning on the ground". So F-16s alone, unfortunately, cannot be enough to release these hostages, in particular. I stress a great deal: there, women are living in situations of extreme cruelty. I hope that our troops will have the priority of helping the Iraqis, the Peshmerga and the Kurds to free them because their existence must be unbearable.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, as was agreed yesterday, a meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee is now taking place in the International Hall. In the meantime, we will continue our work here.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u48	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u49	Mr President, today we are celebrating International Migrant Day and a whole series of citizens in our country have decided to create a Together for Dignity platform and have organized a large gathering in front of the Palais de Justice in Poelaert Square with, among them, citizens of all faiths, of all origins, workers, artists, leaders of associations, lawyers... All gathered to show their outrage with regard to the vision that was proposed on immigration, on asylum, a pessimistic vision, a negative vision that is now reflected in Mr Franken's political orientation note. What had particularly shocked those responsible for this platform, of course, were the sentences that had been posted by Mr. Franken on his personal site. I will not go back to the subject, but I would like to say here, before the representatives of the population, that indignation continues to be experienced on the ground and that a great number of people are mobilizing around this issue. The Secretary of State, as far as the budget is concerned, it is not uncommon when a government intends to cut its expenditure so drastically without affecting the volume of its revenue that it is the most precarious among the population that makes the first payment. Among the most precarious, it would have been surprising to see this government save the most vulnerable, the refugee candidates. It is therefore not so surprising that they have not even waited to vote on the budget to start implementing certain aspects of this programme. As regards asylum and immigration, this is simply achieved by the closure of 2,000 reception places on 1 January 2015. This measure is experienced by my group and others as a real frontal attack against the tradition of a welcoming, humanist and tolerant Belgium that remains in the history of our country. She will also have the sad honour of making the first victims among State agents. In fact, we are talking about redundancies of workers in charge of supervising the places thus abolished; a dismissal without development, since according to the workers, they had to receive this sad news by a simple small letter announcing the end of their activity from the beginning of January next. Whether it was the families of refugee candidates or workers who were now unemployed, we could have hoped to have more happy news to celebrate the end-of-year celebrations. Unfortunately, it was decided otherwise. But this is not the only bad news, the only shadows that this budget leaves. They are only the reflection of two elements which, in our view, are more than obvious. First, there is the government's willingness to reorient these means towards the collective reception that it is open and, above all, closed. As I have already said in committee, this is a counterproductive will, in our view, because it is known that individual reception is less costly for the public authorities than its collective counterpart and more effective in the integration of refugee candidates. And yes, we must be able to talk about integration! Even if not everyone likes it, half of the candidates are destined to settle in our territory for a long time. That is the reality. Not having the concern, as soon as they arrive in Belgium, about the integration of these candidates into our population is a lack of respect for them, but above all a lack of vision in the case of the reception of asylum seekers. Secondly, Mr Franken, there is a clear lack of means to carry out a policy worthy of that name that requires respect for candidates as working conditions for State officials dealing with cases. This lack of resources jeopardizes the guarantee that every case, every candidate will be treated with all the attention he deserves. However, this guarantee must extend to all aspects of the procedure, from the request submitted in the country of departure to the arrival on our territory and even – I say "even" – to a possible forced return which must always be made under conditions that place respect for human dignity at the heart of the concerns. I will certainly have the opportunity to come back tomorrow during the discussion of the programme law on a number of other elements. But I can only urge you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to vote against a part of this budget that will not only strike refugee candidates, workers in a difficult sector, but will also put our country – I say "our country" – in a position not to meet its international obligations as a result of the population movement resulting from the international situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, today is the day of migration, the international day of the migrant. I think it is an honour for us to speak today about your migration policy in Parliament. Theo Francken is not allowed to attend party parties of partymates. Theo Francken was not allowed to be critical of migration policy in temporary non-suspecto as a member of the opposition and should now apologize for a Facebook post he posted political light years ago. Theo Francken apologizes, but some say that if one knows him, one sees that his apologies are not serious. Those same people say today in the same column and in that same breath that they don't really know Theo Francken. Mr Secretary of State, it was not easy for you in the first few months of this legislature. I think you'd better get used to it. I believe that the real reasons are and remain that Theo Francken and his party are right when they say that the lax migration policy must be limited, which is based on the PS era and is therefore deeply rooted in Belgian policy, in Belgian law. Theo Francken is part of a government that started the previous legislature on that turn, but which was sometimes muzzled by the same PS who then drew the red lines. That is no longer the case. Finally, after decades of working in the margins on the entanglement, objectification, clarification, upgrading migration policy, this government can now go full-scale. Not everyone just push in that Belgian pool, whether they can swim or not, whether they're wearing a swimsuit or not. No, you can't go in the pool until you know how to swim in the laps. A 25-meter license will do. Then everyone gets on the springboard and the pool master can rest assured. That's how people get to the edge safely. Mr Secretary of State, the policy on asylum and migration has already undergone profound changes in recent years, especially during the past legislature. The federal government now wants to go further along this path. We see this in the different facets of your policy statement. In the European context, you rightly state that migration should not be viewed from a walled society or from an island reflex. It is not really necessary, but in the event that the people would have evil thoughts and would want to misunderstand you or dare to suspect bad faith in your words, you will again explain that Belgium will fully fulfil its international obligations and will protect every refugee with a well-founded fear of persecution. It is to be welcomed that, following what was included in the government agreement, you will work for the effective transposition of all EU directives by all EU Member States and for practical cooperation on asylum policy. It will indeed be a good thing for you to change our asylum procedure in line with those European directives. This can only benefit a uniform assessment of asylum applications within Europe. As far as resettlement of vulnerable refugees is concerned, we read in your policy statement and in the government agreement that this government wanted to go further along this path. In cooperation with the UNHCR, you want to continue structuralally working on that agreed growth path. In 2015, you want to resettle 150 refugees. You announced in committee two weeks ago that, in view of the global context and the crises in the world, including in Syria, you, together with the government, decided to raise that figure of 150 refugees to 300. That is one of your first very good policy actions, Mr Secretary of State. As the OCMW chairman of a city centre, I am a very strong supporter of the changed reception model. After all, you intend to adapt the FOIs, the LOIs and the reception by the reception partners. As these changes in asylum policy were already launched in the previous legislature under Secretary of State De Block, the lead times have become much shorter. The principle that preference should be given to collective reception and that individual reception in the LOIS should initially be reserved to asylum seekers who have received a positive decision or whose positive decision is very plausible is a very good choice. This will only facilitate the work of the OMCWFs and the social workers. The aim may now be to use these local reception initiatives during the reception period to accompany those almost recognised or recognised refugees in their search for work, language training or childcare. This can fully activate the potential social aspect of the care in the LOIS. I do not believe that anyone in this House is opposed to people who, according to international rules, may be admitted to our society being prepared for that independent new beginning for a certain period of time. Mr Secretary of State, you also face a number of major challenges. One of the main challenges is to rewrite the Foreigner's Act from 1980 to a clear migration code, with unambiguous and closing procedures. It will be your greatest challenge and it will be a monk's work. Your predecessor started her term of office by announcing the same ambition, but that term of office was shorter and other migration problems arose, which did not solve the intention. So I am pleased to hear that you will be starting a working group in 2015, in two weeks' time, so that you can come to Parliament with that transparent migration code by the end of the term of office. A transparent migration code will be able to build on that active, uniform and coherent migration policy, which sets out the principles you know: to counter multiple applications without changing circumstances, to counter long and parallel procedures, to introduce a fair right of role following neighbouring countries and to facilitate short-stay visas for tourists coming here, for example to visit their families. The group of unaccompanied minors is extremely vulnerable. I am sure that Mr Lanjri will discuss this in a moment. It is very good that you want to work out the life project, so that the young person who has to go back to his home country, gets a good luggage and has a good basis for building up the rest of his life in that home country. Mr Secretary of State, my stick horse in the previous legislature consisted of convincing the then majority parties of the importance of keeping regularisation to the strict minimum. You will not be surprised, therefore, that my group and I are very pleased to hear and read that, during this period of government, regularisation will become even more an exception procedure than before and that collective regularisation will be excluded. I am convinced that if you introduce your policy on rapid procedures and on a correct and humane return policy, you will automatically reduce the need and demand for these individual regularisations. Painful discussions such as those of Scott Manyo or Parwais Sangari can be avoided or avoided as much as possible. Last but not least, in your policy statement you mention the need for a correct return policy, voluntarily if possible, forced if necessary. Mr Secretary of State, the current figures for both forced and voluntary return are alarming. It's a good thing you don't hide them. It is even more to your credit that you have the firm intention to improve those figures. In doing so, you focus on the illegal offenders. This is a logical consequence of this government's statement that criminals or people who pose a threat to public order must be tackled as a matter of priority. In this case, it is not even about withdrawing the stay. They had no legal residence. Again: transparent, correct and clear. Mr Secretary of State, I will conclude this speech. I compared migration policy to a swimming pool. Mr. Lifeguard, you don't need a bathing cap. I wanted to buy you a yellow bathing hat, but our work doesn't allow us to do Christmas shopping. In any case, you do not need a bathing cap, although you will have to wet your chest occasionally. I'm sure the pool visitors are in good hands and you'll make a good lifeguard. I wish you every success in this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, during the last few weeks we were able to discuss the policy paper and the budget in detail, including your policy. I will not go into all the points again. We have talked about care, about family reunification, about dealing with abuses, about return, and so on. I will not repeat everything, but I would like to deal with a number of aspects. For our group, it is essential to have an asylum and migration policy that is balanced, that protects those who need it, and that also contains sufficient guarantees that people who rightly apply for a residence permit who receive it quickly, within a legal certainty framework. I would like to address three aspects of your policy: the asylum procedure, unaccompanied minors and the right to roll or residence tax. Firstly, it is clear that the path we took in the previous legislature was the right one. We have succeeded in shortening the asylum procedure. In the past, the asylum procedure lasted a year or more while we managed to bring it down to 6 months in the previous legislature, including the appeal procedure. We must maintain that lead time. We must ensure that the average of 6 months is guaranteed. This also means that we must ensure, even in times of budgetary difficulty, that our asylum authorities, the Commissioner for Refugees and the Stateless, DVZ and the RVV, continue to have sufficient resources to ensure rapid procedures. Secondly, there is still a huge delay in certain bodies today, in particular at the Court of Appeal, in the Council for Aliens' Contests. There are no fewer than 27 000 files waiting to be dealt with there, and I know that most of them have nothing to do with asylum files but with other migration files, such as family reunification files or regularisations. Those people often have to wait months and months for a decision of the Council on Alien Contests. Mr Secretary of State, we ask you, together with the President-in-Office of the Council for Foreign Affairs, to take the necessary steps and take the necessary measures to deal with this delay of 27 000 files in a reasonable period of time. After all, we cannot allow people to wait months and sometimes even years for a decision. This delay must therefore be dealt with. I would also like to argue that we should continue to follow the path that we followed in the previous legislature. We have made sure that the crisis in reception has been contained in the past legislature. Of course, there were fewer asylum seekers, the number of asylum seekers has been reduced in the past legislature. However, we have ensured that there were no people without shelter, that everyone was taken care of. It is also important that we continue to do so, despite the fact that the previous government, and also now again by you, decided to reduce the number of shelters. In itself that makes sense, one should not keep open centres where the occupation is very low. It is clear that there too there is a desire for a rational policy, for a considerable increase in reception capacity and for fewer places to be kept open. It is intended to go to 16 000 reception places and 2 200 buffer places. This should normally be sufficient to accommodate asylum seekers, even if there would be a temporary increase in the number of asylum applications. Mr Secretary of State, I would specifically like to ask you to ensure a level playing field between individual care and collective care, and above all to ensure that people arrive in the right places. Moreover, we agreed in the government agreement that people should in principle be taken together, but that people who need more protection should be treated individually by certain groups that are weaker, including single people with children or asylum seekers who have a great chance of staying in the country. This should ultimately lead to a fairly balanced distribution between individual reception points and collective reception points. I would also urge that the number of buffers or reserve places should be nicely divided between the various reception initiatives. It must not be the case that the private sector or NGOs have to keep much more buffer places open, while the collective centres have to provide a less large number. I'd like to see those numbers balanced. A second point I would like to address is the unaccompanied minors. You know, Mr Francken, that we have always drawn attention to people who are struggling, to the weak, also within the framework of migration policy. Unaccompanied minors are certainly covered. I am also pleased that you, along with me, think that we should provide additional protection for unaccompanied minors. It is a good thing that we have already taken a first step during the previous legislature and that the unaccompanied minors who did not apply for asylum have offered additional protection. We agreed in the new coalition agreement that we would make two procedures possible so that young people such as Parwais and others arriving here without parents or guardians would be even better protected. We must ensure that, even if they apply for asylum, they can start the procedure to be protected at the same time. I am pleased that our legislative proposal has the support of all the majority groups. I hope that we will soon be able to discuss and approve it together in committee so that we can give these young people the support and protection they really need. In that light, I also insisted on doing so again today in order to make sure that it is possible to reach a simplified procedure. If we say that it should be possible for these young people to combine the two procedures, then I also think it would be useful for the research carried out today by the Commissioner for Refugees and the Stateless to be carried out immediately by the Commissariat and the DVZ together, so that what is best for young people and so that everything is done in one movement and no two or three separate procedures should be initiated. We also know, of course, that not every young person in our country will be allowed to stay. That was never meant to happen. If young people can be reunited with their parents, then we must take care of that, because young people are ultimately best at home in their own home country. To the extent that this is possible, we must ensure that this is done, but this requires an additional effort. So far there has been far too little cooperation with the parents. When a decision was made to send the young people back to the country of origin, too little was made on the supervision of the parents or the involvement of the parents. If we want the return of these young people to be sustainable and to be successful, then we will definitely have to cooperate more with these parents. Finally, my third and final point is the introduction of roll-over rights. I would like to stress that, in the government agreement, we agreed that the introduction of the role law and also the introduction of a residence tax that can be levied by the municipalities should be fair and proportionate. They must therefore not exceed the carrying capacity of the person concerned. It cannot be the intention, for example, that people should not be able to do family reunification because the right of role that is demanded is far too high. I would therefore urge that this tax be introduced fairly. Of course, the two taxes must be looked at at at the same time. That's what the Council of State is asking for. When determining the amount for one tax one must bear in mind how much one is going to ask at the other level. That needs to be looked at together. So far, our concerns. We will take care of this because we believe it is important to pursue a correct, humane and balanced asylum and migration policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a point to Mrs Smeyers. I find it strange that you re-emerge the facts of political light years ago with regard to Mr Francken. However, there has been a lot of discussion about this, also a lot of social discussion. Sometimes I get the impression that you like to do that because you can create a scapegoat in politics. As everyone in Flanders knows, scapegoats like to be seen and attractive to choose. Now I just want to take a look at the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u53	Mrs. De Coninck, I may not be allowed to see it as an honor that you mention my name. However, it is perhaps a good thing that you use your ten minutes to effectively attack Mr Francken's policy, if you have any need or arguments for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u54	You have also used your speaking time to mention a number of things that were not to the point. You don't have to touch me for that. I have said a few times, also in committee, that I looked forward with some curiosity to the change in the policy on asylum and migration. This is important because there are many challenges, including economic challenges, for the future. Migration can play a role in this. It is actually a missed opportunity, not only of you but also of the previous policy leaders, that Belgium does not develop policies that deal with migration and integration in a much more positive way. In the end, the debate always ends with asylum and, to a lesser extent, migration. There are a lot of migratory movements going on today, from Europe and further parts of the world to our country. I consider the debate on social dumping and workers from the EU Member States to be at least as important as those from the periphery who come here to work and disrupt the labour market. I can't find anything about that. You will say that this covers different areas of competence. That's true, but the N-VA is in about all governments and can arrange and arrange things. I therefore believe that the letter and the budget are only about asylum. Mrs Smeyers, it is essentially a question of continuing the policy of the previous government. Mrs De Block has made great efforts in this area, together with her fellow Members. However, it is all a bit more punitive, with a bit more breast-knocking. You want to get your chest wet, you say, so there's gonna be boob-knocking, whether that chest is wet or not. You speak of one aircraft per month for repatriations, shorter procedures and less reception capacity. You want to achieve more results with less resources. That's very honorable. Trying to increase efficiency is very okay. One can always try that. However, I must warn you, Mr Francken. Mr Francken, I must warn you, because the previous government and the previous Secretary of State have already put a great deal of pressure on structures and staff. I think they're almost on their gums. You also want to save 20 % on operating equipment. That seems simple, but what does it mean in concrete terms? Saving 20% on public resources means in practice EUR 15 million less for refugee associations, EUR 18 million less for local reception initiatives and savings on medical costs for asylum seekers. That is as if you, as a pool manager, make sure that those who enter the water cannot be saved. The major challenge is to provide the resources and pay the hours in particular, so that positive policies can be identified for those concerned. I am referring, among other things, to the war in Syria and the Ebola epidemic, and to a number of migratory flows. You say you will recover resources by introducing a rolling tax. Anyone who needs papers will have to pay for it. There are many exceptions to this. If I read it correctly, the main thing is to pay for documents relating to family reunification. Now I thought that in previous legislatures, joint initiatives were taken by various parties to limit family reunification. I am also a little conservative: I think we should actually encourage bringing parents together with their children. That gives social capital, that gives security to people. I think we're still for the family after all. Only imposing a roll tax on that group can we have a hard time living with that. I believe that the Council of State will find it difficult to do so on the basis of the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u55	Mrs. De Coninck, if I wasn't sitting here firmly on my chair, I'd really fall off my chair. You used to think, not so long ago, from the OCMW in Antwerp that it was not done that so many people also passed on their parents, in-laws and grandparents. Now you argue that they should transfer their parents, their parents-in-law and their grandparents.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u56	No, I said that we have all been involved in reducing family reunification, which I think is a good thing. However, in bringing parents together with children I agree. Someone's allowed to transfer their partner and children. That's a family for me. Those aren't the grandparents and the married family. You misunderstood me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u57	Mrs De Coninck, then we have understood each other very well. This is already the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u58	That is why I am wondering why a further roll tax should be created. After all, this is already extremely limited, especially for the family lords, who actually bring a lot of positives.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u59	Mr President, I have withdrawn from the list of speakers, but I would like to make a brief statement from my bench because I am not taking part in the debate. I had an exchange with Mr. Jambon yesterday. It is difficult to debate something that does not actually exist. Clearly, this government has made the choice of no longer having an asylum policy in Belgium. In his note, the Secretary of State states that "now one of his priorities is to protect public order and national security". I called yesterday Minister Jambon, asking him who was the Minister of the Interior and when we would have an asylum policy worthy of that name. It seems that there is confusion in the posts. I therefore expect that there will be an agreement between Mr Jambon and Mr Franken on the responsibilities of both in order to be able to hope for an asylum policy note worthy of that name.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u60	Mr President, I would like to comment on some of the comments that have been made. Over the last few weeks and months, we have already had an intense debate on this subject. Many comments are coming back now. I am, of course, always at the disposal of the Chamber to go into it and to give some explanation here and there in a number of decisions of the past few weeks. Mr Kir, you say that there was today a protest of a thousand people on Poelaert Square. Many people have indeed come together there. I don't think how many of them were right is so relevant. You say it was a nice group. That's right. I received a delegation from those people in the Cabinet. I'm a man of dialogue. We had a very frank discussion about their besognes. These are citizens who are concerned about the asylum and migration policies that this government will pursue. I think I have been able to answer some of their questions. There were also a number of people from the collective La voix des Sans-Papiers. There was someone here who is currently some sort of spokesperson for the sans papers from Molenbeek. You will no doubt know that there is a large group of sans papers there. We have had a very frank discussion about what to do with sans paper, regularisation, economic migration and economic regularisation. Those cases were discussed. We have also made a number of agreements and will continue to do so. The phenomenon of sans paper that occupy buildings like churches and so on is not new. Even when your party was part of the government there were. It exists in many European countries, that people demand regularisation and strengthen their application through hunger strike or by occupying certain buildings. That's not new. It's no different now. The line taken by the previous government under Mr Di Rupo was that no reference was made to the demands of hunger strikers because this is a kind of blackmail of which one knows the beginning but not the end. I don't think this was an unwise line. In short, the debate has started today. I have entered into dialogue and will also continue to engage with all concerned citizens. I believe it is my responsibility to further explain the migration policy of this government, which is a good migration policy, to the concerned citizens throughout the country. Secondly, you have said dozens of times that in my policy paper there is a negative view of migration. You have never been able to prove or prove that, except here and there an intention process. The word protection, protection, is many times more common in my policy paper than the words abuse and fraud. In fact, I have shown that to you in numbers. You can continue to say that there is a negative view of migration, but that is not the case. I'll keep saying that. You can say a, I keep saying b. This government is not based on a negative view of migration at all. The first words of my policy paper even say that migration is the challenge of the 21st century. We want to work on migration in a positive way, but we also need to be realistic. Like any Western government, ours also has many challenges in terms of migration. There is no difference between our challenges and those of the Netherlands, France and so on. We are all in Europe, and European migration and asylum policy will only become stronger and stronger in the coming years. We will have to act together. You refer to the growing conflicts in the world, such as the problems in the Middle East with 3.6 million refugees and the boat refugees who die every day in the Mediterranean. You are right to say that such matters should be dealt with jointly. In this sense, we must all work together, all the governments of our country and all the Member States of the European Union. Thirdly, you say that the budget is very limited and you wonder how all this will be done, Mr Kir. Mrs De Coninck says that so much has already been asked of the staff. I can only say the following. We need to save money. Each department has its responsibility and must save on operation, staff and investment. I will look for solutions as creatively as possible. Everyone has to do that. You're also mayor yourself, if I'm not mistaken. In the municipalities too, one must be creative in terms of savings and tackling problems, especially in budgetary difficult times. I am creative in this and I try to find solutions, although that is not always obvious. However, I do not agree that one of the first measures would be the removal of 2 000 places. Mr Kir, I am indeed closing 2 000 places because Fedasil needs to save EUR 16 million. For the sake of clarity, and I have also said this today during a television interview, this still means that every candidate refugee has a place. It is not because we delete 2 000 places that there would be no room. There are 2 000 places less, because there are fewer asylum applications. There are fewer applications and so places are deleted. We have a capacity utilisation rate of 74% and we have to save. It is obvious that if a quarter of the places are not used, they look at it. Mr Kir, I will not do that all the time, but I would like to refer to the previous government, which has closed down 6 000 places. In 2012 there were 24 000 places, now there are 18 000 and I am going to 16 000. In itself, that's good news, right? I find your attitude bizarre. In our neighbouring countries France and the Netherlands there is a huge increase in the number of asylum applications. In Sweden, there are 80 000 to 120 000 asylum applications this year and in Germany, 200 000; that is what is happening. In these countries one has the hands in one's hair and one has to provide additional places every day. Last week I spoke in my cabinet with my Dutch colleague, Mr Teeven, and he asked how we could manage this in Belgium, because in the Netherlands he has to open places every week. I can only be satisfied with the situation in our country. We must be satisfied that we can close places instead of reopening them. We have had to open up places in times of crisis, such as the asylum crisis and the Balkan crisis of 2010, 2011 and 2012. I don't understand you very well. There's no other way than that you're also satisfied with closing places? There is room for everyone and there will be room for everyone. We have provided a buffer of 2 000 places. Again, I do not fully understand your reasoning. Mr Di Rupo, your government closed 6 000 places in two and a half years, and that was apparently very good. I close 2 000 because the number of asylum seekers remains stable and even decreases in the last three months and you ask why I have closed places. The closure of the sites was very correct, on the basis of a number of objective parameters proposed by Fedasil. Mr Luxen has made a proposal and my administration has done so. After long discussions, we have discussed this and I think it is a very balanced proposal. Our decision last week to close down the Virton center was not an easy decision. It wasn't lightly crossed. If I have understood you correctly, and you may clarify this, it was announced through a small paper that a number of places would be closed. I spoke to Mr Luxen this morning. At the moment, my services and the Director-General of Fedasil are sitting with the people of the centre in Virton and with the trade unions to have a social dialogue on that closure. So claiming that this happened via a small piece of paper, un petit courtier, is not correct. If you are in possession of un petite driver, I would like to hear you say that and I would like you to hand it over to me, because that would not be a sensible way of working. There was a telephone call to each center and a clear communication. Is that easy? No, that's not easy. Mrs De Block and Mr Di Rupo also did not enjoy closing seats during the previous legislature. It was 6 000 places and hundreds of jobs. However, that is the consequence of asylum policy. Less influx means less places. It would be awesome to keep open places we don't need. So it's just common sense. That's biting through the sour apple, which of course isn't easy. That is the result. The big picture, however, remains positive. Mr Kir, you also disagree with the accommodation model. You don't like the accommodation model. You say that I no longer choose individual places, although they would give a greater chance of integration. However, I would choose a collective story. That's partly true. The government has opted very clearly for the collective as the norm. Mrs Lanjri also spoke about this. Collective care will be standardized, albeit with a number of very important exceptions, namely vulnerable groups, single people, people with disabilities and, finally, people with a high degree of recognition. There are a lot of them at the moment. More than 90% of the Syrians who are due to be the largest group shall be recognised within a period of three weeks. The same applies to Kurds. Those people go to an individual shelter, not a collective shelter. Now claiming that there is an incredible imbalance between individual and collective care is not correct and the figures I get from my administration are not at all accurate. Again, if you have any other figures, get them to me because I'd like them. The forecasts that we can make on the basis of the distribution between collective and individual reception and on the basis of the influx that we now have, being a completely different influx than in 2010 with Balkan refugees, of whom almost no one was recognised, do not indicate that. Now we are faced with the biggest humanitarian crisis since the Second World War and with a huge flow of refugees. Almost all refugees are recognised, albeit as refugees, but protected as a subsidiary. They go to individual care and not to collective care. It is therefore a strange remark that you have made for the third time. However, I have already tried to explain it to you. That is the third time I have tried to clarify the matter. I would like to repeat it 30 times, if necessary, that is not a problem. Mrs Lanjri expressed her concern about the duration of the asylum procedure. Compared to the other European countries, we are quite tight. We are well aware of our procedures and deadlines. I believe that good work has been done in this area. Given the need to save, this should be kept in mind. I have taken the right call from almost all the political groups on this issue. We must continue to raise these concerns. The logic is that, in the case of savings in asylum services, asylum seekers have the right to bed, bath and bread, they are paid ten times more in the asylum centres, because they will stay there longer. We are trying to complete the files as quickly as possible. That logic fits like a bus and stands like a house. I believe that a number of other measures can also be taken. Mr Van den Bulck has been re-appointed by the government as Commissioner-General for a period of five years. I wish him good luck. He is open to any debate with Parliament. That is also in our coalition agreement. As far as I am concerned, the debate can certainly come. I believe that Mr Van den Bulck will be happy to come to Parliament to discuss it with Members of Parliament. I wrote a letter to Mr Van den Bulck last week asking for the list of safe countries to be extended, because I find it strange that there are many countries on the list of safe countries of other European Member States, but not with us and vice versa. A country that is safe from the French asylum services is not for the Belgian, but for the Dutch. He will carry out an investigation into this matter and I expect its outcome in the course of January. I hope that he will then make a number of suggestions, which we will then include in our policy. I think it is extremely important to extend the list of safe countries. After all, the 15-day procedure has prevented the Balkan crisis from happening. That has been an extremely important element. During the current period, discussions were often held with Mrs Smeyers. In the end, the list was introduced and I believe that it has really helped to overcome the Balkan crisis. An extension of the list of safe countries is not a panacea, but an important instrument. I'm really convinced of that. I hope to get positive and good news from the CGVS. With regard to the delay in the RVV, I can only say that I share the concern. There'll be backup. The promised reinforcement has not come through the recruitment stop for officials under the previous government, but we are working on it. I take that to heart. There is a huge backlog there, the biggest backlog we currently have in the whole of migration contentieux. So we are certainly going to work on that, even though I am aware that it is a serious delay. As far as unaccompanied minors are concerned, I visited the observation centre in Lower Over Heembeek this morning and I learned a great deal there again. Last week I brainstormed with an association of guardians OLIV. Before the elections, we had a debate on this. I've learned a lot from that. I had a meeting with the Minister of Justice last Friday, since he is responsible for the custody service. I will also continue to work on that theme. I can only hope that the Home Affairs Committee will approve your proposal as soon as possible, so that the pitfall of illegal residence is avoided as much as possible. I keep repeating what I have said here several times, namely that unaccompanied minors are not my target group. For removals, I will not focus on the well-integrated young people who come here at 12, 13 or 14 years of age, being assigned a guardian and then staying here illegally for a period from 18 years par accident. I don't see why. I will focus on those who have committed crimes here, who come out of prison and cause nuisance here. Mrs Lanjri, according to the government agreement, the right to roll must be fair. You'd like to repeat that. It'll be fair, too. We'll discuss that tomorrow when we deal with the program law. You will undoubtedly say again that it must be fair and I will say again that it will be fair. We will continue to discuss this in the government and the majority. The KB has yet to be drawn up. There is therefore no commitment of EUR 225, which is clearly incorrect. I never said that. I believe that I have explained that sufficiently. We will discuss this. In any case, we must ensure that the right to roll is sufficiently cost-effective. A fee which should partly cover the costs of an administrative operation should also be substantial. The fact that it is combined with the local tax which may be introduced as a fee is also correct. That's right. That is what the European Court of Justice and the Council of State are asking for. We'll do the same. We'll work on that. You have my commitment. We also need to think carefully about what we do with minors. We'll get out of that. It must be substantial, sufficiently cost-effective. It should not be a brake in the sense that it will be priceless, because that would not pass the test on European law and international law either. The Netherlands has been convicted of this. One asked, if I am correct, 820 euros. After the conviction it is 225 euros and that will last. We need to discuss how we are going to determine that correctly, but I have already given some ideas. Mrs De Coninck, you are asking for a more positive way of looking at migration and integration. Frankly, I think that over the last ten years we in the Flemish Government have tried together to write a positive story about integration, including the process of integration and many measures. More measures can certainly be taken, but I think that we have certainly taken a step forward and that, as we hope, we will also see results. More than 90% of newcomers who have attended integration courses are satisfied. I am pleased that the French Community has now also chosen to establish a course of devolution, albeit volontaire and only obligatory, but well, we are right where we are. We must continue to work on this, but this debate is in the hands of the Land Parliaments. Mrs De Coninck, you are asking for a more positive way of looking at migration. Well, I think I am telling a very balanced migration story in my policy paper, and I think we are putting the emphasis on it correctly. You say that I would only talk about asylum and you call it an asylum note. I've just checked that out. My note has 41 pages. The chapter Asylum takes up pages 8 to 17, i.e. 9 pages, and the 32 other pages cover all other themes of the migration domain. These include family reunification, Europe and the global context, local policy, labour market policy, labour migration, student migration and regularisation. So I believe that my note is not just about asylum, I think it is much wider and I will certainly pay attention to all those points. You say it is a pity that there is no mention of social dumping in my note. However, I am limited to my powers and I must be careful not to go into other people's areas of competence. As a former minister, you will know that caution is always needed in this area. Of course, this caution does not rule out the importance of social dumping. We discussed this in committee, and I have confirmed that we must continue to work on it. Your party colleague has done so under the previous government, and I am sure that my colleague Tommelein will do so now. He has already taken several initiatives in the short term and I can only hope for good results. Mrs Khattabi, you say you cannot debate with me. I can't debate if there's nothing. I'm glad you're here. I wanted to debate with you during the discussion on the policy statement, but when I replied you were not there. I wanted to debate with you during the discussion of the budget and the policy paper, but when I replied you were not there. I wanted to debate with you on your question in committee last week, but when I wanted to answer you were not there. With all due respect, Mrs Khattabi, but this is three times in a row that you have come to proclaim in great terms how wrong the government is doing, and if the government wants to respond, you are not there three times in a row.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u61	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I understand that you are raising it. I wouldn't want it to be misinterpreted. I was retained in the Justice Committee. I am an effective member of the Committee on Justice. I invite you to look at all the reports. I've been apologised. My absence does not detract from my assessment of your general asylum policy note. You'll still give me the freedom to think about what I want, Secretary of State, whether I'm here or not. In any case, on the question of my presence, I refer you to the way in which the work was organised. I sat on the Committee on the Interior and Justice. That is why I had an exchange with Mr Jambon on this matter. I would not want to be interpreted in any other way than because of my unavailability. For the rest, it is a disagreement, it is true; we assume it. When Mr Franken was in the opposition, he also expressed his views in a totally free manner. He'll give me the freedom to keep giving mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u62	Mrs Khattabi, you say you were present on the Justice Committee. With all due respect, but during the reply to the policy paper at around eight o'clock in the evening, there was no commission for the Justice Department. Mr De Vriendt was there at the time. We were the last committee in Parliament that day. So what you're saying is obviously wrong. You submitted a question to the committee. I don't know if there was another committee at the same time, but the truth has its rights. Whether I am present at your answer or not, you say I am entitled to my vision. Of course you can have your vision. I don't have a problem with that. I hope that everyone in Parliament has a vision. I hope so, especially for all those who are active in the migration domain. However, you should also have respect. I waited here for hours and listened to all kinds of speeches. I'll try to answer that, but you weren't there three times in a row. With all due respect, as a Member of Parliament, I have waited at least for the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u63	Mr President, I do not see very clearly what the Secretary of State is telling me. But I confirm that it is an element – it is probably the only one – on which we will agree, that it is indeed that I do not wish to debate with it. If I wasn't present at the time of his reply, it was because I was retained in committee, Mr. Chairman. We are a joint group and my colleague Wouter De Vriendt made the speech for my group. In addition, in the Minister's first statement, I did not ask the Secretary of State any questions. I made a statement on behalf of my group. Therefore, I did not expect any response from him.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u64	Mr President, that is what it was, since Mrs Khattabi did not ask a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u65	Mr President, I would first like to say to Mr Franken that, as a socialist, I am in favour of progressive policies. You're saying we're all going to be proud that the numbers are down. This has never been our philosophy. Belgium is engaged by international conventions. When there are conflicts in other countries, war situations, political problems, Belgium has a humanist tradition. Belgium is a land of welcome, a land tolerant to those who are in difficulty. This is the history of Belgium, for decades. But you have only one speech: that of the numbers. I would like to say to the person who spoke after me, Mr. Chairman, who says that we must stop the policies of the PS, that Mr. Di Rupo's government was composed of six parties: the PS with the sp.a, the CD&V with the cdH, the MR with the Open Vld. Three of the parties that formed this government are currently at your side. The person who was in charge of the case is one of your colleagues: she is from the Open Vld. How can you ever make speeches that are intellectual misinformation, amalgam? It was not a socialist policy, it was carried by a liberal minister in a coalition with several political parties. And then I see it: when you want to, you say, "It was a long time ago, when you closed a few places in some places." And when you want to say bad, you say it's because of the PS. Say, don't take people as idiots! No one's gonna get into your game. We know the reality. The reality is that it was Mrs De Block who was carrying this file. And today it's Mr. Franken. Mr Franken, your only speech on the issue of asylum and migration is the figures. Decreasing budget figures and making maximum returns to countries of origin and closing reception centres. You're obsessed with numbers. You have demonstrated this again today by presenting us with a number of figures. Madam, you have also intervened on collective regulation. Stop with this collective regularization! The Michel government with Mr Franken will never regularize. But what is the Belgian government that has made a collective regularization? Stop lying to public opinion. Always agitate the fear of the foreigner to make a claim to three or four people in our countries. It's shameful! Tell people the truth. Stop showing the stranger like someone who's scary. Stop! You show it in your note. You said your score was positive. Abuse, fraud, fear, anxiety. And I understand my colleague Mrs Khattabi. She's right. I'm as indignant as she is. When you link the jihadists to strangers, it's shameful! To say that a policy must be pursued from asylum and migration to justice and home affairs. Who are you? The Minister of Justice? The Minister of the Interior? How do you confuse roles? Your role is to protect the foreigner who arrives in the territory; not to show it as a dangerous person. As you said yourself, just 10% to 15% of people who engage in conflict elsewhere, such as Syria or Iraq, are foreign nationals. Ask your colleagues to take the initiative, but it's not up to you to put it in the memo. We are obviously outraged like all those who were in Poelaert's place. They weren't thousands. There were several hundred petitions, but the number of petitions is thousands. Here we ask the government to continue, in Belgian tradition, a humanist policy that always pays aid and attention to the one who comes from elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u66	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it is better to continue this debate where it is best held, particularly in committee. However, I would also like to congratulate Mr Van Den Bulck on his reappointment on behalf of my group. I would also like to thank the government for re-appointing Mr Van Den Bulck for a period of five years. He has done a good job in the past and I am sure that we will continue to be able to work well with him in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u67	We are now entering into the discussion of the public office chapter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u68	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is a rather special exercise to intervene on this part of the budget. This is quite special because when you ask the Minister of the Public Service in committee about his budget, you get little or no answer. When asked what the effect of linear cuts in services will be and how it will manage them, no answer. You're going to tell me that these questions really had to be difficult for a minister not to find an answer. I'll leave you judges with this example. What is the non-replacement rate you are considering? We're talking about a replacement for five departures. Do you confirm that? If not, is it more or less? How many people does this represent in 2015 and throughout the legislature? Of these, how many are statutory and contractual? Will there be redundancies? These questions seem difficult. However, we simply ask you to tell us what the impact will be on the use of your cuts in the payroll. But we didn't get an answer. Rather, semblances of response, and it's probably more serious! You tell us that you're sorry, that you haven't really made a budget, that you've set your line and that everyone is drawing their own plan. You tell us not to worry, that everything will be arranged with the budgetary control of February-March. We therefore understand that you have not taken any political options. Above all, we understand better what you mean by "private-inspired management": it is to set a goal of profitability without worrying about consequences for workers. You also said in committee that, anyway, it is up to the FPS directors to draw their plans with what they are given. Now you open the umbrella! You put the tool in the incapacity to carry out its missions and then you look for a scapegoat. To the point that we wonder if your only goal is not to break the public service tool so that we can say after the federal state doesn't work! I know what you think: socialists are bad losers, they are frustrated, they caricature, etc. We know the chorus! Let me read you a few excerpts from what the press is saying this morning. "These savings will have a significant impact on the institutions and threaten the very functioning of several services". "It is clear that the savings proposed will completely cripple certain services." "We wonder how the ambitions of the government agreement and the magnitude of the savings requested can be reconciled."
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u69	Are these the proposals for frustrated opposition? No! It is the analysis of the directors of the fourteen federal institutions, including the National Pensions Board and the ONSS, which is notably found in the newspaper L-Écho, which is well known for its leftist line. Mr Minister, at this stage, the only thing that can be said is this: your budget is less public services, it is an invoice that will be automatically carried back into the pockets of citizens, when they will have to pay, tomorrow, to the private sector for services to which they are entitled by the State. That, Minister, is what your budget really means! Above all, that is why we will not support it!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u70	Mr Minister, let it be clear once and for all, we stand as sp.a also for an efficient government. We are absolutely not opposed to savings when they are needed. I know you doubt that. However, we have done enough in the previous legislature. Moreover, as has already been mentioned yesterday, public debt among the socialists has indeed fallen. Between 1994 and 2007 it fell from 136 % to 80%. The rugged way in which the current government is making its savings on the government's apparatus is threatening to be too far-reaching. It jeopardises the proper functioning of services and the provision of services to citizens. More than a quarter less resources in five years, who gets better? Not the official, who has to do more with less resources, who has to take on the work of his retired colleagues and see his workload rise. Nor the citizen, who pays for this government's savings but does not receive better services in return. On the contrary, services are being reduced. Perhaps private companies will be satisfied with your savings. They may take over part of the public service obligation. But at the expense of what? Private companies will also cost money. The Court of Auditors says so in its report: the operation of a number of departments is being compromised. As Secretary of Defense, you know very well that this is true. You're facing the hatchet yourself. I'll come back to that later. I would just like to refer to your colleague from the Justice Department, Minister Geens, who said in the press on Friday that he considers the 4% savings imposed on staff impossible. He says he needs a different timing for those savings and also asked for additional funds from the interdepartmental commission. This part is allocated €67 million. If Minister Geens can save only 2%, he will need 27 million euros next year. If he can save only 1%, it will go up to 40 million euros. If one minister needs that, that pot will be empty very quickly. I am repeating myself, because Mr Fernandez Fernandez has already pointed this out. Today we hear in the press, as a blow to the flames, that the directors-general of the social security institutions have written a letter to the government calling the alarm bell. The savings are far too drastic and jeopardise the proper functioning of the services. I quote, like my colleague, a number of things: "In any case, the situation will lead to a permanent recruitment stop for the coming years and perhaps even to naked layoffs from 2015. I refer to the report on the policy letter of the Minister for the Budget, which literally states that the Minister confirms that there will be no naked dismissals in public office. I quote further: "The blind application of the measures will lead to the dismissal of some 115 staff.' I also have the following catchy quote: 'It is clear that the proposed savings will completely paralyse some services.' I will follow up with another catchy quote: 'It goes without saying that the implementation of a number of files from the coalition agreement is being compromised, including the fight against fraud and better recovery.' I will conclude with a final quote: "The linear savings imposed also make it difficult to carry out the basic tasks of the administrative agreement." Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think that is quite a punishment. Such quotes speak for themselves. I wonder what your response is to the various examples of criticism from the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Defence and the Justice Department. Who's telling the truth? Is the government prepared to seek solutions to safeguard the provision of services to all citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u71	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be short; it will reflect the content of the political guidance note you have presented to us on this subject and the remaining budgets for the Public Service. I would like to return today once again to the budget reduction, which has been discussed a great deal in committee. This budget reduction is reflected in a policy of non-replacement of staff who leave their posts. In addition to the magnitude of this non-replacement, it is easy to see that we will face an ageing of the remaining civil servants. In some services, it would be interesting to calculate the average age of agents; you will see that the situation could be dramatic because totally unbalanced. Indeed, it is not possible to do without staff at all posts. You do not integrate age into your human resources management. The government says it wants to increase the number of women in the public service, especially in leadership positions, that it wants to increase the cultural diversity of public servants, that it wants to increase the number of persons with disabilities involved. Very well, but how do you want to apply this will if the possibilities of engagement are reduced to this extent? So your goals are decoys! I can understand and accept the need to change management, dynamics, organization. But this can only be done if, and only if, the aim is to develop public service in order to best meet the needs of citizens and businesses. I agree to improve a functioning, if it is to further enhance the role of the State as a regulator, as a good manager. The services must have the capacity to exercise their control, governance and the management of the State, the latter being the guarantor of solidarity. This is the role of the public service in particular! On the other hand, I am opposed to the changes that aim to unblock public service for the benefit of private actors in order to arrive at a state that no longer fulfils its role as regulator. You are talking, Minister, about governance, about dynamic human resources management that will push everyone to the end of their skills, but the way you explained it in committee and the way you described it in your policy notes is out of date. The private companies that operate well today have integrated the fact that when we want to have efficient and mobilized staff, we build together the objectives to be achieved, we build together the way in which the work will be distributed, we build together the methods of work and evaluation. We cannot do this by imposing rules in abstracto and putting people in competition with each other, telling them that they will be paid for the task - how will these tasks be defined? - or by telling them that they will be paid according to efficiency, that they will be valued in their careers according to this effectiveness. So I really invite you to give up this governance which is completely outdated. I think that even by inspiring you from the modes of governance of private companies, you will discover that it is necessary to operate differently. I'm also horrified by the contractual situation. This is not new, you are not responsible for it, but see the proportion of contractors in the public service. What is also worrying at the moment is the degreasing and reduction of budgets. Contractors are fired overnight. In the asylum centres that are about to close, contract workers are given notice by 31 December of this year. In the past, there have already been closures, collective contract stoppages, but there was at least one accompanying plan, a reclassification plan with the workers. Today, nothing is completely ignored; the aim is to reduce the number of civil servants and perhaps more particularly in these sectors of activity. Computerization is presented as not a tool in the service of the public service, aimed at improving service to citizens or businesses, but rather as a kind of virtual god that can replace human relations. It is also known, however, that in order to have an effective service that is well suited to the needs, to a good organization of relations between citizens and public services, there must be a human relationship. In how to process a file, computer science is just a tool. I therefore agree with those who have already expressed the fear that behind these proposed policies there will eventually be a disconnection of the public service in general, and of the federal public service in particular. There, I would like to stress that the MR, the Liberal Francophone partner in this government, should be careful not to participate in a disconnection of the federal public service because when it is done, it will be too late, it will be considered inoperative and therefore useless. Behind an unnecessary federal civil service, there is a state that is therefore declared useless as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u72	Mr President, Minister, the government's attacks on public services are very serious. I will even talk about the destruction of public services by the government. This concerns all members of the government: you are not the only one concerned. But, as the minister in charge of the public service, you are obviously at the heart of this destructive policy. First of all, the massive downsizing of the workforce. We have a government policy of a multiplicity of gifts of all kinds – index jumps, reductions in social contributions and others – made to the private sector in the name of employment. On the other hand, the State itself in its role as employer destroys thousands of jobs. It's paradoxical. For FPS Finance alone, if we keep pace with a replacement for five departures, by the end of the legislature, we will have lost 7,000 jobs in FPS Finance alone. This is, moreover, a somewhat special case since this SPF may cost nothing in the budget. If you hire people to fight tax fraud effectively, it can bring back money rather than cost it. But, apparently, combating tax evasion is not the government's option. I could add prisons, police, state-owned companies, SNCB, bpost. These five sectors alone represent 24,500 jobs lost during the legislature. You're talking about social consultation with trade unions. To discuss what? To ask if we'd rather get shot or hanged? You create an unacceptable framework and then you submit this framework to social consultation without wanting to touch on the essence of this policy. There is also a reduction in operating budgets. It's very good to say that we're going to promote computer science, etc. All this is important, but if your operating budgets are down, I wonder how you're going to do it. There is also a series of significant expressions of a very ultraliberal option of the government: to apply the revenues of the private sector. This is not the first time a government in Belgium has used these words and this perspective. I have been hearing this for decades: to treat users of public services as clients, to say that public managers can also become entrepreneurs, to say that the administration must position itself in an extremely competitive labour market for highly qualified profiles, to promote flexible work. We are in line with the logic of the private sector applied as a universal recipe for public services. In my view, public services are better than the revenues used by profit hunters; public services serve the common interest, which is in line with another philosophy. Perhaps it is difficult to make this distinction in your ideology. In addition, a series of measures are being put in place in the name of performance, but will no doubt further develop subjectivity and nepotism; I am thinking of the fact that the degree level will no longer be the only element to obtain a position. So far, in the administration, in the public service, people without a university degree had the opportunity to pass exams, to climb the ranks of a career and to hold university positions despite the absence of a degree at the outset. Apparently, you prefer that people be appointed a little to the head of the client: this is what will happen if the choice is made only according to a judgment of competence, of quality, according to evaluations. Much will therefore depend on the evaluation of the supervisor and subjectivity will be at its peak. Same for salaries. You are not inventing anything new: the system is already introduced into the administration, but you want to prolong this process. If the remuneration is based on the assessment of agents, one wonders if this is not another way to reduce the cost by reducing wages, as in the private sector; Fortis did. Who will judge the officer to determine the amount of his or her remuneration? His superior. So, when you get along well with your supervisor or not, you'll get more or less pay. A fun passage from your note: you speak of "taking into account the fact that the administration will not escape the increase in the pension age and that a personnel policy should be carried out taking into account the age of civil servants". What does that mean: that you will hire nurses for older agents, to change their diapers and similar tasks? It would be interesting to explain. Finally, the status. I think we are still in this rather dubious and worrying logic. We are talking about "modernising the motivation for dismissal". It is clear that behind this expression is the idea of facilitating the dismissal of civil servants. Thus, the precarious employment of workers, which exists in the private world, in the business world, which weakens staff materially and, moreover, psychologically, would be extended to the public service. For me, it's a levelling from the bottom rather than the top. Similarly, considering the introduction of temporary work seems to me to be a very serious drift in terms of the precarisation of workers. We see the catastrophic effects of temporary work in the private sector. If you introduce it into the public sector, even if you claim that it will be in specific and very limited cases, we know that we always start with "limited" and then extend such measures. We are moving on a very wrong path, minister, but it is faithful to the ideological options of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u73	I have heard four similar statements, which show that the government does indeed have a different view of public office and is developing it. That's obvious. I'm replicating in two parts. Firstly, from my party and myself one sometimes tries to put up an image like we are driven by figures only. For a good understanding, I will first give a few figures, and then frame some things. For 2014, I would like to point out that not the current government, but a previous government, headed by your party, Mrs Fernandez, has decided to save 2% on staff appropriations, 15% on operating costs and 20% on investments. What does the present so-called heartless government do? It just puts 2 % on top of it. Indeed, we go to 4% instead of 2% last year. We go to 20 % at operating costs instead of 15 %, as you did, so we do 5 % on top of that. In the case of investments, we add 2%. The efforts we are asking for are therefore 2 %, 5 % and 2 %. Then I'd like to get to the heart of the matter. Let's not talk about numbers. Let's talk about people. You say we have no vision. You want to know from me, Mrs Fernandez, Mr Top, what the replacement ratio is; Mr Van Hees himself says what the replacement ratio would be. Well, I'm not giving a replacement ratio. They say I wouldn't have a vision. You can say that quietly. I'll argue that I'm based on trust. It is not a question of the directors of the FODs and the PODs drawing up their plans, but of our trust that they, as the director or manager of their organisation, can best determine how they can meet what the government expects from them in the budget. After all, who better than themselves can determine what tasks are and should continue to be core tasks? Who better than themselves can decide how to work together so that support functions are indeed available? It's called trust, Mrs Fernandez. It's called responsive. I understand you don't want that. You actually want officials of the right colour, regardless of their knowledge or skills, to be in the right place; they will say so. (Protests from Mrs Onkelinx) Mrs Onkelinx, I had the floor to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u74	Minister, we didn't say you didn't have a vision. Obviously, you have a vision of numbers and, to do so, you say to the departments: Trek uw plan! Draw your plan!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u75	It's not true, Mrs. Onkelinx!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u76	The departments, one after the other, say that they will find themselves in catastrophic situations that are not their responsibility. They are not the ones who have decided to cut budgets foolishly, it is politics. In committee, ministers came to say: "I don't know how I'm going to do it. I hope to have an extension or benefit from the interdepartmental provision. I hope that, thanks to a new plan that I will table, my colleagues will understand that this is impossible for my department." But as the only answer, you say, "Oh, that changes. We are responsible." I do not think it is responsible for reducing public services for the benefit of citizens. I think it's an irresponsible short-term vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u77	Mrs Onkelinx, thank you, because what you have just said is that the measures you have taken in previous years with your government, with your Prime Minister, were irresponsible. That's what it actually comes down to. It is good that you confirm my answer. Mr Top has asked a number of specific questions, to which I am trying to give concrete answers. You're asking who's right. If those 14 directors today say that they can't and that accidents will happen, then I ask them what they have done in previous years to get by with the budgets that the previous government had allocated them. It's not that much worse. You're asking who's right. If they think everything will stay the same and they'll be fine as long as they scream loud enough, then I think they're right. Well, then it won't work. However, if they say that they are responsible for their department, if they know how that works, what processes they have to carry out, and what deliverables they have with regard to the citizens and the services they have to provide, if they focus on that and instead of writing letters, start working on a plan, I say that I am right. But they may be right. If they think it's gonna stay the same, then they're right. Then it won't work. That's very clear. Finally, as regards a general view of civil service cases and of the function of public administration at federal level. If you say that I want to undress any device, I answer that I want to make sure that we can provide better services, with better officials who feel better in their skin. I am working on this, and that is why, Mrs Fernandez-Fernandez, I will never talk about a replacement rate, because that is ultimately the choice that is made within the department. Perhaps the government should learn more that there are budgets that need to be respected and respect them effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u78	Minister, I am not satisfied with your answer. You say the government has a different view of public office. All right, but I hope it will be a solid vision so that our state system and our officials can still work well in a good environment and serve all our citizens. However, I doubt your statement: I rely on trust. You clarified that earlier when it came to the letter from social security directors, in which people themselves say that this is unrealistic. You ask what you yourself have done in previous years with the previous savings. Minister, a chicken can be feathered until there is no more plume, but once it is bald, it is gone. Then we really must try to work in a different way. I have another question that you have not answered at all. Minister None has said that the savings of 4% are unrealistic. I wonder whether the other departments will also make such statements and will have to return to their intentions. We may come back to this place in a few months' time to debate this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u79	Minister, I am very pleased to see that you want public servants to feel better. I know them very well, for having been one for years. If you want them to feel better, do exactly the opposite of what your political note contains. Because I seriously doubt they'll appreciate what you're going to do. This night, we discussed the Department of Justice with Minister Geens, particularly about Ittre prison. I went there to "do the picket" and had the opportunity to chat with the delegates. These were successful, the Minister of Justice made concessions, returning to certain levels. I don't know if you know. The lesson to be learned is that conducting a strike at the end of the day, conducting social action, is probably the best way to get the government back.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u80	As I said, we are going to the last chapter on Foreign Affairs. In order to be able to debate a little systematically, I suggest that we concentrate first on Minister Reynders, then Minister De Croo, Minister De Crem if necessary and then Minister Vandeput. So I start with the questions and those addressed to Minister Reynders, like yours, Mr. Daerden. Mr. Miller, are you speaking to Mr. Reynders? We will indeed divide the debate according to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u81	Mr. Reynders can answer without a problem. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u82	You have the floor, Mr. Miller.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u83	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, from the electoral processes in Central Africa to the Presidency of the Council of Europe through Benelux or through our country's contribution to the peace process between Israelis and Palestinians, the subjects to be dealt with by our Foreign Minister, Mr Reynders, are both numerous and varied. These are files that require constant vigilance and clear diplomatic control. They also require reference to objectives and principles. They are not far from what can be called an ideal. This ideal that you are wearing on behalf of our country on the international stage is, Mr.Minister, woven of humanism and democracy, a founding element which, although some members of the opposition may have said, are indeed present in the Michel government agreement. Another criticism that has been heard is that of a less valuable commitment, a reduced European commitment. Minister, the texts - like your political guidance note - that reflect your political vision and your budget deny it: such a discount approach is not present in the government's project and I welcome it. Our country, in fact, has made the European choice and has no intention of leaving it at all. We support a gradual deepening of the Union and an ever closer union between the peoples of Europe, as stipulated in the preamble to the Treaty of Lisbon. We call for an internal market that allows our companies to develop in a liberal framework, Mr Van Hees, endowed with the democratic instruments necessary to preserve European specificities, particularly in environmental, cultural and social matters vis-à-vis American, Japanese, Chinese and Indian competitors, etc. Belgium is providing this Europe with everything it needs to do, including in terms of seriousness and budgetary discipline. Continuing to do so is our government's commitment. While 2015 will be the year of Mons, the European Capital of Culture, it will also be, for all Member States, the year of an ambitious investment plan, a year of concrete projects, which will be selected, activated by European bodies through an investment plan of the order of 300 billion euros. You have in committee, Minister, confirmed all the attention you will give to this investment plan on behalf of your government. This attention is not negligible, since I recently read in a newspaper that the Walloon government minister-president had lost a project, which had disappeared. Colleagues, on the international stage, there are, I said, very many hot issues. We live in a world in which too many people live in conditions unworthy of poverty, lack of security, spread of diseases, and a blatant lack of democracy. It is not possible, of course, for a small country like ours to solve everything. However, in many cases, Belgium's role, in particular through your action, deserves a great deal of emphasis. I am thinking of banning or non-proliferation of certain types of weapons, of the Kimberley Process for diamond trade or of respecting our international agreements. Among the hot spots, I will remember, as we discussed earlier, the Turkish phenomenon, but particularly the Russian-Ukrainian crisis, stressing the energy challenges that must be met by a much greater integration of the European energy market. A very or too quick word about the World Trade Organization. When this subject was discussed in committee, in particular with your colleague Mr De Croo, I reiterated several opposition Members that the WTO would be the driving force behind ultraliberal globalisation against the people of poor or developing countries. While this question is intellectually exciting, it is especially vital for these populations. We will often have an opportunity to discuss this in the coming months. I wanted to say at this forum today that it seems to me, on the contrary, as the Socialist Mr Pascal Lamy, who was the head of the WTO, has said, that developing countries have important advantages to gain from all the areas of negotiations under way. For example, experts from the African Development Bank welcomed the implementation of the Bali Agreement, in particular the Trade Facilitation component, which will boost intra-African trade by 10 to 16 per cent and which complements much of the infrastructure investment currently being made across the continent. I believe that the WTO can work in practice towards the development of the countries of the South if democratic controls are strengthened at all levels. That is where I believe, ladies and gentlemen, we can play a role. It is in particular because I find these lines in our government's project that I support this one. Finally, I will end with a more belgo-belgian point which is also within your competence, minister. As far as federal cultural institutions are concerned, it is obviously not pleasant to have budgetary restrictions, particularly in cultural matters. There is no need here to enshrine acts of faith in the grandeur of art or in the benefits of culture. No one in this assembly ignores these aspects. I shall therefore insist on four points. First of all, it is not an aggression against culture, the style: "When I hear the word 'culture', I take out my revolver". None of this! But, due to the budgetary needs of the state, partly due to the financial and banking crisis that no guru of the economy had seen come – not even the famous Mr Piketty, who was quoted yesterday at will by the various left-wing parties – the Michel government, in a democratic way, chose to guarantee social solidarity as well as the mechanisms for financing social security. In order to achieve this, a budgetary restriction standard has been imposed on all departments, including the subsidies allocated to federal cultural institutions. Second, I'll repeat myself. The Constituent entrusted the cultural dynamics of our country to the Communities. Concertation must be allowed time to deploy among the federated entities. Ms. Sleurs confirmed last night that she intended to start this dialogue quickly with regard to the Royal Museums. Thirdly, the government agreement allows for accommodation that you, Minister, have implemented. The savings of 5.8 million were reduced almost by half, as they were reduced to 2.7 million, of which 1.4 million were for the Théâtre de la Monnaie instead of the original 4 million, 65% less, 300,000 euros for the National Orchestra and 1 million for the Palais des Beaux-Arts. This is not at all negligible, given the much higher savings that were imposed on the Mint under previous governments. All the more so as other avenues of public funding and synergies are being examined and discussed. The director, Mr de Caluwe, made choices - as we learned from the press - at the time that he felt was most appropriate. All right! He decided to remove the dance and stop working with the Kaaitheater. It's his choice, too. Having said that, I will refer to two elements. First of all, the Sibyllin remark of a great connoisseur of Belgian artistic life, Guy Duplat, in La Libre Belgique, who concludes: "In a certain way, was this the only choice?" We discovered earlier a press release published by Anne Teresa De Keersmaeker, which suggests that, behind this choice, was not just the budgetary problem. So it's a decision I won't interfere with. Fourthly, in response in particular to those who predict cultural disinvestment in Brussels, I will reply that the Royal Conservatory of Music will be repaired. This is about a very long fight that finally ends. I would also like to stress the agreement in principle that I find quite historic for the artists of our country. I am referring to the text contained in the government agreement which provides that this government will finally provide an answer to the problem of the social status of artists. This is a step forward which is not negligible either. The measures will be taken in consultation with professional associations and not only with trade unions, as has been done previously. We have had a lot of debate on this, and the previous decisions posed some problems. There is no need to identify those responsible. Still, this is great news for artists and creators. In addition, Minister, you have announced that you are working on a possible extension of the tax shelter to the performing arts. It is a dossier that you have already demonstrated the importance through the financing of cinema. We also intend to open the philanthropy and crowdfunding project. The government, supported by the MR, may be – I am convinced – the one that will finally provide another funding for culture and creation. We will work on it "no day off", as we say in the entertainment world.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, without repeating the debate we have had in committee, I would now like to examine the elements presented in the Committee on Defence, but also in the Committee on External Relations. Three ministers are therefore involved. There are three general policy notes, three budget statements with very different styles and content, but unfortunately, with a common point, namely the total absence of transversality. I am not even talking about the brilliant presentation of our Secretary of State for Foreign Trade, the most expensive point of contact I know and who is not present to attend our debates. However, there is no comprehensive approach, either strategically or budgetaryly. The three Ds, namely defence, diplomacy and development, remain above all the three times 1 D. Our actions in Iraq and Afghanistan are, moreover, the sad examples, countries where we are going to extend our presence, even if we do not know too much why and much less for how long and with what money. But, no doubt, we will have information on this in five years' time. After this general comment, I would like to go back to more specific points and ask Mr Reynders and Mr. De Croo, if you agree, Mr. President. [[Sentiment]] Mr De Croo, I would like to pay tribute to your willingness to be transparent during our debates in committee. However, I should like to express my regret that this budgetary exercise and the general policy note which we have discussed have not made it clear beyond 2015. However, we know that development cooperation is based on programmes following multi-annual cycles. It is therefore very difficult to see where we are going in this area. The Court of Auditors has stressed this since it points out that in order to achieve the additional savings required, these multi-annual cycles inherent in this programming of governmental, non-governmental and multilateral cooperation will have to be taken into account. Moreover, it is only in 2017 that the reform of development policy will be carried out in the coming years and contributions or grants to our development cooperation partners will be committed. We have therefore asked many questions about these non-governmental cooperation actors, who unfortunately do not get answers in the long term. We hope, however, that this government will guarantee the appropriations that will enable these actors to fully implement the programmes and projects approved under the previous legislature. Of course, we appreciate your willingness to consult with these non-governmental cooperation actors in order to prepare for the post-2016 period, and we hope that this dialogue will take place. I come back to this consultation because, unfortunately, today, we still do not know exactly what it will be about. I hope that it will address, among other things, the reduction of the 18 to 15 partner countries, the criteria to be established and the exit strategies to be put in place. In addition, I hope that issues relating to multilateral cooperation will also be addressed, as the government agreement provides for the withdrawal of certain agencies. In this context, we are particularly concerned that our participation in the ILO will be called into question. I would therefore like an answer from you to this question and hope that you can reassure us. I also wonder about the funds that remain really available for cooperation with non-governmental actors. Indeed, there are many changes in budget items for NGOs, APEFE, VVOB, Africalia, decentralized administrations, trade union initiatives and migrants' associations. I would like to know whether these are purely technical changes or whether a real downward budgetary impact will be present for these non-governmental actors. For example, I wonder about the budget cut for the AFEF and VVOB. First of all, classifying these organizations in the same budget class as NGOs that have a specific but yet different role could force these two associations to behave in the same way as NGOs, but the partnerships that are established in the countries of intervention are here with governmental institutions and certainly require other modalities than those put into practice by NGOs that are rooted in civil society. Therefore, do you not fear that such assimilation could lead to confusion which, in the long run, could prove to be detrimental to the achievement of the results? Similarly, when referring to the uniqueness of Belgian development cooperation, I think that it should also be reflected in its budget. I therefore find it difficult to understand why the specific basic allocations for VVOB and APEFE are abolished in this budget, while the universities and the Institute of Tropical Medicine are maintained. I want to say that the law must apply in the same way to everyone without exception. If an exception is made for some actors, it would be good if actors in the same category would also benefit from it. Minister, on the basis of these elements, can you tell me what justifies this amendment? Would it not be appropriate to return to the previous situation? In the same way, I wonder about the €600,000 that are planned for contextual analyses. Is this an additional amount or will it be an additional expense to the previously available budget? I did not understand very well the answer you gave us in committee on this point. Now, a few more specific questions that you have not answered in committee. Why is the question of combating poverty not addressed? Why is the European Year of Development planned for 2015 not subject to a definition or, in any case, a specific interest in the general policy note that you have presented to us? There is also no budget for this purpose. Why is the budget for debt cancellation reduced, as you indicate that you want to focus public aid on the poorest countries? I see it as a form of contradiction. I have another question about conflict prevention and preventive diplomacy. What will be the collaboration with Foreign Affairs and with what funding? As regards your willingness, which I welcome, to empower consumers, how do you intend to do so without creating real barriers at European level to the entry of our market for products that do not comply with social and environmental standards? It is through this method, I think, that we could offer real alternatives that are accessible to the consumer and that we could facilitate this accountability. How can we understand, in this context, that the majority rejected the recommendations on social and environmental standards that we presented in committee? Finally, a more specific question about post-2014 in Afghanistan. We still do not know what vision has emerged for the $15 million of the Chicago Fund. We have asked the various ministers yourself, Mr Reynders and Mr Vandeput, but we have not received any answers to the question of who will pay those 15 million. We are still unable to understand why this amount is not clearly identified in the budget or why no minister clearly wants to answer our question. I now turn to the questions I wanted to ask Mr Reynders. Firstly, as far as European diplomacy is concerned, there are some contradictions between you and Mr Vandeput. You stress your willingness to strengthen the European External Action Service and the common security and defence policy, but at the same time, Mr Vandeput encourages, above all, our participation in NATO operations. We therefore feel that Atlanticism takes precedence over the European dream, which is completely disenchanted. In my view, this is a great weakness in relation to the previous government agreement, while our country must be an engine of European construction to change the course of this Europe of austerity. This role is clearly undermined, except on business issues (whether through TTIP or other such agreements) or the security aspects of Europe that you call fortress Europe, with fearful speeches about immigration, radicalism, terrorism. There is little voluntarism on projects such as the European recovery, the tax on financial transactions or on project bonds or eurobonds. I would also like to speak again on the issue of the Transatlantic Treaty. I wanted to reiterate that for the PS, at present and under the conditions of this Treaty, we will oppose this ratification. We have set very clear guidelines in this area, whether in terms of compliance with social and environmental standards, the establishment of binding mechanisms for monitoring and sanctioning, transparency of negotiations, exclusion of public services and the general interest or opposition to any dispute settlement clause in this area. It goes without saying that the question of the cultural exception is also important to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u85	Mrs Grovonius, you say that you will oppose any dispute resolution through the ISDS standard. I would nevertheless like to point out that the party to which you belong and to which the former Prime Minister belonged has defended a mandate with the European Commission which contained the ISDS clause. So we are going to oppose this ISDS standard like you, but it was time to oppose it as soon as the Belgian government, under the Di Rupo team, granted the mandate to the Commission in June 2013.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u86	Mr Hellings, on this issue, my party has always been very clear. In fact, we tabled a resolution today, which we will not fail to discuss. As far as we are concerned, we have also requested the meeting of a working group on this point. I have no problem with this question. I think my party's position is sufficiently clear. I will conclude with a question that concerns a region that is particularly close to my heart: the region of the Middle East. The first element I would like to highlight is my question about Lebanon's withdrawal. You have told us about some of the discussions you have had with the Lebanese authorities. A few days ago, we, together with Mrs Khattabi, met with the Ambassador of Lebanon; he did not speak the same way as you spoke in committee. He is really concerned about the consequences of our withdrawal to his country. I would therefore like to hear your explanation for this withdrawal. I invite you to remain very attentive to the consequences for this region, which is currently very sensitive. The second point I wish to address with you is the question of the recognition of the State of Palestine. We would like to see that immediate recognition. Indeed, today many countries have already initiated this dynamic, including Sweden. The European Parliament adopted a resolution to this effect on 17 December. In the meantime, in Belgium, the majority is terrifying and rejecting the recommendations tabled by the PS. Of course, then, we discover in the press thundering statements, as they did two weeks ago, according to which Belgium would finally recognize Palestine. Today we discovered the text of the resolution on our benches. Unfortunately, our fears are confirmed: this text certainly requires the recognition of the State of Palestine, but with a series of conditions that make me say that this majority does not want to make concrete progress on this issue. These conditions are so impractical that it is obvious that we will never move forward in this direction. You want to wait for the right time? Minister, I believe that the right time has come today after decades of conflict in the region. In view of a completely engulfed peace process, the dramatic events that took place this summer in Gaza, the current political instability, I think we can no longer wait. Following the adoption by the European Parliament of this resolution on the recognition of the Palestinian State, what could still justify the Belgian government's delaying on this issue? It is time for you to assume your responsibilities, as the previous government had done by recognizing Palestine as a non-member and observer State in the United Nations. It is of course not a question of calling into question the security or existence of Israel by this recognition. It is simply a question of carrying out a strong diplomatic act, while continuing to condemn any use of force by all parties. Several questions arise in this debate. First, why does the government not seem to want to recognize the existence of the Palestinian State? Why don't you learn from the resolutions that have been adopted by the assemblies of Member States and federated entities? Finally, our group is the author of a clear motion for a resolution which has already been taken into account by this House. It makes only one request: to formally recognize the State of Palestine next to the State of Israel. Why does the government not stand in the way of this text without conditions? Why does the majority not support it if it is so sure of the merits of such recognition? I will conclude with a small question of topicality. We have read that President Obama has adopted an innovative position on Cuba and that a form of normalization of relations with Cuba is on the agenda. I would like to know what position Belgium will adopt in this respect, particularly with regard to our possible official representations in this country. Thank you for your flexibility, attention and answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u87	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, in committee we have already discussed in detail your policy letter, the policy paper and the relevant parts of the budget. I have already congratulated you on the busy and ambitious international agenda you have set. I have also asked a number of questions about the definition of your priorities. I was surprised at the absence of the focus on Asia in your policy plans, a region which is increasing not only economically but also geopolitically so rapidly and so strongly that, in addition to the traditional transatlantic region, it deserves to be at the heart of your policy. I would also like to encourage you today in your role to make Belgium a pioneer. We are faced with an ever more complex world. We have long since been unable to talk about a bipolar world, a unipolar world or a multipolar world. Today's world is rather multiregional and is increasingly built up from changing and changing relationships. Basically, what relationship do we want to enter into in the 21st century with the rest of the world? The era of the classic North-South approach is over. Boutades like the world has become a village, will not help us any further, nor can fear of globalisation help us. Minister, the world is changing rapidly, and it is incredibly important that we are with you as a country, that we find our place and that we secure that place. How, for example, are we going to establish relations with growing countries, which are still suffering in part from past problems such as poverty, illiteracy, unstable or weak political authorities, and at the same time are already fully confronted with all the new challenges of rapid industrialisation and economic boom? What attitude will you adopt as a minister and in the event of enlargement in our country? In other words, these and many other challenges lie before you. I particularly hope that you will address your policy ambitiously and from a 21st century framework. In the meantime, Minister, we have heard many relevant elements from several speakers. However, I would like to mention a few elements which are a priority for the CD&V Group. Firstly, as far as Europe is concerned, you undoubtedly agree with me that our country must continue to work for a more powerful European Union. An important aspect of this, which you have already stressed, is a stronger Belgian presence within the European External Action Service. Another path is close cooperation between NATO and the European Union through greater cohesion between the two, complementing NATO and the European Union. We are also in favour of making the European Union's common foreign and security policy more effective. A second point I would like to emphasise is the emphasis on the protection of human rights, which is very important for our group. We also call for special attention to be paid to the protection of religious minorities. At present, for example, there is a situation in the Middle East and North Africa. The coalition agreement referred to this, but your policy letter and your policy paper included this less prominently. In my third point, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that your policy letter states that a national plan on business and human rights will be drawn up. Mr Minister, our group would like to see the relevant department of economics closely involved in the drafting of such a document. It is also very important for us that such a plan should pay attention to decent work. After all, we are working for a safe and decent working environment, decent wages, transparent trade union work and so on. Minister, I would also like to talk more specifically about the ambitions and the leading role that Belgium can play in the international arena. We have an important task here, among other things, in the context of the Great Lakes region in Central Africa. This is a region with which our country has historical links and in which we have also built up a great deal of experience and expertise. The Great Lakes region will be marked by a series of presidential elections in the coming years. This will be done in Burundi in 2015, in the Democratic Republic of Congo in 2016 and in Rwanda in 2017. The Constitution of those States provides that a third presidential mandate is not possible. However, it seems that the regimes currently in power will nevertheless try to introduce constitutional changes to enable a third mandate to be given to the respective Presidents. Minister, on the basis of your policy letter and policy paper, I sometimes get the impression that you are not very ambitious on that point. You focus mainly on the Democratic Republic of Congo. It is striking, for example, that you remain silent about the situation in Burundi. That is why I have tabled a resolution on this matter. I sincerely hope that you will include a number of provisions once they have been adopted. In addition, I hope that you will also work on the announcement of the Africa note. For our group, it is very important that this should be a political note in which there is also a policy vision regarding our country's interaction with this region. There are still places where intervention from our country can be crucial. This brings me to my fifth point. After the events in Gaza, a status quo ante is no longer a solution. The restoration of the peace process is necessary to enable the creation of a Palestinian state. Let us stress the importance of this and also agree with the words of the High Representative, Federica Mogherini, who also wants to see an independent Palestinian state realized. It is important that a Palestinian state can live in peace alongside the State of Israel and that the security of both peoples is assured. Minister, we are counting on you to play an influential role in this. Closer to home you also have work to do. The coalition agreement pays considerable attention to the revision of the cooperation agreements between the federal level and the state governments. More importantly, this revision is reflected as a priority in the coalition agreement. I hope to hear from you in the near future that in the wake of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Foreign Policy there is a new dynamic which will increase the effectiveness and coherence of the actions of all our Belgian entities. My group would also like to know how you will improve and make more effective the coordination mechanisms managed by Foreign Affairs. In order to strengthen the quality of our foreign policy, we also support further efforts to improve the functioning of the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, and its cooperation with the other federal and sub-state departments concerned. This will probably require an important reform, Minister. Good cooperation requires not only a good attitude and openness, but also a shared and coherent vision of our foreign policy. This will be reflected, inter alia, in the review of the diplomatic and consular post network at federal level. We do not see this as merely a financial exercise. This network must be constantly and smoothly adapted to the new developments and challenges in the world, taking into account Belgian, federal and federated interests. The policy paper also indicates that the FPS heritage will be further consolidated abroad. These are not insignificant policy options, even in the longer term. We certainly encourage you to carry out this redrafting in a transparent manner, in consultation with the government and Parliament. A final point that is important to our group is the monitoring of the social and environmental clauses in the bilateral and multilateral trade and investment agreements. We believe that social rights should be strengthened and enforced through appropriate instruments. The guidelines are the Geneva Conventions and the International Labour Organisation. After all, we must ensure that investment agreements work towards an equal level playing field so that everyone is subject to the same standards. These standards should be as high as possible through the multilateral framework. Finally, Minister, allow me to personally encourage you to live up to Belgium's ambitions as a leader in international political and diplomatic processes. Belgium itself is a master in finding reasonable and human solutions and compromises and in dealing with many sectional interests and interest groups. We have the skills. We must give them to other situations in the world in this globalised world and use them in our role in the world we want and can play. Good luck, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u88	Thank you, Mrs Claerhout. We congratulate you on your maiden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u89	Mr President, I shall speak on behalf of my bank. The Minister, like every department, must also save 20% of foreign affairs. I had heard that there is a plan to close a number of diplomatic posts. The post in the city of Lille is mentioned. I hear a decision has been made by you, which has already been communicated through the embassy to the French Government. Can you confirm that that decision was taken with regard to the city of Lille?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u90	Mr President, Ministers, I would like to put a question to Minister Reynders on an issue that has not yet been discussed in committee during the debates on the policy papers and the budget. Yesterday in the Chamber we discussed the budget in general, the savings made by this government and the unfair nature of it in our view. Minister, I would like to mention a saving within your department, which we believe is very striking, namely the post of conflict prevention and preventive diplomacy. We see that this year EUR 17 million has been allocated. Next year, in 2015, the amount available for conflict prevention and preventive diplomacy drops to EUR 5 million. That's two-thirds savings. In some departments, 10% to 20% is saved on operating costs, but in those posts the savings are two thirds. That has not yet been discussed in committee. Like all of us, you are talking about democracy, about human rights, about preventing conflicts worldwide. In this context, I believe that conflict prevention and preventive diplomacy are very valuable projects. It is about institution building and state building, about promoting, for example, children's rights in Mali, about mine mining in Gaza, about Cambodia, you name it. The budgets are also devoted to strengthening women's rights movements in Egypt, strengthening the rule of law in Congo and so on. In other words, that money is being spent very valuablely. Minister, how can you justify a saving of EUR 12 million in these posts? What does this saving mean in concrete terms? I note that this government is very keen to engage in hard military operations, but in such cases it is already too late. Conflict prevention can just prevent violent outbursts and rising tensions. Conflict prevention is also much cheaper. You will save 12 million euros on this item in 2015. However, sending troops to Iraq for six months costs more than double. So every euro we invest in conflict prevention and preventive diplomacy, we deserve back twice as much. This saving is completely incomprehensible to us, Minister. I would therefore like to ask you to motivate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, Deputy Prime Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs, I have some thoughts and questions on this last subject. As you know, the PS has always stressed the importance of a more integrated European Union, which works on two feet, the economic foot and the social foot. In this sense, budgetary rigour is an important element, but it must not be sufficient for itself. Unfortunately, too often we have to note that we are faced with European institutions that care about budgetary rigour but deny their social responsibilities. However, the recovery requires investments with growth in the broad sense, which is at the origin of the Juncker Plan. With this in mind, the PS proposes to neutralise certain investments in European budgetary standards. Last week, we had the opportunity to have some hearings in the Committee of Opinions, in particular from the Commission. These hearings confirm a certain flexibility for investments, especially public-private investments that could be admitted. But this seems less obvious for public investment. This variable geometry normativity and the importance of the social dimension of European integration bring me to a few questions. Minister, do you think that there will be a move by the new Juncker Commission to take greater account of the social impact of their recommendations? For example, is the impact of index jump on our debt and on purchasing power taken into account or could it be taken into account in European assessments? Moreover, how can the Commission, which proudly – perhaps a little less today than yesterday – boasts its 2020 strategy, claim that such objectives, particularly social ones, remain achievable in the face of the sometimes unreasonable straitjacket imposed? Could we move towards neutralizing public investment for recovery? How does the government position itself to promote all Belgian projects under the Juncker Plan? The federal government supports both public-private, private and public projects. Finally, in relation to the current situation, in the context of the adoption by the European Parliament of the budget of the European Union for 2015, can you clarify these implications in terms of contribution for our country? Indeed, I understand that the Member States will be more involved. Is this reflected in Budget 2014 or 2015? Can you tell us what the impact is?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u92	If there are no more speeches for Minister Reynders, I suggest that Minister Reynders respond now. Then we can treat it for Minister De Croo.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u93	Mr President, I will try to respond to the various speeches and questions. Mr Miller, I mentioned this in response to a question about the specific situations that you have mentioned. Whether in economic matters or in the defence of human rights, we are equally strong in both cases. You heard it for Turkey earlier, but it is clear that my recent travels to Russia and Ukraine were in the same direction. We must see how to develop relations to support reforms in Ukraine and, in both countries, within the framework of our role in the Council of Europe, we must insist on the human rights situation. You are right to say that that is what we must do in other areas too. I am thinking of the WTO; it is obvious that this is an important role for the countries of the South and we must pay close attention to our ability to ensure that the WTO's direction can help them in their development. I will return to the more European aspects earlier, since Mr Daerden has just mentioned them in more detail. In the cultural field, as I said during the debate in committee, it is not my intention to interfere with the artistic choices that are made within the institutions. It's still happy for culture! This means that when a director of an opera house chooses, when we do not ask him to make any effort on the staff, to dispense with some of the activities – I am thinking of dance – it is a personal choice that he proposes to his institution. However, we will verify that all of this will meet the requirements that we will define in a specification when negotiating a management contract with the institution. Mrs Grovonius, as regards transversality, for Iraq, for Syria or for many other conflict areas around the world, we are making diplomatic efforts. Diplomacy is particularly present. I am also very pleased that the contacts we have made in Ukraine and Russia have resulted in a ceasefire. We are pursuing the same approach in Iraq and Syria. We are trying to play a diplomatic role to ensure, for example, that what the UN Special Envoy, Staffan de Mistura, is trying to set up in Aleppo can succeed. I have participated in many meetings on the subject in recent weeks. My colleague in charge of cooperation will be able to tell you, and that is also true on the humanitarian level. We have identified humanitarian resources through cooperation in these different regions. We'll continue. Transversality is that! I see no difference between the Minister of Defence and myself with regard to our vision of the European role. We do want to strengthen European defence integration, but it is one of the pillars of NATO. It is within NATO that this is also being done. Fortunately, there is no contradiction between the desire to strengthen Defence and European cooperation and the willingness to do so within NATO. As far as transatlantic relations are concerned, the negotiating mandate – we have also obtained the publication of the transatlantic agreements in consultation with our American colleagues – provides for the cultural exception. We await a review of all the comments made on the ISDS clauses. There were more than 150,000 comments to provide an indication of what the Commission would like to do in this debate. I still find that you quickly go into trouble announcing that you will not ratify a text that does not exist. At least wait until the negotiations have been concluded and a text is proposed before making a final decision. Of course, by hypothesis, you can refuse any ratification of a text with the United States. This surprises me a little because we are quick to ratify texts with China and, as a matter of principle, we could not do it with our American friends. I'm a little surprised at the approach. At least let the negotiations succeed. We will, of course, be attentive to all the comments made on this subject. As far as regional situations are concerned, there is no withdrawal in the Middle East. I don't know what the Ambassador of Lebanon told you. We were not lucky enough to have such a long conversation with him, but we met at length with the Prime Minister of Lebanon and the Minister of Foreign Affairs whom I also heard in a face-to-face. They thanked us for all the operations in Lebanon and we will continue to work with them. Nevertheless, after eight years, a choice was made not to continue the same military operation. There are other things that can be done in the country. I can tell you that the relations between the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Belgian authorities have been very warm. For Palestine, I assume that a debate will take place in this House since motions for resolutions are on the table. I will have the opportunity to confirm to you the commitments we wish to make with European colleagues to relaunch a process in the Middle East. It is in this context that I place the use of the instrument as the possible recognition of a Palestinian State. I will be happy to participate, if you wish, in the debate on the resolutions tabled by the various groups. Finally, with regard to Cuba, we did not wait for the announced operations between the United States and Cuba to intervene. Belgian diplomacy has been very active in this field for years. There were visits, even on the spot. Today, I welcome the opening announced by Washington and Cuba in their relations. I simply hope that, as a step in the process, the planned opening can lead to political and democratic reforms, human rights reforms in Cuba, which should lead to ever-increasing openings, until the embargo is lifted. We will follow this situation very concretely. As I said in committee, we will insist on respect for human rights throughout the world, but economic development is also important. This is important in Asia, in the Great Lakes region, in the Middle East, which is important everywhere. As far as the Great Lakes are concerned, for example, it is my ambition to make a number of visits from January with my colleague in Development Cooperation. It is very important to do so together. We will start early January in Rwanda and Burundi and will visit Congo in February. We would like to explain all the elements of our policy in the context of our 3D approach. It is important to pay attention to security, to possible development projects and to political stabilisation. This also applies to all the countries we will visit. I try to do so in close cooperation with Development Cooperation. I now answer two specific questions. As far as our postal network is concerned abroad, we are first trying to restructure in Europe. It makes no sense for us to be present all over Europe. Perhaps we can work with the Benelux countries, the Regions and the Communities there. With regard to the cooperation agreement, we will try to reach an agreement between the Regions, the Communities and the federated entity. I have sent a proposal to all entities, based on the current state of affairs. I am always prepared to do more, but let us first try to reach an agreement on the basis of our initial proposals. Mr Van Quickenborne, as far as the postal network is concerned, I can confirm that Lille is on the list of possible posts to be closed. I will try to stay in touch with France and with the other partners involved, such as the Regions and the Benelux countries, to see how we can stay there. Perhaps there will be no more Consulate General as a delegation from the federal level, but Lille is 30 minutes from Paris and 30 minutes from Brussels per Thalys. So it is difficult for us to say that this post should remain. We are looking for opportunities other than one that exists to maintain a Consulate General there, as in other places. Mr De Vriendt, we have debated conflict prevention in committee. I refer to pages 20 and 21 of the report. I said that EUR 5 million was entered in the budget for this purpose. Last year, only 50% of the funds could be spent. We are trying to improve cooperation with development cooperation and to continue a number of concrete projects in very different areas of conflict prevention. Mr Daerden, to return to the European debate – I will not use the argument too often – we will certainly have a debate on the analysis of our budgets, the impact of the index jump on debt, the impact of a number of measures taken in Belgium, with Mr Moscovici. I assume that having been in charge of the Economy and Finance in Mr Hollande's government, he will be very attentive to some of your concerns. We'll try to get the message out. To return more to the substance than to the relations between people, as far as the 2015 budget is concerned, normally, in the agreements reached at European level – this is mainly a British demand – there should be no worsening of the situation concerning us. We have been given assurances about this, but I prefer to communicate the situation very precisely. I wasn't involved in the process. This has been done more within the budgetary framework itself at the European Council. I would like to say that the economic and social aspects go hand in hand. I am pleased that we now have a Commissioner in charge of Employment and Social Affairs. This will give the Commission much clearer guidance in these matters. We are also monitoring this through a whole series of measures. To take just one example, social and environmental clauses are an integral part of all trade negotiations, including with our American colleagues. In the European project, in order to take only one example that is of interest to you, I remain convinced that the fight against social dumping must be at the forefront of concerns. I hope that the summits will be guided in this direction, as this is indispensable in our approach. On the proposed investment plan – discussions are still under way – the reasoning is first of all that even with 30 billion, there is a ratio of 1 to 15 in the possible lifting of investments financed by the European Investment Bank. This is the reasoning followed by the President of the Commission – we will see in what exact form – but by asking the European budget and the European Investment Bank to intervene, then the states and private investment. We'll see if we can actually organize full funding. Personally, I will look after two aspects. First of all, flexibility in this area, so that a country with a high debt burden is not hampered in its investment capacity. Secondly, we will ensure that all projects returned by the Regions and by the Federal Government can be defended at European level. We are at the beginning of the process. I can tell you at any rate that at the General Affairs Council I have already had the opportunity to intervene in this direction on flexibility with moderate success. As I said to the government, I received the full support of our Permanent Representative, and he has my full support when he intervenes on the same subject. But we will try to convince a number of states to go in the same direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u94	Minister, with regard to the two-thirds savings in the areas of conflict prevention and preventive diplomacy, you say that we have never been able to spend this money in full in the past. So let us save two thirds. Of course, that's not an explanation. There are plenty of potential conflicts in the world. So there's a problem. Either you don't want to find them, or you don't want to find them. However, you have plenty of options. You can use conflict prevention resources directly or you can work through NGOs. There are plenty of potential fireplaces in the world. I have just listed a number where we have done valuable work in the past. There are enough potential fireplaces to spend a budget of EUR 17 million. Your answer is therefore not sufficient at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u95	Development cooperation
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u96	If there are no other replies, we will now come to the speeches addressed to Minister De Croo.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u97	Minister, I have already said in committee that many elements in your vision will satisfy us for the next five years. Despite the fact that we share the same values in development cooperation, the way to achieve these objectives may be quite different. We have had a good discussion on this, but I would like to raise a number of points which give rise to some concern. Development cooperation is, of course, subject to new insights and challenges, societal evolutions and international trends. We all agree that we must respond to this. However, a policy can only be credible to all partners in development cooperation if some sustainability can be guaranteed. In international theories, this is referred to as predictability which is also important for partner countries. In 2013, the then government developed a new legal framework. I dare say that this framework has the necessary flexibility to respond to this constant evolution. In committee, you assured us that the intention is not to make tabula rasa, but rather to make targeted adjustments. I was pleased to hear this answer. It is a pity, however, that you have not yet defined a course of action on how and when you want to achieve it. To my questions and those of my fellow Members, you have always answered that you will do so in consultation with all the actors. I hope you understand, and we feel this a little bit, that there is some uncertainty in the development sector. Not only do they remain uncertain about the timetable for adapting the legislative framework, but also about the guarantee and about their autonomy and complementarity. I am, of course, talking about both public actors and non-governmental actors. There's a lot of uncertainty. However, the government agreement clearly recognises their autonomy, just as it stipulates that, in consultation with the sector, the 2009 agreement will evaluate and, if necessary, revise the so-called Michael Pact, with the Belgian NGOs, within the renewed legal framework of 2014. Of course, my group is not opposed to adjustments or adjustments, provided they are necessary for better and efficient operation and consultation. Mr. Secretary, cooking costs money. You know that, too. Policies also require resources, and certainly development cooperation needs them. However, times of economic crisis and budgetary restructuring require every minister to save. In recent years, much has been saved in the field of development cooperation, which is contrary to our international commitments. I do not think that the crisis should end up on the back of the poorest. A major change would have been if you could break that decline, which has already been achieved in the past, by using more resources, in accordance with our commitments, our own legislation and the coalition agreement. As you know, this means 0.7%. The United Kingdom proves that there is another way. In 2013, the country increased its development aid to 0,72% of GNI. I hope that we will be able to make a major change in the budget in the coming years, because today, although the figures are not yet known, we are below 0.45%, which is lower than ever. Minister, I am in favour of focusing our aid on the lowest income countries, in Central and West Africa, but also in other countries. You will have to take this into account when reviewing and reducing the number of partner countries. In committee, you did not have your maps showing which countries will die, but it is quite clear that the non-African countries, and the middle income countries in particular, are the first to be endorsed. A further withdrawal from Asia and Latin America seems unwise to me, just because, according to UNDP, 80% of the poorest still live in middle income countries. A Dutch journalist puts it as follows: "New is that most poor people live within the borders of a country where the upper class drives around in Land Cruisers of $60,000 and where the middle class has a smartphone." She can't put it any more than that. Most poor live in India, China, Bangladesh and Brazil. That is why, in consultation with Parliament and the various actors, I would like to see which partner countries are best placed to provide assistance and seek effective, sustainable and inclusive economic growth. This also means that we must remain open to the middle income countries. I am counting on you to engage in the political debate in Parliament too and not simply to change the way in which the 15 partner countries are implemented. You must not avoid the discussion on this issue. You are right to focus on economic growth and self-reliance. For my group, economic entrepreneurship is an important driver for development, of course, as long as it benefits the poorest. In recent years, we have faced the downside of economic growth and globalisation. A growing per capita gross domestic product does not automatically mean a better life for everyone. I do not think we can illustrate it better than with the collapse of the textile factory in Bangladesh and what it has brought about, including in public opinion and in a country where there is a great gap between rich and poor. Mr Minister, we must encourage enterprise in the South, provided that companies do so in a socially responsible manner. It would therefore be good to work on an ethical code for our companies working in development cooperation during the legislature. Corruption and abuse of the weak position of developing countries must be effectively punished. Our country, of course, is also committed to emergency aid. You have increased the budgets for this in the 2015 budget. For example, Belgium was immediately prepared to do so in a good way to help with the fight against Ebola. On 5 December, the government approved the deployment of a mobile laboratory for one month in Guinea. What happens after that? What are the government's plans when that month is over? I'm finishing up, Minister. The fight against inequality must guide your policy over the next five years. I deliberately speak of inequality, as you already know. Eliminating extreme poverty and hunger has to do with more than just bnp per capita. The fight against inequality and unequal distribution is also crucial. These are mainly problems of middle-income countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, we congratulate Mrs Van Hoof on her maiden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u99	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, although I have said it several times in committee during the discussion of the policy statement and the policy paper, I repeat here that I am still hungry because it is still a great question of what concrete steps you will take next year. Mr Minister, realizing that innovation is one thing, but translating it into practice, into the field, is something completely different. So I am still looking forward to seeing how you will translate the reforms announced into practice. My general criticism is, as I said earlier, that the policy paper reads as a catalogue of 3 Suisses, in the sense that all fine words and principles are contained in it and that all organisations can find their own theme or core business in the text, but that remains so. The policy paper is lacking in concrete form, Minister. From 2017 onwards, you want to focus development cooperation policy more geographically and thematically, but you do not have more clarity. You want your choice to depend on consultation with stakeholders. On the one hand, I can understand that, but then I hope, on the other hand, that you will take this consultation seriously and not engage in false consultations when you have actually already taken a decision. After all, civil society is awaiting a decision on which countries will lose weight. Mr Van Hoof from CD&V also raised this problem. It's time for you to clarify. In any case, you are very clear about the fact that you want to pursue a neoliberal policy. Not a single word is as common in the text as the word "private sector," coupled with economic growth. I have nothing against that in itself. On the contrary, economic growth is and remains crucial. However, I find it problematic that you do not link this to the fight against inequality. However, both are closely linked. In order to achieve real, sustainable growth, we must not only support the private sector, but also combat inequality, and vice versa. Great economic growth is not a guarantee of greater equality. Mr Van Hoof has already mentioned a number of countries where this is clearly visible in practice. In your note, you focus mainly on economic growth. Minister, how will you deal with inequality through Belgian Development Cooperation? I would like to hear from you how you will achieve this in practice. How will you ensure that the fruits of economic growth reach the right people? That is the crucial question for our party. How will economic growth in those countries, where inequality and economic growth are high, but where there is also a great deal of poverty, be used to combat inequality? Specifically on the budget, the following. I refer first to the Court of Auditors' remark. In 2014, the budget for development cooperation amounted to EUR 1,356 billion. The available budget in 2015 is 1.223 billion or 9.8 % decrease. You are announcing additional savings of up to 270.3 million euros in liquidation appropriations in the coming years in 2019. Nevertheless, you confirmed the 0.7 % standard. According to the Court of Auditors, however, in view of the gradual reduction of the budget allocated to the DGD, the prospects for increasing official development assistance are in any event compromised, unless other public authorities increase their contribution. How will you deal with that problem? For the actors of non-governmental cooperation, there is little change in 2015 and 2016. However, as of 2017, they will face savings and a renewed development cooperation policy. These actors currently have a great deal of uncertainty about savings and their impact and require greater clarity on this matter as soon as possible. They must start by drawing up a multiannual budget, but this is still a serious question for them. I therefore ask you to clarify them as soon as possible. I would also like to make a plea, at least to ensure the autonomy of the non-governmental actors. With your calls for proposals, I fear that autonomy will be compromised. During the discussion of the policy paper, Minister, you announced that consultations with non-governmental actors would start on 26 November 2014. It should have taken place by now. Can you give more information about its outcome? When will the next consultation take place? Finally, I would like to talk about education. I do not find any mention of education in your policy paper, which is a pity. The challenges remain enormous. In terms of access to primary education, considerable progress has been made over the last ten years. Today, however, 58 million children worldwide still do not attend primary school. Fifty percent of them live in countries and territories affected by war and conflict. As a result, there are still huge challenges in the field of education, especially in our partner countries. However, I do not find anywhere in your budget the budget that you want to invest in primary education. The FVOB has already made comments on this. I regret that from 2017 the separate budget line for the FVOB and for the Walloon counterpart APEFE will be abolished. It is 19 million euros per year for both organisations. The equalisation of the FVOB and APEFE within the NGO budget line may result in the same rules applying to these public institutions as those of NGOs. However, cooperation with a government requires different rules of budget management as well as the use of instruments other than for NGOs. The specificity of NGOs can be recognised here, as well as that of the community organisations VVOB and APEFE, which have been mandated to work around education. Minister, a unitary soup will cause great confusion for the partners of both NGOs and the FVOB and the APEFE. The results in the field will suffer. That cannot be the intention of a minister who aims at greater quality and impact. I therefore ask you to review your decision to abolish the separate budget line for these organisations, because education is important in those countries. Waarvoor dank.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u100	Minister, I will speak on one point, which is topical. Your Government has announced that Belgium will contribute 50 million to the United Nations Green Climate Fund. We had a long debate on ghost help in committee, you remember. And I supported you in the face of Walloon ambitions to involve the development cooperation budget in the climate budget. A few weeks ago, you agreed with me that the climate fight must have its own budgets, not that of Development Cooperation. So you proposed a budget of 50 million. My question will be simple. What part of the development cooperation budget will contribute to this? The contribution to the Green Fund is independent of Development Cooperation. That's what you promised. I would like this to continue in this way. Moreover, Flanders has not yet announced its contribution. However, if it does not intervene, it is your budget that could be cut. I therefore invite you to conduct the necessary consultation to prevent you from being undressed and from reproducing what you have just done, that is to say, to undress Peter to redress Paul. I shall now turn to the Minister of Defence. Minister, we have discussed at length your budget, which, like all the others, is declining. We referred to the decline in investment. You've had little choice. Indeed, you have announced a strategic note valid for six months. Your budget choice therefore does not take policy options into account. In addition, for this year and for the years to come, you have chosen to replace the F-16s. This will have budgetary consequences when you have not organised pooling and sharing with our allies – from the European Union first, from NATO then. Moreover, we have still not decided what we would do in the area of mine clearance or as a replacement for the Frigates. It would not be necessary for a decision to be taken in the near future, from a budget of five to six billion, for a period of fifteen to twenty-five years, to obviate essential choices for military missions. In any case, we'll keep you underwear in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u101	Mr President, I hear Mr Hellings well, but I would like to make a point. Today, Wallonia's position with regard to this contribution is no different from that defended by the ministers Henry and Huytebroeck at the time. It was not for Wallonia to refuse to make its contribution, but to reject Mrs Marghem's proposal, which was very largely unfavourable to the regions. I wanted to draw attention to this point. Indeed, the objective is to ensure that the Regions and the federal government can contribute in a balanced manner. But it is not a question of adopting a position different from that defended by environmental ministers under the previous legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u102	Mr President, we are obviously pleased to see that Wallonia has come back to better considerations. But in his interview to which I referred, during the debate we had with the Minister at the time, Mr Furlan expressed his willingness to go fishing in the federal budget for development cooperation to find the resources allocated to the United Nations Green Fund. In the meantime, Wallonia has decided to make its contribution, which must be stressed. However, that was what Mr. Furlan said in his interview. In fact, I do not believe that the minister will contradict me on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u103	Mr President, first of all, I shall speak on the last subject which is the subject of intense discussion. In the area of development assistance, 50 million has been allocated to the Green Climate Fund. As a result, an additional 40 million have been added to the 10 million already planned. The amount in question should not have been spent in 2014 because some of the CTB's projects were not going to be realized and the budget aid to Uganda had been eliminated as a result of a corruption scandal in that country. The Finance Inspectorate had therefore decided that the planned amounts could not be allocated. As a result, the forty million in question were not going to be used in 2014. I discussed the matter with Mr.Jamar, the aim being to avoid spending this money and to use it usefully in 2015. Mrs Grovonius, I have heard you say that you want this to happen in a balanced way. I have the impression that, on the federal side, we will put more or less 50 million and the total sum of the Regions will be around 5 or 6 million. It is up to you to judge whether it is balanced or not, but I think that in an area where each level has played its part, saying that one fact is 90% and the other 10% does not really correspond to a balance. We cannot afford to arrive in Lima and say that we are Belgium, that we are a well-developed country in the centre of Europe and that we are going to make a plethora of 10 or 15 million when we know that the Netherlands makes more or less 100 million. The federal government took a decision that avoided losing face at European level. I'm chaining with other elements that you've put forward. You say we need more transversality. There is ongoing consultation between the ministers concerned. I take the example of the Syrian crisis, for which Mr Reynders manages the diplomatic and political sides while Cooperation manages humanitarian aid. Concertation is very regular. I come to a question from Mrs Pehlivan. One has to know what one wants. On the one hand, you say that there is a need for consultation. I would also like to take that consultation seriously. On the other hand, you say you don't know what I'll do. It's either one or the other. Either I decide autonomously, but then there is no consultation. At that time, you cannot complain that there has been no consultation. Either there is consultation, but then you also have to accept that this period of consultation will be used to make real choices and not to hold some kind of pseudo-consultation. I think that budgetary transparency is there. For 15 and 16 the amounts allocated are very clear. We are honouring the commitments made by the previous government. Nevertheless, it is clear that, starting in 2017, budgets will be allocated differently but after consultation. I would remind you that we are maintaining the stability of budgets 15 and 16 for all areas except multilaterals because we are rescheduling a budget at the level of the World Bank, which we have negotiated and which has been approved at that level. With regard to the ILO issue, the discussion on the fifteen multilateral organisations will take place at the beginning of next year. Let's go to the budget lines. It's a little technical. In fact, that is the application of the new royal decision on non-governmental actors, which was drafted by my predecessor, Minister Labille. So I am actually implementing what was decided in the previous government. In the previous government, the Minister found it wise to group some things together, and I am doing so. I hear the criticism of this, but it could perhaps have been expressed a little earlier. I want to make it very clear that the budgets for the FVOB or the APEFE remain in fact at the same level, but they are grouped into the budget. Technical reasons were put forward for this at the time. But this has no effect on the functioning. These are technical reasons at the budgetary level. You asked me about 600,000 euros for contextual analysis. These are additional means. The fight against poverty. When a general policy note mentions two areas on which we are working – human rights and sustainable and inclusive economic growth – I imagine that you can still make the deduction that sustainable and inclusive growth involves fighting poverty. If I hadn't put the word "inclusive," I could understand the criticism. I think this kind of economic growth is pretty clear. Investment in a private sector that is inclusive is a fight against poverty. Efforts to empower women and their access to education are elements that help to combat poverty. You asked why there is no specific budget for the Year of Development. It is a project of the European Commission. That's their budget. I do not see why I would provide an additional budget for this. This project starts on January 17 with an event in Brussels. I will naturally be present, as will the Queen. Debt reduction. Currently, there are no plans for 2015. You know that discussions on debt reduction are never autonomous, but always at a level of consultation. Just to give you an idea, what's left of us? Two countries have a somewhat consistent debt to us: Zimbabwe (58 million) and Sudan (820 million). When we do the political analysis in these two countries for the time being, I think that the time has not yet come for a debt reduction approach in these countries. Afghanistan; the mystery of the 15 million. At the development aid level, there are 6 million commitments and 4.8 million liquidations to UN Women, non-governmental organizations in Afghanistan and the World Bank. That is the part that is in the development aid budget. Mrs Claerhout, you spoke of human rights. As I said, there are two axes that we are moving forward. The protection of minorities is, of course, an essential part of this. They are minorities whatever they are, religious and certainly non-religious minorities. I don't want to make a distinction in that. The protection of minorities is an important element of it. You also spoke of the Great Lakes. The Great Lakes region is one of the two focus regions of South Africa, West and North Africa and the Great Lakes region. As Mr Reynders has said, the debate on Palestine will take place. Moving forward the idea of the two state solution is a crucial element of it that one must have a government that has the capacity to be a government for the whole territory. Looking at what we have done for Palestine in our development cooperation, it was mainly about developing the capacity of local and administrative authorities. I believe that the policy we have pursued so far is in line with that. Mrs Van Hoof, consultation with non-governmental actors is about the policies of non-governmental actors. That's the meeting I'm gonna have. The choice of partner countries for intergovernmental cooperation and the choice of multilateral organisations are not part of the dialogue with non-governmental actors. Otherwise we can actually outsource the entire policy, and that is absolutely not the intention. That meeting started about two weeks ago. Mrs Pehlivan has set the right date. The intention is to provide for a period of about five months. At the end of February, at the beginning of March, the sector of non-governmental actors was asked to come forward with a first proposal to be able to start the debate properly afterwards. As far as the budget is concerned, you are asking for more resources. We have had this debate on several occasions. I am counting on the support of your party colleagues within the government should the question arise. It is true, however, that we are making a choice for the least developed countries. We have had this debate a number of times. You say that today, in the middle-income countries, we have the most poor in terms of numbers. That is correct, but it is estimated that this will reverse over the next five to ten years and that it will once again be the least developed countries that will have the most poverty. That's a dynamic effect. We also see today that the middle-income countries are attracting other sources of funding. The largest growth in funding is taking place in those middle-income countries. Through official development assistance (ODE) but of course also through remittencies, via foreign investment, etc. The largest contraction occurs in the least developed countries. Burundi, for example, is a country where we are moving and others are leaving. The United Kingdom and the Netherlands are withdrawing from Burundi. We choose to go to the least developed countries where other development organisations often withdraw from. Our priority is there, and I believe that we can have the greatest impact there. I am not necessarily opposed to an ethical code, but it must be done at European level. A patchwork of ethical codes would be a bit weird. The emergency aid budget, as you will have seen, is about constant. As far as Ebola is concerned, there will be an evaluation after a month, you know that. We are already looking at how we can continue the actions with the Red Cross and Unicef in early 2015, with the new budget Once the crisis is under control, the big question for the Ebola countries will of course be: what now? In fact, it doesn't start until that moment. We must then see how such a crisis can be avoided in the future. Mrs Pehlivan, I would like to take this matter seriously. As a result, I will not make a choice immediately. You also mentioned inclusive economic growth. You say it's not mentioned anywhere. I would like to read you a passage from my political note which you seem to have read about. It says literally: economic growth must be inclusive. The majority of the population should participate equally and contribute to the economic process and benefit from it. The opportunities for socio-economic progress and social mobility should be increased for all. That is what the text says, so you cannot say that I would pursue a policy of economic growth that does not take account of the fight against poverty or that does not take account of the fight against inequality. I can only strongly contradict that. How do we do that? In taxation, very clearly. I also believe that our cooperation with the International Labour Organisation is very clear. You say there is no question of education. I move four clusters forward and education is one of them. Don't come here and tell me that education is not a priority in development cooperation policy. I hope that I have answered the pertinent, but often repeated questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u104	Does anyone ask for the floor for a reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u105	Mr President, Minister, in 2009, the then Minister of Cooperation, who is now Prime Minister, said that polluting the Development Cooperation budget with climate change aid was stupid. That's what he told MO Magazine and La Libre Belgique in 2009. I can find the articles for you. That's exactly what you're saying. On the other hand, you mentioned earlier that you discovered 40 million unallocated in the 2014 budget. However, the development cooperation budget, since 2012 and 2013, in cumulative terms, has lost 697 million. Are there not NGOs, administrations, projects that can be financed by these 40 million rather than allocating the 40 million you miraculously found to a project that has nothing to do with development cooperation? That $40 million can be used for something else. Today, NGOs are starving. They are concerned about their own budgets. You are going to undermine these budgets as you allocate the budget of Development Cooperation miraculously found to something totally alien to this matter! This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u106	Minister, when I was talking about education, I was referring specifically to primary education. EUR 19 million less is allocated to organisations investing in certain countries. I went to Cambodia last week in the framework of the Education Committee of the Flemish Parliament and I clearly saw that we really need to invest in primary education. EUR 19 million less means that the effects they are now developing there will have to be reduced. That is what I wanted to draw attention to.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u107	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. However, I have a comment to make. You said that it is up to the government and Parliament to make the choice of partner countries and that non-governmental actors have nothing to do with that. If we then align the funding of NGOs with the partner countries chosen by the government, it will have an impact. If we decide that NGOs working in the 15 partner countries receive 100% funding and the others do not, it will have an impact. That is why there is some concern about the route. I have not really heard you say how that will happen and on the basis of what criteria one will make choices. Will this be done by means of consultation, by means of a royal decision which comes only from you or by means of a royal decision negotiated in the Council of Ministers? It is important that this is discussed, as it could have an impact on non-governmental actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u108	Mr President, I too would have liked answers on these elements and, in particular, on the question concerning the ILO. I, too, remain puzzled about the sudden discovery of 40 million euros at the end of the year. Since I also have a lot of examples of catastrophic situations in the world, I cannot understand how we can end up with such unused amounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u109	Mr President, it seems that the Green Climate Fund is very much to be discussed. I would like to move one more element forward. I have received a letter from Mr Magnette and Mr Furlan, in which they tell me that they do not intend to make an effort for the Green Climate Fund. Development cooperation can do anything. It's in the letter I got. So much for the sense of responsibility of some of the members of the regional governments about a global problem and on which everyone agrees that something should be done about it. I am glad that in the end it was decided to release a few million euros. Mr Hellings, you also know how NGOs are financed. This funding is based on programmes and agreements that we conclude. If at the end of the year we could find a few million euros, which we would hand out a little bit on the left and right, then we would see what the NGOs are doing with that, then you would be rubbing me with inappropriate governance. The money available in Development Cooperation is not always spent either. For example, in Sudan, we decided not to spend it, because the inspection of finance indicated a problem of corruption and advised that it was better not to spend the money because it would be used wrongly. Now we propose that we use that money to do something about climate finance. However, you say that development cooperation has nothing to do with climate finance. For a party like Ecolo, I actually think that's great news. We are talking about EUR 50 million that would not otherwise be used. I would like to use it to finance the climate, but you, as a green party, would rather not spend that money instead of using it usefully. Or you would rather give it to Sudan, where we know it will be used for corruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u110	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, you can scream, but you undress Peter to dress Paul. You are using a Development Cooperation budget for an end that has nothing to do with it. Of course it is not about financing corruption in Sudan or elsewhere! But a budget for development cooperation must be used for development cooperation. Today, the Green Fund cannot be financed by development cooperation; yet, that is what you are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u111	Mr President, Mr Minister, during the discussions on the policy note, the policy note and the budget, the PS Group was able to see the lack of a strategic and comprehensive vision for Defence and, more broadly, for our country's international projection. The review of the 2015 budget makes it possible for everyone to realize the scale of certain cuts, the lack of European vision or ambition. For our part, we did this exercise in a precise, concrete and constructive manner in the presentation of the Ministers' guidance notes. We have thus made a great many recommendations, rejected by the majority. We also presented strategic directions for 2015-2030 in the area of Defence. If you don't have the document, minister, I can give it to you without a problem. Furthermore, Mr Minister, in the coming months we will be putting on the agenda various motions for resolutions on certain priority themes. It must be noted that while all departments are affected by budget savings, some departments are far more affected than others. Unfortunately, this is the case for National Defence, which is affected by a cumulative savings of €1.7 billion. For this department, the criticisms made by our group as soon as the government agreement was reached are therefore confirmed, both by the budget and by the cunning opinion of the Court of Auditors. This one resonates like a heavy artillery fire. It's not a bad pun, it's reality! Each line of this opinion undermines this budget, which is not on the road and has corroborated the concerns that our group had expressed during the discussions on the government agreement and on your guidance note. For the 2015 budget alone, it is not less than 240 million euros that are lacking to ensure the minimum functioning of the army. I may have made too much progress when I spoke to you earlier about a government going into war because there will obviously be no means for that! In its agreement, the government made it clear that it would give the army the means to carry out its duties properly. The Court of Auditors estimates that with a budget cut of EUR 255 million out of an allocation of EUR 2.5 billion, Defence is in a most critical situation. Flight plans will be halved, 10% of naval manoeuvres will be eliminated, there will be no more money for the maintenance of armoured vehicles, even more money for ammunition. But, Minister, a department which does not invest, which does not know where it is going, is simply doomed to disappear! Contrary to what you have already had the opportunity to say, Minister, the PS does not discover the Defence budget. We have always been the ardent supporters of a modern and well-equipped Defence in the service of peace and people. This is clearly reflected in our strategic vision of Defence. Because yes, we have a strategic vision in this area, unlike Mr. From Crem and the Michel government so far. It was with great interest that I was able to reread the interventions of the MR and the N-VA on last year's budget. The MR expressed concern and wondered how Belgium would participate in international operations. As for N-VA, she pointed out that the previous government had taken decisions that seriously undermined the implementation of many projects. Indeed, the previous government had asked the Defence to make efforts, as was the case with all other departments. As a reminder, this budget allowed 83% of the investment plan approved in 2012. In the configuration then, neither the staff nor the training nor even the operations were affected because, for us, it is the core business of our Defence. Evidence that concrete savings and investments were possible. That's what we call rationalization, minister. Here, we are not faced with a rationalisation budget, but with a massive destruction budget. A budget that we strongly oppose. This budget directly threatens, as of 2015, the core missions of our National Defence that will have to survive. This budget is marked by a sentence, on page 38, which has the merit of leaving no ambiguity: "No commitment appropriations are entered in terms of equipment." This government has made the choice of budget cuts, even before setting priorities, even before drafting a strategic plan that you promise us in six months' time. For a department that, according to the MR and the N-VA, was not to be hit by new savings, the addition proved salty and the disillusionment of the military was profound. For its part, the Court of Auditors also stresses the Government's desire to abolish all investment appropriations for the renewal of rolling stock, major equipment and infrastructure of the armed forces. Except for possible recourse to the famous interdepartmental provision for urgent markets. This interdepartmental reserve could have been beneficial to the Defence if it were the only department that needed it. Unfortunately - we had the opportunity to discuss it yesterday - we are far from the point. Minister, in your guidance note, you told us that we would see more clearly at the time of the budget. Indeed, we see it more clearly. Nothing's planned, little. We have also seen three major weaknesses. Aid to the nation and the B-FAST are mentioned at the end of the lifts. Moreover, linguistic balance will only be taken into account. I guess Mr. Ducrame must have enjoyed it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u112	Contrary to what your group leader recently expressed on a television channel and what you say today, linguistic balance will be taken into account. Under the previous government, we had already indicated that this would be a major concern. The minister's objective, the government's objective, will be to restore linguistic balance. I hope, indeed, that we can achieve better results than we did under the previous government. On many occasions, I called on your party president, who was then Prime Minister, to activate his government in this direction. That was not the case. I see and I think today that with a Minister N-VA...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u113	An ex-future minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u114	Again, you are going against the commitment that is made in the government agreement, what is written in the minister's policy note and policy note! We will ensure that we move towards linguistic balance at the Defence level. The Reform Movement will pay particular attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u115	Thank you, Mr. Ducrame, for that clarification. That is not what we read in the statements at all, but I am happy to hear that. I am pleased to be able to discuss this with you in Parliament quickly on the basis of the proposals, if I have heard you correctly, which the minister will not fail to make. In terms of operations abroad, it seems to me that the only clear policy of this government is to withdraw where our contribution is a success – I am of course thinking of Lebanon – and to threaten our yet very important empowerment missions in Central Africa. This refers to a maximum of 600 troops deployed. This is well below what was done under the previous government. Today we received a delegation from the Democratic Republic of the Congo who spoke at length about the actions of our military there. They really hope that their mission can continue or even be extended. With regard to participation in the international coalition, we have just learned that the government had decided to send trainers to Iraq; first two and, eventually, about fifty men, while maintaining the participation of the F-16s. However, we are also cutting – and the Court of Auditors has made the remark – in the budgetary means for military participation. Will this participation, which is now going to be double, eat the entire budget for operations abroad? I was also surprised to hear you say earlier that we're not going to a war zone. It's surreal! For you, therefore, Iraq as a whole is clearly not at war. You make a deliberate choice to send men on the ground, on Iraqi soil, even if they are trainers. In doing so, you are clearly outside the scope of the resolution voted in this Parliament and it will be very clearly without our support. Minister, we have also been able to read in the press that, as part of your strategic plan, you want to list the essential tasks of the army. You cite a concrete example, medical. You point out the cost of the Neder-over-Heembeek military hospital and I quote: "their skills are indisputable – so far, everything is fine – especially for the big burns, but you have to ask yourself whether it is a defence mission or a public health mission. Today, it costs a lot. Consideration should be given to how the service can be provided and how Defence can be paid for the services provided. Today, these remunerations benefit the general resources, not the Defence." What to understand? Will this government's only strategic choice be to remove the medical component, which is essential to the deployment of our forces? We know that, too, you said. This government aims to charge the people for assistance missions, which would also be too costly. These include large burns, rescue at sea and, above all, assistance to municipalities in the event of disasters. Again, we did not have a clear answer. We still know nothing about this important issue for us, who consider this mission to be Defence's second priority mission after international operations. In conclusion, I would also like to talk about the role of memory. We are deeply concerned about the memory role of National Defence. Defence is an essential and indispensable player in the work of memory and all that it involves, including at the social level and its successors. As we know, 2014 opened the commemorations of the Great War. The House had adopted a text on these commemorations, which the N-VA group had rejected at that time. Therefore, one can worry about the future of this competence, which now belongs to the N-VA, while the budgets of the Royal Museum of the Army and the CETESOMA are drastically diminished. If this is to be done with respect for the competences of each entity, a federalism of cooperation and not of competition vis-à-vis history is needed. We would all have to lose and the debate in the Committee on Public Health on the chapter on war victims has not reassured us at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u116	Mr Crusnière, I did not react immediately, because I thought I heard you wrong. You have, allegedly, a strategic plan 2015-2030. I've heard something so ironic. After decades of socialist policy, you left a mess with the Defense Department. Because of disinterest, we inherited a Defense Department with incredibly unhealthy foundations. The problems that existed under Minister Flahaut in 2001 are still the problems of today. The former Secretary of Defense tried to straighten these cases out, but he was always hit on a red wall, on a PS no. I wrote down very quickly what we in Defense inherited after decades of socialist policy. The average age is 42 years. That is ten years younger in our neighbouring country. We have a shortage of staff in functional areas such as the medical sector and technical professions. We have more than 2 000 soldiers who are not medically qualified. There is an inadequate staff status. There is no effective psychosocial counseling. There's a neglected infrastructure. There's a major outburst in recruitment. There is a completely distorted ratio of staff costs, which is 72% of the budget. Investment, which should normally be 20%, has fallen to 4%. Large investment files have been constantly pushed out. I find it incredibly ironic that you are here to say that you have a strategic plan 2015-2030, now that we have reached the lower limit. I've never heard anything like it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u117	Mrs Grosemans, when it comes to bad faith, it must be recognised that you are very strong. Have at least the courage to recognize that the investments that have been made for the army in recent years have been at the initiative of Mr Flahaut. Mr. De Crem only continued his policy. Have at least the courage to recognize this! As for our strategic plan, I will communicate it to you. I really invite you to read it. It is true that we do not share the same vision of the army at all. We want a strong and effective army. However, in view of the measures taken, this is not your intention. I understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u118	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my group is in favour of strong, credible and efficient defence. We believe that this should be done within a European framework. Nor do we see any contradiction between NATO and the European Union in this respect. We are convinced that we are over the stage of philosophizing how to do it. Europe will, above all, have to continue to demonstrate the added value it can bring in the military field. Pooling and sharing is important in our country's global position. We have had the opportunity to debate this on a number of occasions in committee. The aim is to become increasingly involved in European cooperation on investment. For example, the countries concerned should no longer focus on all tasks, but can focus on specializations in certain areas. This reduces the cost picture of all participants and increases efficiency through scaling. A first important step in this was taken by your predecessor, Minister De Crem, in 2009, during the European Presidency in Ghent. It succeeded in reaching an agreement between the 27 Member States of the Union on pooling and sharing. But, ladies and gentlemen, we must join forces and this can only succeed if there is a win-win situation for all parties or participants. Minister, there is a significant reduction in the defence budget. As a result of this reduction, Defence will achieve a total reduction from €1.5 billion to €1.7 billion in 2019. The policy letter also indicates that it is necessary to make several choices in the areas of missions, staff and investment. To this end, a long-term strategic vision will be drawn up and submitted to the government. In this context, when we discussed the policy paper with the group, we called for a series of hearings to be held on the key tasks debate and on the future of our army. I am pleased that the President has responded to this and that after New Year we can discuss the future of our army with the parties concerned. Mr President, I would like to reiterate the importance of these hearings. In this way, we can come up with a shared vision of defence, of our army. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the policy paper makes it clear that the interdepartmental commission will be used. It is important that the DOD has sufficient resources to invest in the security of its personnel, in operations, in equipment and in infrastructure. It is more than logical that it should be entitled to the interdepartmental commission for this purpose. Only, other departments are also faced with unexpected expenditure and may also wish to rely on this commission. This means, of course, that if this commission were to be used up, military operations would no longer be possible. We think that is a very worrying observation. In addition, the budgetary constraints should not be excused, nor should they be an alibi for not developing defence resources when they need to be deployed. The budget savings will also have to address the debate on barracks. In this context, my group would like to ask for Parliament and the committee to be involved as much as possible. Colleagues, important with regard to the Belgian role as an international actor, is efficiency. My group is therefore in favour of combating the fragmentation of missions and assignments. I have said it a few times in committee. For us, Minister, the UN as a multilateral body remains very important. We therefore call for participation from the UN to be looked at and based on the principle of Burden-and-Risk Sharing in which each UN Member State must assume its responsibilities. Minister, in your policy paper and policy letter we read that participation in foreign missions is a key mission, that this is the core business of Defence. That is a vision shared by my group. We noted this morning that the Council of Ministers gave the green light for the continuation of its participation in the operation in Iraq. It is also new that 50 soldiers could go to Iraq as part of training and advice. Mr Crusnière, it is a good thing that our country is making an important contribution to the fight in Iraq in this regard. The Minister said this afternoon that two scouts will first be sent out to look at the possibilities on the ground. I think this is the right approach, Minister. No military are deployed in war and no military are sent to the front either. Mr. Secretary, we have the air operation now. Military forces are being sent to help the Iraqi army. Does this mean that there will be a link between the deployment of F-16... and the army's training-and-advice-equipe? What's your vision on that? Other military missions, such as the protection and evacuation of nationals, the Coast Guard, marine rescue operations, assistance to the nation if civil protection is insufficient, will be evaluated according to the added value of these tasks. Minister, when can we expect the evaluation of the military's commitment to non-military missions? What's your timing on the matter? Finally, the coalition agreement states that Defence takes on a number of other permanent tasks and that the government will evaluate them for their added value. The policy statement states that Defence will assume a number of other tasks and may pass on the costs. We must be careful that in the combination of cooperation between the Interior and Defence, Defence does not become the maid for all work and that we really use Defence for which it has been established and for which it is given the mandate of Parliament and the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u119	Minister, I must admit that I sincerely feel sorry for you. At the beginning of October 2014, you said proudly: "Defension has been able to avoid the big axe in the government negotiations." At that time, you probably didn't know what you were hanging over your head. You didn't know at the time that the defense would have to save and even save heavily. The budget figures hadn't been knocked off yet, but they looked pretty safe for your department. Minister, I feel sorry for you, because I can imagine that you fell off your chair when I saw the savings figures presented in the budget. In practice, these savings correspond to the following. Only 1 360 new military personnel will be recruited instead of 1 690 training activities will be reduced by almost 15%; the size of a flight plan will be reduced by 10 to 50 %, depending on the type of aircraft, the Navy component will see its navigation program reduced by about 10 % and by 2015 the planned number of days of manoeuvres will be 10 % lower than in 2014. Colleagues, training, training and sufficient material are all at risk. Minister, as your fellow Minister, Mr Jambon, does, it is also necessary for the defence sector to have a key task debate. What are the tasks to be performed by the Defense Department? That is certainly not an easy exercise, not for the Defense Department, nor for you. After all, having a key task debate is not an easy task, especially when it is so bluntly saved. The fierceness of the savings round in the Defense Department creates an emptiness in that debate. With the mantra which is repeated to the point that we must be efficient and do more with less resources, we are always losing sight of the need for a minimum of staff to carry out all the core tasks. Defense can't avoid the savings round. We think that is logical, because budgetary reality does not allow for anything else. There are choices to be made, although I do have questions about budgetary choices. My concern with regard to investment is particularly serious. To what extent can one still be a solid, reliable partner by proclaiming that Belgium will first save money to invest later? You also expect to be entitled to the EUR 100 million budget in the interdepartmental commission, as my fellow Members have already mentioned. In that saving logic one should advocate an or-story instead of an en-story. You'd better specialize in something instead of doing everything halfway. Budgetary unreality is provided with new high-tech material for all components. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give an example of the replacement of the F-16. Most of these aircraft will have reached a maximum of 8 000 hours by 2023. We do not dispute that, but the scenario proposed to purchase 40 aircraft as a replacement is not realistic. The military doesn't have that many options. The surveillance of our airspace also does not require 40 aircraft, and so we come to our or-story. It also shows little respect for the army to regard only the Air Component as an important part. If we turn our backs on every new technology from the arms industry, we will soon be bankrupt. I want a solid argument. Indeed, Belgium does not spend much money on defence, at least according to NATO standards. However, these are obsolete strangulation targets from the Cold War era. Let me quote your colleague, not from political light years ago, but from 2013. Then your party colleague Francken said: "In the meantime, after the US and after France, we are the NATO country that is active on most of the shows in Africa. Are we talking about Belgium, or about a world power such as Britain or the United States? Mrs Grosemans also found the purchase of fighter planes a budgetary suicide in 2011. Should they be replaced, and if so, by whom and for whom and who? Mr. Secretary, Defense is already in serious trouble. You've pointed that out several times. Budgetaryly, your department will have to turn in very heavy. At the same time, however, you also point out the importance of combat aircraft. I'd like to know what it's gonna be. How on earth can you put such investments forward in the current budgetary reality? You can see where the shoe is wringing. Such an investment in a department that needs to go through a heavy savings round cannot be carried out without taking on other parts of the Defense Department for that excessive ambition. You therefore choose to have the staff pay the bill. The savings you will have to make can only lead to either naked layoffs, or unsafe work situations, or a Defense Department that is unable to comply with all basic agreements. As indicated in the committee meetings, personnel costs are high at the Department of Defence. In the long term, however, you will opt for large investments, accompanied by substantial savings on staff. Then you should also know that you need sufficient specialised staff to complete our missions and also to deal efficiently with all that equipment. The most important thing is that you will forward the invoice to the next governments. However, you yourself are opposed to this method. In your city earlier this week, you were disappointed with your local budget. Let me quote you literally: 'I wonder what is really the worst: this budget, or the fact that you yourself believe what you are saying'. Or even more: you are fooling yourself by postponing the repayment of loans. I predict that by the end of this legislature you will saddle the city with a great debt. ........................................................................................ You clearly understand my concerns. Finally, I would like to make my final point, in particular transparency. I know that it is an additional problem that every Secretary of State for Defence has barely publicly communicated over the last few decades about the large military purchases. Even if you bring together the Army Procurement Commission, it will usually only be after a decision has been taken. You insist on several occasions that you do indeed inform Parliament. I remember the interesting discussion a month ago as if it were yesterday. The questions and answers of the round question related to the F-16 lottery were asked. The survey was sent to five manufacturers. I kept my notes and the answer was that we would get the documents by 17 December. You can invoke the excuse that the planned committee did not meet, but no one is preventing you from delivering those documents to the committee members. At that time we might have already received a piece of homework for the Christmas celebrations. The promise was there, but we haven't received any documents yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u120	Mr President, I would like to thank the speakers for their comments, particularly Mr Crusnière. The good thing, Mr Crusnière, is that I can always give the same answers if you continue to make the same comments. Your comments on my budget are to my mind somewhat happy again, because after your party withdrew EUR 700 million from the army during the previous legislatures and after your party vetoed the implementation of a number of investment programmes, you have come to tell me that you consider the budget of Defence and Defence to be very important in itself. Thank you for that. That's happy news. We will be able to work well together in the future. As regards your concern about foreign missions, I can only refer you to what I said in committee and what I said this afternoon. It has already been widely communicated that we have set out a limited number of missions. As Mr Yüksel pointed out, this government wants to reduce fragmentation through the large number of operations. I really wonder what interests you have in Lebanon, which means that you expect us to allow more than 100 soldiers to be there when there is no demand for their specific tasks. They cannot carry out any mission there within the framework of the UN mission for which we have subscribed. 400 blue points have been demined, 200 are still on the list, but none of those 200 have been released by the different partners at the moment. There is therefore no work for our mineworkers at the moment, and we have said that we want to bring them back. Last week I also said in committee that if it is necessary and if the UN calls again on our specific knowledge, I will be the first to study that question. This is also an answer to Mr Yüksel's question to register us in more UN missions, in the context of risk-and-burden sharing. Nothing stops me from looking at appropriate questions from the UN, but we will no longer spread our troops on too many missions. In fact, Mr Top also thinks that this is a problem; he himself said that we are now operating everywhere in Africa. I've taken note of that. We are indeed active in many places in Africa. Are we perhaps a world power? I wonder what it must be. Two weeks ago, I received representatives from the UN in my cabinet to study their questions. I can tell you that their proposals are not directly in line with what we can offer. If the UN asks us for fighter helicopters, I am very sorry, but we do not have them. So we can't deliver them either. Mr Crusnière, your interventions are always a kind of intention process. You expressed your concern about the role we play in the commemorations. I don't know where you get your information or what statements you might base yourself on. I can confirm that my cabinet is working hard on the commemorations of 14-18 and on the preparation of the commemorations of 40-45. Actions have also been taken for the commemoration of the Battle of Waterloo. Many employees are working on this. So I don't know where you're getting your information or what you're trying to pin on me by calling that kind of thing. It must be me. You are concerned about the charging of services provided and want a key task debate. We shall indeed do so. However, you should not be surprised that this debate shows that certain tasks are not part of the core tasks of the defence industry, or indeed not in the way in which we are carrying them out today. Then that must be our conclusion. We disagree about the defence that we need. The core task debate, nor the debates that we will have in the coming years, will be able to change that. Well, that's how she is. Mr Yüksel, you asked a question about the link between the ground operation and the air operation in Iraq. Of course there isn't. That's two very different things. With our F-16s we do a lot of reconnaissance flights and support flights for what we call friendly troops, either Iraqi troops or Kurdish fighters. Our soldiers on the ground will have a specific training and advisory function. It is a training function outside the war zone, outside the area where fighting is taking place. There's no fighting all over Iraq, Mr. Crusnière. There are also areas where there is no fighting and where it is relatively safe. In the places where we will deploy our military, we will check that security is sufficient. Mr Yüksel, as far as the evaluation of the non-military missions of the army is concerned, we are making that exercise. You asked me for timing. I will try to keep to the timing agreed in the coalition agreement as much as possible. You're right. You're right. The DOD shouldn't be the maid for all the work. On the other hand, it is also useful and important to think about the definition of help to the nation and how we can implement it, which is also effectively perceived by the nation as useful. We don't want to be the maid for all the work or the cheap sidekick on the weekends. Well, that's pretty obvious. Mr Crusnière, as regards the much-needed things for municipalities and so on, that has always been the case. It is also true, however, that at that time it is only fair that everyone is equal before the law and that all services also work under the same conditions and can charge the costs they make effective. Mr Top, thank you for your condolences, but I don't really need it. I believe that few people get better with compassion. I can actually really appreciate your intervention. If I look at your programme, which states that you are for an army of 20 000 people and a budget of EUR 1.7 billion, then I can only say that you realise that what is planned today is not enough. You won't hear me say anything else. I've been asked what my lower limit is for the army. I said that my lower limit has already been reached. However, this government has chosen to go to a budget in balance and Defence must contribute to this. I'll be the Minister of Defense as hard as I can. If you say that we have to make choices between insecurity, failure to comply with a number of appointments or lay off naked, I have said quite early that naked layoffs are not an option for me and that insecurity is not an option for me either. In that sense, you will understand that we will have to make a number of choices at some point. However, I can assure you that if we employ people who will be well equipped, they will be well prepared and they will have the training they need. That is a guarantee that we will at least be able to offer. As for your choice of dropping the hunting capacity into the air, it is good that you say that clearly. It would also be a good thing for you to say that to the people who are active in the air system, to the air component. You can say leave Little Brogel and Florennes alone and forget about Beauvechain. You can tell those people that we will have no work for them in the future and that they will lose weight if we go to 20 000 people. At least I wrote that down. One more point. It is a good thing that we occasionally conduct village politics in this hemisphere and I am of course very pleased that you used the chair here to point out in what lamely bad debt situation my city is under the administration of your mayor. Thank you very much for using the chair for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u121	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u122	We will begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill on Resources for the financial year 2015. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (495/1+5) We will proceed to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the 2015 Budget for Ways and Means. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (495/1+5) The draft law has 20 articles. The bill has 20 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u123	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the draft law on the Resources Budget for the financial year 2015 will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the entire bill containing the 2015 Budget for Ways and Means will take place at a later date. We will begin the discussion of the articles of the draft general budget for the financial year 2015. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (496/1+2+43) We proceed to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the general estimates for the 2015 fiscal year. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (496/1+2+43) No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u124	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the draft law on the general budget for expenditure for the financial year 2015 will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the entire bill containing the general budget for the 2015 budget year will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u125	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills. A limited general discussion was held in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with rule 116 of the Rules, bills are subject to limited general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u126	The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Piedboeuf. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The limited general discussion is closed. The limited general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u127	We have discussed the articles of Bill No. 689 on. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (689/1) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill 689. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (689/1) The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u128	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We have discussed the articles of Bill No. 691 on. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (691/1+5) (689/2) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill 691. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (691/1+5) (689/2) The draft law has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u129	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u130	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Klaps. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u131	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (673/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (673/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u132	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u133	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sonja Becq, Egbert Lachaert, Raf Terwingen, Gilles Foret, Carina Van Cauter, Philippe Goffin
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u134	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Van Vaerenbergh. She refers to her report. Mr Brotcorne has informed me that he wanted to intervene, but he is not present in the hemisphere. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u135	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (683/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (683/5) The bill has 33 articles. The bill has 33 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u136	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u137	The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Luk Van Biesen, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. The votes on the 2013 accounts and the 2015 budgets of the Chamber of Representatives and on the funding of the political parties will take place later. Votes on the 2013 accounts and 2015 budgets of the House of Representatives and for the financing of political parties will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u138	The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Deseyn, refers to his report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. Voting on the 2013 accounts, the 2013 and 2014 budget adjustments and the 2015 budget proposals will take place later. Votes on the 2013 accounts, adjustments to the 2013 and 2014 budgets and the 2015 budget proposals will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u139	In accordance with Article 1, 4° of the Law of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of electoral expenditure for the election of the Chamber of Representatives, the financing and open accounting of the political parties, as amended by Article 3 of the Law of 6 January 2014, the Chamber should appoint four experts (2 N + 2 F) to sit on the Audit Board with voting rights. In accordance with Article 1, 4°, of the Law of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of election expenses incurred for the elections of the House of Representatives and on the financing and open accounting of political parties, as amended by Article 3 of the Law of 6 January 2014, the Chamber must appoint four experts (2 F + 2 N) who will sit with the right to vote on the Control Board. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 11 December 2014. Nominations were announced in plenary on 11 December 2014. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we should not vote for the two mandates of the Dutch-speaking expert, since there are only two candidates for the two mandates. As a result, Mr Herman Matthijs and Mr Emmanuel Vandenbossche were elected experts of the Audit Board on the election and accounting of political parties pursuant to Article 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no need for a vote on the two terms of office of Dutch-speaking expert. Indeed, there are only two candidates for these two terms. I therefore declare Messrs. Herman Matthijs and Emmanuel Vandenbossche, pursuant to rule 157.6 of the House's Rules of Procedure, as experts of the Commission for the Control of Election Expenses and the Accounting of Political Parties. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. We must appoint two French-speaking experts. We must appoint two Francophone experts. The document containing the names of the candidates (document No. 703/1) has been distributed. The document with the names of the petitioners (Doc. No 703/1) was distributed. Since the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. The ladies Yoleen Van Camp and Nawal Ben Hamou are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Yoleen Van Camp and Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. At the call of his name, each member is asked to submit his unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum, from my left to my right. I would point out that the votes cast on more than two candidates are invalid. I would remind you that the votes cast in favour of more than two candidates are invalid. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call. Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u140	Ms Annemie Neyts-Uyttebroeck, Member of the European Parliament, resigned on 1 January 2015. Ms Annemie Neyts-Uyttebroeck, Member of the European Parliament, resigned on 1 January 2015. The first successor to replace her is Ms. Hilde Vautmans. The first alternate to replace her is Ms Hilde Vautmans. The election of the latter as an alternate member of the European Parliament was approved at the plenary session of our assembly on 30 June 2014. The election of the latter as an alternate member of the European Parliament was validated by our Assembly during the sitting on 30 June 2014. The person concerned fulfils the eligibility conditions laid down in Articles 1 and 41 of the Law of 23 March 1989 concerning the election of the European Parliament. The person concerned fulfils the conditions of eligibility laid down in Articles 1 and 41 of the Law of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament. I propose that Mrs Hilde Vautmans be proposed as a permanent Member of the European Parliament. I therefore propose that you present Mrs Hilde Vautmans as an effective member of the European Parliament. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u141	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In line with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 December 2014, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne, Mrs Catherine Fonck, Mr Benoît Lutgen, Mr Christian Brotcorne, Mr Francis Delpérée and Mr Benoît Dispa, Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mr Isabelle Poncelet) on the official recognition of the Palestinian State by Belgium and the European Union (No. 718/1); - the motion for a resolution (Mr Olivier Maingain and Mrs Véronique Caprasse) on the recognition of the Palestinian State by Belgium (No. 719/1); - the motion for a resolution (Mr Hendrik Vuye, Mr Peter Luykx and Mr Denis Ducarme, Mrs Kattrin Jadin, Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Mrs Sarah Claerhout, Mr Patrick Dewael, Mrs Nele Lijnen and Mr Peter De Roover) on the recognition of the Palestinian State by Belgium (No. 721/1), - the motion for a resolution (Mr Sarah Claerhout and Mr Nahima Lanjri, Mr Stefaan Vercamer and Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mrs Kattrin Jadin) on the situation in Burundi (Doc. 722/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u142	- the bill (Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Carina Van Cauter and Sonja Becq and Mr Philippe Goffin and Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh) amending the Legal Code as regards personal appearance in family matters (No. 724/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u143	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 December 2014, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne, Mrs Catherine Fonck, MM. Benoît Lutgen, Christian Brotcorne, Francis Delperée and Benoît Dispa, Ms Vanessa Matz and Ms Isabelle Poncelet and Mr Melchior Wathelet) on the official recognition of the State of Palestine by Belgium and the European Union (No 718/1); - the motion for a resolution (Mr Olivier Maingain and Mrs Véronique Caprasse) on the recognition by Belgium of the Palestinian State (No 719/1); - the motion for a resolution (MM. Hendrik Vuye, Peter Luykx and Denis Ducrame, Ms. Kattrin Jadin, Mr. Servais Verherstraeten, Ms. Sarah Claerhout, Mr. Patrick Dewael, Ms. Nele Lijnen and Mr. Peter De Roover) for the recognition of the Palestinian State by Belgium (No. 721/1); - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Sarah Claerhout and Nahima Lanjri, Mr Stefaan Vercamer and Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mrs Kattrin Jadin) concerning the situation in Burundi (No 722/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u144	- the bill (Ms. Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Carina Van Cauter and Sonja Becq and Mr. Philippe Goffin and Ms. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh) amending the Judicial Code with regard to personal appearance in family matters (No. 724/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u145	Are you sure you don't mind? (No) It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u146	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 132 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts of the Chamber of Representatives for the financial year 2013. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2013 budget year accounts of the House of Representatives. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u147	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 121 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the budget of the Chamber of Representatives for the financial year 2015. Accordingly, the House adopts the budget for the 2015 budget year of the House of Representatives. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u148	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 131 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts for the financial year 2013 on the financing of the political parties. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2013 budget year accounts relating to the financing of political parties. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u149	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u150	Mr President, the debate will come in the coming weeks: it is about the possibility of being recognized as a national party, which has therefore won national votes and not a Francophone community party. We are awaiting explanations from the Ministry of the Interior on the justification of our allocations, but we will be leading the political debate in the next two weeks on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u151	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 132 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the budget for the financial year 2015 for the financing of the political parties. Accordingly, the House adopts the budget for the 2015 budget year for the financing of political parties. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u152	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court of Auditors shall adopt the accounts of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2013. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the accounts for the 2013 budget year of the Court of Auditors. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u153	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u154	Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts of the Constitutional Court for the financial year 2013. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2013 budget year accounts of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u155	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u156	Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts of the High Council for Justice for the financial year 2013. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2013 budget year accounts of the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u157	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u158	Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision for the financial year 2013. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2013 budget year accounts of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u159	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u160	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services for the financial year 2013. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2013 budget year accounts of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u161	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u162	Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts of the College of Federal Ombudsmen for the financial year 2013. As a result, the House adopts the 2013 budget year accounts of the College of Federal Ombudsmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u163	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u164	Consequently, the Court adopts the Commission's accounts for the financial year 2013 for the protection of privacy. As a result, the House adopts the 2013 budget year accounts of the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u165	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u166	Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts for the financial year 2013 of the Appointment Committees for the notary. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2013 budget year accounts of the notariat's appointment commissions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u167	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u168	Consequently, the Court takes over the accounts of the BIM Commission for the financial year 2013. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the accounts for the 2013 budget year of the BIM Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u169	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 122 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court of Auditors shall adopt the amendment of the budget of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2014. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2014 budget year of the Court of Auditors. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u170	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u171	Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the budget of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision for the financial year 2014. Accordingly, the House adopted the adjustment of the budget for the 2014 budget year of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u172	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u173	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the adjustment of the budget for the financial year 2014 to the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services. Accordingly, the House adopted the adjustment of the 2014 budget of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u174	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u175	Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the 2014 budget of the College of Federal Ombudsmen. Accordingly, the House adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2014 budget year of the College of Federal Ombudsmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u176	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u177	Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the Commission's budget for the financial year 2013 for the protection of privacy. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the 2013 budget of the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u178	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u179	Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the Commission's budget for the financial year 2014 for the protection of privacy. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the 2014 budget of the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u180	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u181	Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the budget for the financial year 2014 of the Appointment Committees for the notaryate. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2014 budget year of the Commissions of Appointment for the Notariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u182	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u183	Consequently, the Court of Auditors' budget proposals for the financial year 2015 are adopted by the Court of Auditors. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2015 budget year of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u184	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u185	Consequently, the Court adopts the draft budget of the Constitutional Court for the financial year 2015. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2015 budget year of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u186	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u187	Consequently, the Court of Auditors adopts the budget proposals for the 2015 financial year of the Supreme Court of Justice. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2015 budget year of the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u188	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u189	Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals for the financial year 2015 of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. Accordingly, the House adopted the budget proposals for the 2015 budget year of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u190	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u191	Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals for the financial year 2015 of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services. Accordingly, the House adopted the budget proposals for the 2015 budget year of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u192	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u193	Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals of the College of Federal Ombudsmen for the financial year 2015. Accordingly, the House adopts the budget proposals for the 2015 budget year of the College of Federal Ombudsmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u194	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u195	Consequently, the Court adopts the Commission's budget proposals for the financial year 2015 for the protection of privacy. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2015 budget year of the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u196	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u197	Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals for the financial year 2015 of the Appointment Committees for the notary. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2015 budget year of the notariat nomination commissions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u198	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u199	Consequently, the Court adopts the BIM Commission's budget proposals for the financial year 2015. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2015 budget year of the BIM Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u200	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u201	Consequently, the Court adopts the budgetary proposals for the 2015 financial year of the Supervisory Body's Police Information. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2015 budget year of the Police Information Review Body.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u202	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? We are voting on the bill to adjust the Ways and Means budget for the 2014 fiscal year. What matters is what I'm saying. We are voting on the draft law on the adjustment of the resource budget for the financial year 2014. The vote is still taking place.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u203	Mr President, the draft which was the subject of a unanimous vote in committee was an adaptation of our contribution to Europe. Is that right? That is an amendment to the proposed adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u204	Collega's, we'll resume the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u205	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (689/3) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (689/3) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u206	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 79 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 134 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (691/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (691/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u207	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (495/8) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (495/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u208	Mr President, I voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u209	That will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u210	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (496/44) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (496/44) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u211	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 116 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 133 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (673/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (673/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u212	Voters 135 Stemmen White or invalid 3 Blank or invalid Valid 132 Geldig Absolute majority 67 Perfect majority Mr Robert Buekenhout received one vote. Mr Robert Buekenhout obtained 1 vote. Mr Raymond Molle received 125 votes. Raymond Molle won 125 votes. Mrs Delphine Piccinno received six votes. Delphine Piccininno won 6 votes. Mr Philippe Quertainmont received 127 votes. Mr Philippe Quertainmont obtained 127 votes. Since Mr Molle received 125 votes, which is the absolute majority, he was appointed French-speaking expert of the Audit Board on electoral expenditure and the accounting of political parties. Mr. Molle, having obtained 125 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, was declared a French-speaking expert of the Commission de contrôle des expenses électorale et de la comptement des parties politiques. Since Mr Quertainmont received 127 votes, which is the absolute majority, he was appointed French-speaking expert of the Audit Board on electoral expenditure and the accounting of political parties. Mr. Quertainmont, having obtained 127 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is declared a French-speaking expert of the Commission de contrôle des expenses électorale et de la comptement des parties politiques.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the final vote, I would like to propose that, in view of the limited number of speakers who signed up for tomorrow's debate on the programme law, not to start at 10 a.m. but at 2 p.m. I would also remind you of the appointment to proceed to the vote at 7 p.m. on the spot. Is everyone okay with that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-18-54-plenair-ip024x.u214	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 136 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (683/6) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (683/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? ) The sitting is closed. Next meeting Friday 19 December 2014 at 2 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Friday, December 19, 2014 at 2:00 p.m.
