ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic032x.u1	Mr President, Minister, when discussing the budget, you said that the digital economy is growing seven times faster than the ordinary economy. Of course, that brings with it risks. In Het Laatste Nieuws of 21 November it was said that a Russian website had hacked security cameras and that those images were streamed on that Russian website. That way, everyone could watch live. These are not high-tech security cameras from large firms, but cameras purchased by individuals or small businesses and quite popular. The images of these cameras can be accessed via an app on the smartphone. It's a kind of hacktivists, who don't use software to crack passwords, but just used standard passwords to hack into the security camera. Such standard passwords can be accessed freely on the internet, whether they are simple passwords such as '12345', 'admin' or a blank field. The British Privacy Watchdog ICO came out with that security leak. ICO immediately linked a sensitization campaign with three basic rules. First of all, always change the default password of a security camera. A good password consists of case and case letters and a number. Secondly, read carefully the manual of a device connected to the Internet. Those who do not use the Internet function will switch them off better. Thirdly, ensure a customized security of all devices connected to the Internet. Be careful and careful when using the cloud. Minister, that incident raised a number of questions for me, which I would like to ask you now. First of all, was CERT.be aware of those violations, of the hacking? Has any contact been made to British colleagues on this matter? Secondly, from his mission CERT.be must inform the public about cybercrime. Will CERT.be organise a similar awareness campaign on this subject, or can we expect other awareness campaigns?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic032x.u2	CERT.be has heard this news through the media and other channels, but CERT.be has not had specific contacts with the British Privacy Watchdog ICO. In general one can say that it is very careless that someone uses a standard password for a camera that has access to his home. That's the equivalent of leaving the key on the outside on the front door. However, the question is: what are we doing about it? You just mentioned the website safeonweb.be. On this site, CERT.be gives tips to consumers to better protect themselves online. There, of course, a lot of importance is attached to using good passwords and changing the standard passwords. The FPS Economy will also develop additional initiatives to make people more aware of how they can better secure themselves on the Internet. You may have heard that I said something last weekend about the sale of illegal drugs. I make the comparison: if one goes to a shop in the physical world in a back street, where there is no name on the wall and where one only offers products that are not in the original packaging, and without a manual, one would say that this is not quite kosher. That reflex should also be found in the online world. Websites without contact information, without a license from a federation, are websites that one should carefully deal with. On the one hand, the government has a responsibility to better inform citizens, on the other hand, it must also take criminal action in the event of a serious breach of legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-03-54-commissie-ic032x.u3	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Citizens, of course, always have a duty to be responsible for themselves first. That's right. The three basic rules listed by the ICO seem quite logical. You yourself referred to it to indicate how dangerous things can be. Nevertheless, it shows that, despite the fact that things are so dangerous, many people do not realize the danger in everyday life. Vigilance remains imperative. I am therefore pleased that the FPS Economy will launch an awareness-raising campaign. I hope that the campaign at the work of British colleagues will be inspired by the fact that I have been told from the contacts I have had over the last few months about cyber security that Britain is the analogue country in cyber security. You yourself pointed out earlier in the explanatory memorandum to your policy paper that the UK was also the guide country for digital by default. I hope that they will also be the example in this area.
