ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u2	The discussion of the Government's statement is resumed. The discussion of the government statement is resumed. I propose that the chapters on Mobility and Public Enterprises be dealt with together. It will largely concern SNCB. I know that SNCB does not cover the whole chapter on Mobility. Since Minister De Croo has come in, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u3	Mr President, it is a good suggestion for you to combine the two issues. Madam Secretary Galant, let me begin with my comments on road safety. I shall be very brief about this in order not to make full use of my speaking time. I thought it was an interesting part of the coalition agreement. In the meantime, I have tabled a text aimed at reducing blind-angle accidents. Everyone in Parliament has a blind spot accident every so many times in their congregation. Even if cooperation is needed with the Regions and certainly also with the municipalities, sensitisation is still perfectly a federal competence. You can make the text into a draft law afterwards. For example, we organize courses in primary school every year to reduce such accidents. The support of your level of policy can certainly help with this. I come now to the comments on SNCB. I must, of course, start with the articles I have read in the newspapers and elsewhere about savings. We can't get out of it. On the one hand, in the coalition agreement, it is said that trains have to run more precisely, debts have to fall, the development of the GEN is accelerated and needs to be dealt with in response to rising demand. Those are logical questions and proposals, I think. But on the other hand, 2.1 billion will be saved. According to the table, cumulatively, 188 million euros will be saved in the first year to 633 million euros in 2019. Now you have to tell me how you will realize all that. I do not know if you know, but the annual amount for SNCB is EUR 1,010 billion today. SNCB today receives more than EUR 1 billion to carry out its task of providing public transport. In addition, it receives some EUR 600 million in income from travellers. Infrabel will receive EUR 2 billion for investment. On a total budget of 3 billion euros, you will save 600 million euros. The coalition agreement states that you consider consultation to be very important. I can also read in the newspaper that Mr Cornu says that he has not seen much of that discussion. He had to read the proposal on savings in the newspaper. If that is true, I would dare to suggest that you delete the word 'consultation' from the coalition agreement. Let me start by talking about savings. I ask you where you will save. Will you save on safety? I'm just looking at colleague Van den Bergh. We have devoted a great deal of attention over a number of years to the issue of safety on the rail network. The N-VA Group did not approve the analyses of the committees of inquiry at the time, because we had not identified any culprits in our report. In our analysis, we indicated that there was not so much a culprit. We believe that there has been underinvestment in infrastructure for years, which has led to a reduction in the level of safety. I am sorry, Mr De Croo, but those underinvestments were actually made in the 1980s when the Minister for Transport said the same thing you now included in your government agreement, namely blind savings. We have all been able to see what that has led to in terms of infrastructure. You repeat that stupid decision to save blind. That certainly has a direct effect on safety. Therefore, do not come here and say that you will not save on safety, because safety will suffer. Who's gonna pay for that? Do the school subscriptions go up? Is that the commute, with which you also affect the employers? Is it the seniors who apparently did it today for this government? I read today that the Go Pass will be abolished. Seniors and young people, but also the ordinary workers, pay the price. I am sorry that Deputy Prime Minister Peeters and group leader Verherstraeten are not here, but actually CD&V has let itself roll here. You can pass on the message. I suppose, Mr Van den Bergh, that you are not so happy with these savings either, but actually CD&V has been caught here by a new party, the Party of the Powerful Flemings. This new PVV inspired this agreement with blind savings. Let us be serious, and let me give you the example of the Go Pass. Do you know how many 16-year-olds there are in the country, Madam Secretary? I looked it up for you: 125 000 young people are 16 today. It is much less, but suppose that 50 % uses the Go Pass. A Go Pass costs 51 euros for 10 journeys today. That would cost a maximum of EUR 2.5 million gross. Yet that is not a cost. I don't know if you know when a 16-year-old takes the train. That is not when people start working, at a time when there is enough capacity on the train. Whether one is transporting air or giving sixteen-year-olds the chance to move and take car wrecks off the track, you choose to take it away from them. I can only observe that you want to put some symbols on your hat without you realizing and calculating what you are doing. You just want to be able to say it's a symbol file. Those who wield the red ballpoint pen with the abolition of the Go Pass have those youngsters well at the hell. I'm sorry about that. I think that's stupid. Why was the free Go Pass introduced at the time? The free Go Pass was introduced to familiarize young people with public transport. Something like that is called a modal shift, perhaps a new term. Let us make a comparison on the basis of an ass bridge. Suppose you want to do something about the mobility infarction around Antwerp, Charleroi or Ghent. With a very simple donkey bridge you can calculate that your measures will increase the mobility infarct. One kilometer of traffic is equivalent to 50 cars. There could be 500 people in a Desiro train set. Go through the equation: one Desiro train set takes away 10 kilometers of traffic. If you want to go from the Kempen to Antwerp in the morning, you lose half an hour to an hour, but the government does not care, it simply deletes. Will you save on the staff? I read an interview with one of the former managers of SNCB, under whose policies punctuality was abominable and debts increased enormously. This big manager is proposing to throw out 5 000 staff. However, I thought the government would provide job creation and employment. It seems, however, that it does not want to know about job creation in public enterprises. You put 5 000 people on the street, Mr Michel. Congratulations! Mr Jambon, a very interesting subject is job creation in the private sector. Infrabel's investment files mainly involve the private sector. If you delete the amount now, Infrabel will no longer have any money to invest. Then shut up about job creation in the private sector, if you don't know anything about it. I come to my point about the offer. Mrs. Galant, there are 3 700 trains a day. On weekends, it's a little less. Which trains do you want to cancel? Will you only install trains on the main lines between the different cities? I was just writing my text and I saw Deputy Prime Minister Peeters sitting there, I'm afraid he won't be able to take the train in Puurs anymore. Mr Van den Bergh is from Kalmthout, I fear. Heist-on-den-Berg, that's what I'm afraid of. Mol, Mr Verherstraeten, will also be deleted. Then explain to me how CD&V will explain that all these trains will be deleted. I'm gonna finish this point. Where else can we delete? In the early and late trains? Yesterday we worked very late. The staff couldn't take the train home. All people working shifts, postmen and others will be obliged to buy a second car to get to work. Again the invoice of your blind government measure is paid by the ordinary worker. How many percent of the 232 million travelers per year will you meet?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u4	Mr Geerts, I agree with you that the amount to be saved is not nothing. It is a very difficult challenge that we face in the coming years. That will not be so obvious, I absolutely agree with that. However, saying here that lines and trains will be removed seems to me to be a bridge too far. In the coming years, there will be a great deal of savings for SNCB, without cutting the offer. I am referring to someone you may know. The day before yesterday, Jean-Pierre Goossens replied to a journalist's question about these savings: Let's be careful and see how this will be translated into the new management contract. It is a wise attitude to look first at how this can be translated into the effective operation of the railways, without raging passengers by saying that their train would be abolished, because that is simply a flat line of reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u5	Mr Van den Bergh, you also received this table last week. Everyone who visited SNCB and Infrabel received that table. I see that the figures are 1 billion. The turnover from activities amounts to 1.1 billion, of which 600 million from tickets. Other commercial revenues amount to 167 million euros. Suppose SNCB had to save EUR 350 million at cruising speed per year on a billion dollars. Why don't you tell me how you're gonna do that without deleting it? That's what I want to know. Mr van den Bergh tells me that I scare people because they will delete. Deleted. Early and late trains will be cancelled. It already is.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u6	You will receive an answer from the Minister, Mr Geerts.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u7	A (...) train to Ostend could help us a long way.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u8	I'm sure you will. That will happen for EUR 300 million. Mr Van den Berg, I come to another subject which is sensitive: the minimum level of service.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u9	Mr Van Hees, you have the floor, but know that it is extra time. You've exceeded your speaking time, but I'll give you a little extra.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u10	But I haven't spoken so much, Mr. President. Besides, I don't remember concluding anything with you!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u11	Be brief!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u12	Mr President, I wanted to respond to Mr. Van den Bergh, who said there would be no line deletion. Already next December, some of them will be abolished. The last two trains on the line I'm using are deleted! The SNCB is caught up because of your government agreement. On the one hand, the financing of SNCB is reduced by two billion, and on the other hand, liberalisation is introduced to the maximum. There is also a question of reducing infrastructure charges. This means that companies are allowed to enter the market to compete with SNCB. It is not surprising that today we decide to tackle the right to strike of railway workers by imposing the minimum service, because they will necessarily react. There will also be reactions among travellers, who will be the turkeys of the farce since they will have to pay more. That's why you're extending tariff freedom. Everyone is going to lose, apart from a few private companies that will be able to enter the rail market.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I come to my second theme, namely minimum service provision. Those who take the train from time to time can already see today that it is very often a minimum service. If they still want to be removed from that offer, then I ask myself questions. Minimum service is once again a symbol file. We have talked about this on several occasions and during every legislative period in this House. We have organised hearings and asked for benchmarks from other countries to check whether such a minimum service does work. I've read another free gallery of ACV-Public Services. Until recently, Mr Verherstraeten was a member of that organisation, but he probably hasn't read it anymore. ACV-Public Services clearly states that minimum service provision in the public sector is an illusion. Madam Minister, I wonder how you will organise this minimum service. Will this be done by means of the Bacquelaine Bill, which reduces the amounts of the various public enterprises when there is a strike and which does not provide minimum service if one exists? Or would you like to go one step further and use the bill that was tabled at the time by the N-VA Group, by Mr Vandeput, which even referred to the Criminal Code? Can you explain that to me? In substance, we have already debated this very much in this House, we have asked many questions about it to Minister Vervotte at the time, I do not think any sp.a-minister, and Minister Vervotte stated at that time, supported by the entire CD&V Group, that it is not working. Now this CD&V group supports this. I can understand a lot, but I don't understand this at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this minimum service, I have some sympathy with your position. You are talking about the right to strike, and I know that, in your opinion, the right to strike is sacred and should not be undermined, and I have no problem with that. But what do you do with the right to work? I'd like to know, how does that fit in with your vision? That people want to strike, I can understand. I can also understand why you are asking the Minister how she intends to implement that right of strike. However, you yourself must answer the following question. What do you do with the rights of the willing, of those who want to work and who are boycotted by those who want to strike? How do you solve that? Give me an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u15	Mr President, I would like to interrupt briefly because Mr Geerts refers to our party. He also refers to what Minister Vervotte did at the time. It has started the search for a way in which the traveller would be less affected by wild and announced strikes. In consultation, a protocol was concluded to prevent and avoid wild strikes as much as possible. In recent years, however, we have unfortunately to note that the number of strikes is increasing again. It should also be noted that strikes with a participation rate of about 12% to 15% cripple the entire rail network. In this case, we need to consider the situation, think about the traveller first and examine, in consultation and with respect for the right to strike, how we can find solutions for the traveller.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u16	Mr President, Mr Van den Bergh, I believe that you want to defend the right to strike. I don't doubt that. It is true that at some point, when the protocol was not evaluated, some five or six people took wild action. That is why, in committee and here in the gallery, I called for the protocol to be renewed and reviewed so that it could be reinstated. This was done in 2012. The table of the number of syndicated actions shows that they have been drastically reduced. One of my conditions in the protocol was that prior notice of strike should be given by the workers' organizations so that the employer was obliged to sit around the table and talk in the national joint committee about how the problems would be dealt with. We have done so again. The protocol was ratified in the National Joint Committee. So the solution is there. The minimum service is therefore a symbol file. Mr Degroote, I come to you now. With your statement, you just proved that you know nothing about a minimum service. You claim to be against the erosion of the right to strike. In your view, I understand that. I don't have a problem with that. I am absolutely opposed, but I give you the right to oppose it. You ask what we will do with the workers. My question is how you will organise the track. How do you deal with safety within a train chain? Suppose there are too few employees in a particular depot, how will you organise it? Will you leave a train somewhere in East Flanders on the field? Who will determine where the train will be imposed? Who's gonna decide which people get on the train? Stop talking about symbols if you don't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u17	What do you do with people willing to work in general? You can't answer that. Those technical matters of that train, that is, secondly, but first there is the principle that there are strikers and workers. This applies to all sectors, not just the railways. There must be an answer to that and only then will the technical aspects be dealt with. You cannot answer the question of what you are doing with the rights of the unemployed, and that proves that you do not want to see this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u18	(...) you know that if an action has been taken, it is possible to work with SNCB, but it is only about a minimum service. As it says here, you want to put the plume on your hat that will create property security. The majority parties that approve this will be responsible for creating unsafe situations when people are waiting for a train and can't get on it. You can't organize that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u19	I think we should not lose sight of the bigger picture. I would just like to refer to my speech yesterday, where I look in principle at your group as a party that likes social dialogue and in any case uses a language that is different from that of Mr Degroote. According to Mr Degroote, technical matters will be dealt with later, but it is about the symbol, about the dogma. Now, as a member of Christian democracy, the middle party, you know that the right to strike is very sensitive and is a fundamental right of workers. If I distance myself from this particular dossier, I can see that Mr Peeters's outstretched hand to the social partners is actually a false hand put out, a wage standard, a number of socio-economic dossiers, and so on. Hence yesterday's plea, Mr Van den Bergh, and I am addressing your group in particular to make real investments in this area and to keep Mr De Groote's language far away. Please do so or you will be given a series of social actions in all sectors, of which no one is getting better. I ask you, because I know that the other three coalition partners do not even have that sensitivity.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u20	Mr Geerts, I'm a little confused by your discourse. The right to strike is an internationally recognised right and no one in our coalition disputes that. However, any right must be applied in a reasonable, proportionate manner in the legal order. If one comes to the situation where a public undertaking with 15% of its employees, strikers, can shut down the whole network and therefore make the work impossible for all the employees, then there is a problem. The only answer this coalition wants to offer is a minimum service in which a limited number of people can ensure a service and allow those who want to work to work. We do not go against the right to strike, we want to guarantee the willingness to work. One of the blames for this coalition is that a number of measures in the federal government agreement were not discussed with the social partners. Here it is about the intention to ensure a minimum service. I do not think it is up to Parliament to unilaterally decide on a minimum service, but to do so precisely for the social partners. That is what we say and no more than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u21	Mr Lachaert, you say that this belongs to the social partners. The social partners have been saying in this House for ten years that minimum services do not work. You are imposing this unilaterally. I do not want to lose my speaking time, but I would like you to explain to me how you see this minimum service working. I'll move on to the third part. What agenda is behind this, Mr Dewael? I will tell you: the liberalisation of the railways. And from Open Vld, the MR and the N-VA, I can understand that. You don't want a public service to function. You want to withdraw the funds in such a way that you can say afterwards that the public sector is not functioning so that we can liberalise. Pure liberalisation, that's what you want. This is an intention process based on the figures. Liberalisation, that is the real agenda of the mediated party. Something created for the workman must be abolished. Mr Van den Bergh, I apologize again for addressing the CD&V, but I really cannot understand why this party is taking part in a scenario where the right-wing parties are actually going for blind liberalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u22	Mr Geerts, we are not just for the mediators, we are for the modal citizen, the consumer, the traveller. You say it doesn't work, but you're preventing all possible bodies from seeing it in effect. Let me give you an example. In prisons, we have been calling for a minimum service for years. They refuse to introduce it or apply it. They won't even give us the opportunity to try. Then say it doesn't work, I won't stand for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u23	Mr Degroote, if you stand up for the working man in this way, I wonder how the working man, who does not have a car, with all your savings and, among other things, with the increase in subscriptions, will still be able to get to work. I am not just talking about SNCB, because your party does nothing in the Flemish government but save money on De Lijn. I can assure you that because of your savings in the port area of Ghent, where there is a lot of employment, there will no longer be public transport, so that the working people, with whom you seem so concerned, will no longer be able to get to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u24	Mr President, I will close the chapter on SNCB. I just note, Mr Degroote, that you compare the travelers with prisoners. The equations don't stop. I insist that the party of the mediators in this dossier has taken the working people, the students and the elderly by the nose.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u25	Mr Geerts, you just mentioned the modal shift. We know that a stable framework must be created to ensure that people can rely on services. Mrs Temmerman talked about the need for working people to come to work. If we are talking about a guaranteed service, it is primarily to ensure that people get to work. We want to introduce this in order to ensure that we are all better off. What's against that? Why do you not want the workers to be able to use public transport in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u26	Mr President, I have a question to ask Mrs Temmerman. Mrs Temmerman, if you no longer see the bus driving to that port site, then that will have nothing to do with the new round of savings, but perhaps the reason should be sought from the previous Flemish government. You can guess three times who was part of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u27	The previous Flemish coalition agreement removed the savings there. As a result, there is no train in the port area and the van that drove to it was also abolished. Your government did.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u28	Mr Wollants, your plea to make it possible for the willing to achieve their work in a quality and pleasant way sounds like music to my ears. However, if that comes from the mouth of a Member of Parliament who is about to support a government that approves EUR 2.1 billion in savings on SNCB, if that comes from the mouth of a Member of Parliament whom Mrs Temmerman rightly says he belongs to a party that cuts basic mobility in Flemish government, the mobility of people at De Lijn, then that plea that you have made to get people to work is not credible. The argument of this coalition that it stands up for the working man is not credible tout court. That is the point we made yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u29	Mr Wollants, you have asked me a question and the courtesy commands me to answer it. With a reduction in the amount of 2.1 billion, you are going to organise a minimum daily service. I shall devote the two minutes I have left to the other public undertakings. Mr De Croo, you say that you want to make efforts on accessibility and you referred to the Internet, where you want to close the digital divide. This is, of course, in stark contrast to the accessibility of public transport, which you are reducing by EUR 2.2 billion. Public transport must therefore obviously not be made accessible, as there will be considerable savings. You are also talking about a different model of participation for public companies. For your information, I would like to know what you mean by a different model of participation in public companies. I think it is very positive that CEOs should come to Parliament once a year to explain themselves. I didn't find it or I missed it, but I don't see anything about the CEO's salary. There is nothing in it about the variable part of wages, but I do not read anything about the reduction of wages, as was done under the previous legislature. Do you stick to that, or will it become freedom, happiness? Furthermore, I am afraid that you are not talking about a social level playing field in the section on the postal sector. One of the most essential things in the liberalisation of postal services, as Mr Van Quickenborne can testify as then competent minister, was the social level playing field. If this is not used in the postal sector, a functioning public sector will be turned upside down today's bpost tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the point that concerns us concerns SNCB and rail mobility. As soon as she had been sworn in, the minister immediately announced no less than 2.1 billion savings that the SNCB-Infrabel Group will have to achieve between 2015 and 2019. No explanation as to where these savings will be made. At the level of operation, investments, postponement of the timetable? These savings are cause for concern because: 1. the group is not currently in full financial health. This will not improve if cuts are to be made; 2. investments are necessary, in particular to ensure security - I would remind you that security was the first priority of the Infrabel Group - and to maintain the network in condition; 3. which says savings always says risk for rural areas, always on the saddle. Rural areas are affected by these risks as they are the first to be affected. It would therefore be more than useful to obtain details and figures to understand the distribution of these savings. It is absolutely essential to maintain a public service that fulfils its first mission, namely the coverage of the network as a whole in a fair and accessible manner for all. It is essential for both commuters and rail personnel that the SNCB Group provide quality services that are not braced and sacrificed in favour of a balanced budget. The fact that you stated in the agreement that the transport plan will be demand-driven to define the priorities of the multi-year plan is already an infringement of the preservation of the lines located in rural areas. As regards the very functioning of SNCB, it is stipulated in the government agreement that an integrated approach to public transport will be sought in cooperation with regional transport companies. We are of course in favour of an increased intermodality which allows commuters to move more easily by using several public transports in a successive way. On the other hand, we are much less in favour of replacing national transport with regional public transport, thus returning the hot potato to the Regions. This would result in fewer offers for commuters, especially in rural areas where rail is often the only public means of travel. The questions therefore remain intact as regards the total preservation of the SNCB Group's public service mission, the guarantee of national coverage with particular attention for rural areas where the train is a primary means of transport and the distribution of financial resources in view of the announced savings of more than 2 billion. The question of the RER: a few lines concern RER and mobility around Brussels. Once again, we do not read anything specific or concrete. This is a catalogue of good intentions: no date is fixed, no practical modalities are defined. So what are the minister's solutions to speed up the work and complete completion of this RER, more than expected by all commuters travelling to the capital every morning? Rather than dreaming of the implementation of RER in Antwerp, Ghent, Liège or Charleroi, as written in the agreement, for which we should first explain where to find the budgets to finance them, we may have to concentrate first on the RER under construction and finalise it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u31	Mr. Chairman, I would like to take advantage of Ms.Poncelet's intervention to reassure her of the government's and the minister's priority of investing in security. I would add that the minister's priority is clearly not the same for the Walloon government: he has decided to disinvest in airport security by reducing subsidies by 15%. The federal government, thanks to the renegotiation of the cooperation agreement with Belgocontrol, will be able to compensate for this disinvestment and disinterest. I wanted to express to you the importance that the federal government intends to attach to security. This clarification seemed important to me to reassure Mr. Geerts and especially the cdH group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the difficult times we have had in recent days, I think we will find more serenity about mobility. Indeed, I believe that our function as representative of the people is to feel the concerns of this people. In this sense, I believe that mobility is a consensus today. This is a real priority for the people of our country. Belgium has long been at the forefront in this field. Remember that it was at the initiative of our sovereign, Leopold I, widowed by an heiress princess from England, where the first railway was installed, that Belgium was the first country, after England, to have a railway network. Unfortunately, we are no longer the precursors in this area. For the first time, this government has appointed a true Minister in charge of Mobility and not a Secretary of State. That's very positive. The fact that she is a particularly dynamic and voluntary woman as is Jacqueline Galant is a very positive sign as well. Mobility in all its forms is at the heart of our freedoms, whether to travel, to transport goods or simply to the workplace. Effective mobility will enable us to meet the important challenges ahead, including multimodal and greener mobility. Exchanges will then be more fluid and will offer new opportunities for development. The Government is also committed to strengthening road safety. We know that this is also a priority for our fellow citizens, especially for the weakest users. This objective is obviously quite ambitious: to reduce the number of serious injuries on our roads by half. We know that an effort has already been made, which has already led to a considerable reduction in the number of deaths, and that is so much better. The new Minister of Mobility will therefore tackle dangerous behaviour by intensifying controls – we know that she has good contacts with the police and the Ministry of the Interior – and by punishing repeat offenders more severely. One important point, which seems surprisingly controversial, is that this government has finally heard the call of the commuters so far largely ignored. It was time to ensure that public transport users could access their workplace every day. The solution will be to put in place a guaranteed service for the railways, for a fairer, safer mobility, in the image of an efficient and responsible public service. Finally, this government will also have to deal with the famous and delicate issue of air mobility, which has not been dealt with very well in recent weeks. First of all, of course, the overflight of Brussels. It is our responsibility to achieve a plan that respects the tranquillity and security of citizens. Brussels is one of the few capitals in the world, perhaps with Mexico City, to be flown by planes. The first step in this direction, the Prime Minister has already taken it by obtaining a moratorium, while his predecessors seem to have had inertia.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u33	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak here about air flights. You know I live in Kraainem. In my municipality as well as in neighbouring Wezembeek, we have very motivated MR agents to get involved with our communes in the matter of air flights. It is very good to give instructions to implement the moratorium. And then what? Then what are you going to do, Minister? That is my essential question tonight and I would really like to have a concrete answer, because we are very worried. In our region, we also have all landings on 01 and it is absolutely unbearable. As I concede that the flights are unbearable for the Brussels. Far from me saying, "Nothing to one, and anything to another." But the solutions must be absolutely found for everyone to find themselves there.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u34	Thank you, Mrs Caprasse, the minister has heard you. I was going to talk about it later, but you've preceded me. On the broad lines of the government agreement, I find the sustainable mobility component important. The citizen is finally at the centre of a new policy, notably through the development of co-modality. The aim is to create and promote a genuine mobility chain within which the means of transport will easily complement each other. This obviously implies a real dialogue with the Regions. I have no doubt that the Minister will be able to speak with her regional counterparts to this end. This also implies a greener fleet. This requires greener vehicles and hybrid electric cars – and I will return to them if necessary through questions – to be more purchased by the public services. I remember that in his time the Secretary of State for Mobility, a certain Paul Magnette, had committed himself to it. I don't think there have been many results since then, but the will has been expressed. Then I congratulated him. Measures will also be taken to install intelligent transport systems, which are the applications of new information and communication technologies in the field of transport. These – perhaps the minister will talk about them – aim to optimize the use of infrastructure, means of transport, but also improvements in road safety. Similarly, the necessary legal framework for the introduction of these innovations will have to be prepared. The aspect that seems essential to me is that of greater road safety. As I said earlier, efforts have already been made in terms of road safety. There are many fewer deaths. Unfortunately, much remains to be done. I mentioned it before for the serious wounded. In addition, road safety is not the sole responsibility of the federal government. This is an area which is also the responsibility of the Regions. There, we can have great fears. Indeed, when we see that, in a region that I will not mention, a Road Plan is postponed to 2016-17 and that until then nothing will be done on regional roads – motorways and ex-nationals – there is reason to be concerned. A dialogue with the Regions will therefore be necessary. I turn to Mr Delperee's party so that we can move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u35	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u36	All right, you introduce yourself. In this context, we must obviously work hand in hand with the Regions. It must also be noted – at this level, I am beating my coulpe as Wallon and Francophone – that, unlike our Dutch-speaking friends, the use of bicycles by Francophones to get to work is still far too weak. It should be noted that only 9% of workers use bicycles. Therefore, an incentive policy will have to be adopted in this area, paying particular attention to users in weak positions such as cyclists. In addition, police controls will also need to be stepped up in order to effectively combat dangerous behaviour such as aggressive driving, excessive speed, alcohol and drugs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u37	I invite you to finish, Mr. Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u38	Of course, speed controls will have to continue to increase. I will not dwell on the matter. Perhaps the minister will have the opportunity to refer to it. That said, we must not forget the railway which is extremely important. Unfortunately, at this level, unwanted reductions have been made in absolute terms. But as Mrs Galant says on the radio this noon, every company must participate in debt reduction. In this context, users and customers must be placed at the heart of the new management policy. In particular, there is a need to improve access to the service for people with reduced mobility. Punctuality needs to be improved. It should be noted here that, at times, a quarter of an hour before the intended arrival of the train, users are warned that the train to be taken by them has been removed. This is unacceptable in terms of the credibility of rail transport. Particular attention should also be paid to all stations. Of course, I don't think here about the Pharaohic stations that everyone knows.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u39	Your time has expired, Mr. Flahaux. I'll allow you to say one more sentence. (Interruption by Ms. Onkelinx)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u40	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Onkelinx, who pleads in my favour. With regard to the overflight plan, the moratorium is an important point.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u41	I'm cutting off the microphone, Mr. Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I know that there are many blue fans of SNCB in the Chamber, and I would like to focus on SNCB's dossier in particular for them today. One of the most striking savings that the government is proposing to Parliament for the next five years is undoubtedly the hard and very heavy savings on rail. We are talking about 2.1 billion in this legislature. The table shows that a total of 8 billion in savings is being made. To this end, SNCB and Infrabel must contribute 2.1 billion, or 25% of all savings. This makes the government a very clear choice, and that is absolutely not our choice. The coalition agreement did not mention the figures, but we do have them at our disposal and they are very tough. The challenges at the track are enormous. Madam Secretary, those are not my words. It's like this in the coalition agreement. It lists what the government expects of SNCB and Infrabel over the next five years. Please read what the government is expecting. The government expects SNCB to respond to the rising demand. That is right, because studies by the Planning Bureau calculate that the number of rail passengers will increase by 45% by 2030, so almost half will be added. What if that's not a real challenge? However, this also means investing in equipment, in lines, in maintenance and in qualified personnel. The government is also asking for debt stabilization, because debt has increased enormously in recent years, and that has to be stopped. However, if asked to stabilise and even reduce debt, it will require resources or savings to be sought in the company. The demand for better punctuality is also justified, because in recent years we have broken almost all the records with SNCB. Greater attention is also being paid to the needs of less mobile people. This is very important, because many stations are hardly accessible to people who are less mobile. However, this again requires investment, budgets and staff to provide guidance. The government also requests that the operation of the GEN in Brussels be accelerated. That is right again, but there is also a price tag on the other side. The operation will not be profitable at the beginning of the operation. The government also calls in very vague terms for attention to be paid to the north-south link. That's why a lot of plans are circulating, one more expensive than the other. Madam Minister, you are actually one of the most ambitious women ministers in the government when I read what you must do under the government agreement. However, you have a problem: you have no money. You have no money, Madam Secretary. You're nodding in agreement. You have the most beautiful and ambitious task of all ministers, but you have not received any money. Where will you get the money? You want to find it in the abolition of the Go Pass for 16-year-olds, which yields 1.9 million. It's sad that you have to look for the money there, but you won't make it, Madam Secretary. I have a tip for you: there's a Thalys going from Ostend to Brussels. Perhaps its abolition is a better alternative than the abolition of the Go Pass. It may sound a little weird, but by giving 16-year-olds a free Go Pass, you invite them to get acquainted with the track. That's a good instrument. If we can convince young people that the train is a very good means of transport, we will perhaps attract future customers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u43	Mr Van Hecke, I have a little clarification for you. The text of the coalition agreement was based on the philosophy that, according to the 1991 law, we will also make autonomous public companies operating as autonomous public enterprises, which you know well enough. One of the elements in this is a commercial pricing policy. The government gives the company the freedom to develop its own commercial pricing policy. Of course, certain agreements will be made through the management agreements, but the CEO will be given greater freedom to develop a tariff policy and a commercial policy. In this sense, SNCB could decide to take a special action for 16-year-olds. However, leave the company the freedom to decide for itself. It is a short while ago to make all kinds of assumptions about this today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u44	Mr Van den Bergh, I just got there. We do not know how the distribution will take place, but it will force Infrabel and SNCB to save 1.2 billion and to make the possibilities available. That's how the government moves the hot potato. I had a problem with the way the new CEO was appointed, but I have to admit that Mr Cornu is doing well. I think he's doing well. But now he's getting a very poisoned gift. We put him on to put the company back on track. We decide which objectives to pursue, but now we also say that he gets 2.1 billion less. For example, we propose to the company an almost impossible assignment. What are the choices? We all know them. In other words, SNCB will have to raise its rates. It may be selective, but it may choose to raise certain rates in order to raise revenue. For whom will the rates increase? For the young, for the elderly, for the subscribers? Politics should ensure that more people use the train and leave the car at home. That's our philosophy, isn't it? There are also parties that are for commercial vehicles. It's a little harder there. In short, the first option is to increase prices. A second option is to save on staff. However, it is said that staff will not be affected. Mr Descheemaecker says that there are 5 000 people who can leave, but that is not in your coalition agreement. The government says she won't touch the staff. A third option is to save on exploitation. Then what's it about? Then we are talking about an exercise that has already been done in the past, in particular to see whether a number of lines can be deleted. In the coalition agreement, sometimes a nice concept emerges, namely demand-driven policies. How are we supposed to interpret that? Does that mean that if there are only 50 people on a particular line at 6 a.m. on the train, that line will be abolished? Is that what one's gonna do? Will the standard be set at 50 passengers, 75 or 100? How many people will be eliminated and how many people will be in trouble to go to work in the morning or to return to work in the evening because they work in shifts? A fourth option is to save on investment. One can also choose to cut sharply in that. But it is said immediately that we do not want to save on safety. I do not think this would be wise either. What's left? Pruning in the purchase of new material while 45% more passengers are expected by 2030? Pruning in new lines or in structural maintenance of certain lines? This has already been greatly saved, with all the consequences. In other words, the choices made will have a direct impact on the provision of services to citizens. Madam Secretary, I would like to know from you what the government really is up to. We know the amount of savings, how will this be split between SNCB and Infrabel? Does the government want to cut down the service? If that's the case, say it. Will lines have to be abolished? If that's what you want, say it. If the government wants ticket prices and subscriptions to rise, say so. Would you like to abolish the Go Pass? Apparently so, and with this I am on the same page as Mr Geerts. Do we want to move towards liberalisation as quickly as possible? The texts make it very clear that the company must get ready for liberalisation very quickly. If this liberalisation is a fact, add that the next step towards privatisation will be taken very quickly, once again with a reduction in services. Just a little question, by the way. It was about offering, but when it comes to staffing, a lot has already been said about pensions. Will there be any change in train drivers' pensions? This is something that shows up regularly. I have not read anything about this in the coalition agreement and I would like to hear your plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u45	Mr President, I apologise, but there is so much said that I have to respond occasionally. With regard to liberalisation, the text clearly states that SNCB must be prepared for the moment when the European framework for liberalisation is clear. That is a very clear definition. If we did not put that into practice, it would be extremely shortsighted. That could even mean the end of SNCB in the long term, which is the last thing we want.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u46	Mr Van den Bergh, I would much prefer that the text should read: "Belgium will do everything it can to avoid the liberalisation of passenger transport services at European level. I would have preferred that much more. That is the real debate, but it will have to be held at European level. I shall close, fellow Members. One thing is clear: this government has not given the right answer to the growing traffic problems. If we want to tackle them, we really need to invest in the rail sector in the years to come. The answer given by this government is a reduction of the track. In fact, people are told: "Don't choose the train, drive the train as little as possible, we are lucky. That is the message given today by this government to the hundreds of thousands of passengers who use the train every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u47	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all to the attention of Mr. From Croo, as far as public companies are concerned, it must be noted that until the apparently scheduled sale of Belgacom and bpost, your ambitions are very meagre, when they are not worrying or fuzzy. On reading the measures outlined, we identified three categories. The first category is that of concrete measures, but which already exist, for example the announcement of an end to alleged interference in business and strategic decisions, or the limitation of the responsibility of the minister responsible for monitoring compliance with the law and monitoring of the management contract. You are doing nothing but respecting and paraphrasing the current law. As for the principle of good governance and the selection of the members of the steering committee, you only recall the principles already enshrined in reality by your predecessors. You who want to reduce the consumption of paper in administrations at all costs, here are a few useless pages, whose forests could certainly have happened! I come to the second category: the concrete measures initiated or proposed by the Socialist Party. I am thinking of variable remuneration, linked to public service objectives, the creation of a business centre within the Federal Investment and Participation Corporation, the more transparent reform of the structure of the SNCB, the administrator's charter or the appointment of CEOs. On this point, I would point out that the procedure that you are proposing is exactly the one that was followed under the responsibility of a socialist minister for the appointment of the new CEOs of bpost and Belgacom. I am glad that we share this vision. I am pleased to see that you have made this procedure a best practice. Ladies and gentlemen, we had to wait until we were in the opposition to see some of our former partners lift their opposition to our proposals. Some would see it as a sad political game, but I am a resolutely positive and optimistic being. I prefer to see it as a tribute to Messrs. Magnette and Labelle. I thank you for them. Then comes the third category, that of vague and disturbing proposals. The announcement of an alleged modernization of the universal service is the perfect example. The principle of transparency, already called into question yesterday, but to which you claim to hold, is inevitably meaningless if it is not followed by clear measures, especially when it is a principle that guarantees access for all to the basic services of our society. By modernising universal service in a liberal logic that you fully claim, can one really believe that it will come out strengthened? Ladies and gentlemen, isn't asking the question a bit of an answer already? But the true will of the Michel-De Wever government must be read through an ideological conception of our society, that only the market would be able to meet the demands of the general interest. It is with this logic that, without thinking of the general interest, this government wishes, as a first step, to subject public undertakings to market and competition rules alone and, in a second step, to sell them. It will therefore be a purely ideological decision to weaken the state which, moreover, will also appeal to those of the government who want to see the big national symbols disappear. In doing so, your suicide government will not only deprive the state of its means of correcting the drifts of liberalism, but will also prevent it from carrying out any ambitious new policy in these sectors. If this government does not quickly find a minimum of reason, this ideological blindness will seriously harm the public interest. Before you decide whether or not to sell public enterprises one by one, allow me, minister, to ask you some essential questions to enable you to get out of this logic. Is greater liberalisation really in the interests of citizens? What will be the impact of these privatizations on universal service and the social climate for employees of these companies? Finally, will the short-term benefit your government hopes will truly compensate for the long-term impoverishment of the state? Colleagues, through its ultra-liberal vision of public companies, the government is part of the general philosophy of its agreement. It proposes a levelling down of public services rendered to the population without any positive consideration for the citizens and it casts deep concern among the thousands of workers in these public enterprises. Let us now come to the SNCB, Madam Minister, Mrs Galant, a single figure: EUR 2 000 128 000 in savings. This is the substantive marrow, the heart of your ambition for SNCB! Minister, I listened carefully to you this morning on the radio. To hear you, it's a little Jacqueline in Wonderland! You compress the budget of the SNCB Caesar way but you promise that this will not affect the quality of the service offered to the citizens, or even the working conditions of the railway workers. More than 2 billion savings! I'm going to say it in old francs because you don't seem to realize it. What your government is asking you today is to save 80 billion Belgian francs! Of two things one, either you lie to the population, or you are the queen of magicians or you do not yet know the truth of the decisions made. I heard your miracle solution this morning on the radio: to remove free transportation for parliamentarians and journalists. That's very good! With this measure, we immediately found 80 billion Belgian francs! Now!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u48	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u49	I also heard Mrs Galant this morning who, after being appointed minister, obtained a completely degraded budget. It has found the miracle solution, which, moreover, involves a reform of the Constitution, which would deprive parliamentarians of the pass on the railways. I assume that she conducted a poll in the Liberal Group and found that this measure was not going to be very damaging.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u50	You must know that and you see it in the irony of colleagues, these measures represent only a drop of water in the ocean...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u51	Unlike Mr Cheron, I can say that there are many of us among the reform parliamentarians who take the train every day!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u52	Colleagues, after parliamentarians, journalists; very well! There is also mention of the abolition of the Go Pass for young people under 16 years of age. You must know, minister, that these measures represent only a drop of water in the ocean of the savings you promise us. Today, there is no longer a question of kicking in touch, of not responding clearly to the legitimate questions of parliamentarians. We expect clear and precise answers on how you will achieve these savings. Today, in Parliament, despite the two billion savings, as you said this morning on the radio, guarantee to users and workers: - improving the supply, service to travellers and punctuality? - the maintenance of investments in rail safety? - maintenance and maintenance of lines C, i.e. the actual use of the secondary network? - quality working conditions for all railway workers? - a durable solution for the Nord-Midi junction, the keystone of the network? - modernization and expansion of network capacity? - the rapid and effective implementation of the operation of the ER? We will no longer accept the incessant postponements, the Brussels and the commuters have indeed waited enough. We also ask you to guarantee the development of rail freight. Do you guarantee all this? And most importantly, how? How do you intend to guarantee these essential investments for the future of rail? The PS is convinced that by making debt reduction the central focus of your rail policy, you are clearly reshaping the contours of SNCB's missions. With you, it will actually be fewer trains, fewer stations served, fewer local services, fewer investments, and therefore less public service! But at a much higher price for users. It's already very clear today! It will be the abandonment of the secondary network, the abandonment of the lines, in your eyes unprofitable, but yet so essential for sustainable mobility of course, but also, and above all, for the mobility of all. Finally, at SNCB, Mr.Jamar, it was a budget minister that we needed. Your willingness to establish an integrated public transport offer is also unduplicating. This is only another way to save money by postponing SNCB's public service missions on the backs of regional transport companies. As for your desire to impose a minimum service at all costs, you know our fundamental difference of appreciation in this matter. In addition to a drastic reduction in service, citizens will also have to go to the cash register: in fact, you will introduce greater tariff freedom, such as in aircraft, hotels or high-speed trains. The Socialist Party, Madam Minister, will be extremely attentive to the fate of SNCB and its core public service tasks. Be sure that neither travellers nor workers will satisfy themselves with a simple accounting vision for a sector as strategic as mobility and, in particular, the railway. Mr President, thank you for the few seconds of rabiet you have given me. I know that Mrs Lalieux wanted to talk about the overflight of Brussels. As you have given me, she will pass her turn. Colleagues, thank you. Mrs. Galant, see you soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u53	Mr President, to hear the end of Mr Devin's presentation, I had the impression that he was rather taking stock of the wonderful railway policy of Ministers Magnette and Labelle.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer all the questions that have been put to me. For Mr Geerts, who asked me about the blind spot, this seems to me a very good idea. I think we should come back to committee to study this proposal. Especially since, in the government agreement, priority will be given to a 50% reduction in the number of deaths by 2020 compared to 2010. In addition, controls on blood alcohol and drugs will be stepped up. I will therefore contact my colleague from the Interior very soon for their practical organisation. Let's go to the SNCB budget. Indeed, the SNCB Group should save EUR 2.1 billion over the next few years, with Horizon 2019. What is important here is that neither safety nor staff will be affected by these savings. I think everyone will have to save money. When you have a debt of more than $4 billion, if you compare it to a household, where spending is higher than revenue, at some point you have to take action. I repeat in French: safety will remain a priority. I'm from the Mons area. Following the Buizingen disaster, there were many casualties in my area. I can tell you that security will really be a priority. The staff will obviously be saved. There will be no dismissal. It's not like in the Walloon Region where we'll replace only one in five civil servants. Everyone will make efforts, even the top management, whose salary will be linked to quality indicators. Tomorrow morning, I meet Infrabel; tomorrow afternoon, I meet SNCB. In consultation with trade union organisations, I will ask them to think about economic measures. [[Brouhahaha]] Reread the agreement, the proposals. Infrabel and SNCB receive staffing and they will need to make better use of it. The abolition of the free Go Pass for sixteen-year-olds will be the subject of further consultations. It is appropriate to seek other solutions to encourage young people to take the train. It is important to know that today every young person receives a Go Pass at the age of sixteen. The results in terms of the use of trains by young people are not convincing. It is therefore important to find alternative solutions so that they are more attracted to the use of public transport. As regards the continuity of the public service and the question of minimum service, some are either in bad faith or they have a problem of understanding French or Dutch. In 2013, SNCB registered 18 strike movements, including two spontaneous actions that were not covered by notice. These strikes have taken millions of workers, students and patients hostage to their workplaces, schools or hospitals. Without calling into question the right to strike, I will say that this agreement is historic! As the MR has been proposing for several years, there is a memorandum of understanding to prevent wild strikes, which take millions of commuters hostage. It is therefore a matter of no longer tolerating them and providing for sanctions. One step had already been taken under Di Rupo, I admit. The Government also asks the two public railway undertakings to formulate, in consultation with the social partners, a proposal to provide a guaranteed service in the event of a strike. If no agreement has been reached within a reasonable period of time, the government will itself take a legislative initiative. In addition, on strike days, the transport plan will be communicated by SNCB to its users, in particular via its website. As far as the ER is concerned, we maintain the pace set out in the current transport plan decided by the PS and the CDH. This government will be even more ambitious. As a result, the implementation of the ER will be accelerated in future SNCB transport plans. The agreement says: "Completion work will be carried out as soon as possible". How can we be more ambitious? With regard to the overflight of Brussels,...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u55	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u56	Mrs Fonck, I think you're in a bad position to think about the lack of work done while you were Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u57	Mr President, dear Mrs Galant, it is true that in the three months during which I was able to take on the day-to-day business, I did nothing for SNCB! For the simple reason that I was not competent in this matter! That being said, I understand you didn't know because while I was working, you were probably on vacation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u58	Mrs Fonck, this has fallen very badly because I never take a holiday! It's really bad to know me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u59	With regard to the overflight of Brussels, I recall that there is an order of 31 July 2014; a decision could be taken since that date! Nothing has been done! In the government agreement, there is a moratorium to return to the situation before February 6, 2014.This morning, I met Belgocontrol. Next week, I meet with the various associations that defend citizens. I expect a legal analysis this Monday morning and as soon as I have the last analysis, we will make a decision and respect the government agreement. To reply to Mr. Van Hecke, I have already said it in French, but I will repeat it in Dutch. We are indeed going to have to do less, but we are going to make better use of resources with clear priorities. Finally, to conclude with Mr Devin, the cartoons are usual with him! I don't even turn around when he talks about me. I've already been caricatured in all the sauces. I repeat: all departments must save money. My goal is to improve the timeliness and quality of service to SNCB clients. But, in parallel with a customer orientation, we must continue the financial consolidation of SNCB and Infrabel, which was started under the previous government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u60	Madam Minister, I have questions about the overflight of Brussels. There is a government, with three French-speaking parties and three Dutch-speaking parties that have reached an agreement; it is called the Brussels government. I said it was almost an insult to the N-VA but it exists. This Brussels government proposes a lasting and balanced solution. Minister, you know that the moratorium can only be a transitional solution. This is not a sustainable and balanced solution for the Brussels people! The CD&V and the Open Vld are in this Brussels government. We simply call, in consultation with the other levels of power, for new roads to be determined on the basis of densely populated areas, aviation safety, the establishment of an independent monitoring body, objective and transparent procedures, and for nighttime changes to take place from 10 p.m. to 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u61	Madam Minister, I have said that I have done nothing about the issue of the overflight of Brussels. You have been in place for a week and every time you express yourself in the media, you enjoy typing with delight on your predecessors. I will not tell you what I think, I have no doubt that we will be able to discuss this in a few weeks' time. The order was issued on 31 July. As early as 1 August, I made it clear that it should be answered as quickly as possible. I would remind you that the matter is quite technical, complex and that, because of its history, decisions have taken place, including in the area of justice, which are not necessarily concerted and, above all, corresponding. In addition, I stated that there was no need to appeal. We did not appeal the order, although some parties in the previous government wanted it. I hope, Mrs Galant, that you will not appeal the decision of 31 July. On the other hand, three solutions were put on the table, including the moratorium, on which I will not return. The other two solutions provided a quick response to the Brussels prescription, as they did not require a significant amount of time. On the contrary, it could be set up within a few weeks or even a few days. In the absence of a government decision, since it had to be a government decision in day-to-day affairs, I asked Belgocontrol to start working to implement the court decision, namely the removal of the roads of February 6. That's what Belgocontrol did. He confirmed it to me. And not only did he confirm it to me, but he also sent me several letters of which I sent you a copy, Mrs Galant, letters which I can make available to this Parliament since I have kept a copy of them. In these documents, Belgocontrol asked me for technical explanations and pointed out that I could no longer do anything because of the complicated situation. And each time, quickly, we responded to these technical problems and continued to insist that Belgocontrol work. Beyond the moratorium you have decided to put in place, the real question of the Brussels overflight is the permanent dismissal, as in a ping-pong game, of the hot potato from one corner to the other of Brussels. The time has come today to find a comprehensive solution that will allow us to take into account the global reality of all the people living in the area, of all the people who fly over. I see that some colleagues are getting impatient! Mr President, I think I can say that, in this debate, my group has not spoken very much. However, twice in five minutes I was interrupted for a personal fact. It seems to me that I have the right to answer. As I said, the time has come to find a comprehensive solution for all those who fly over. I am thinking here not only of the extremely delicate issue of roads in less densely populated areas, but also of the issue of nights. Indeed, due to a decision of the European Council, in the next two years the capacity of airports will no longer be reduced and the operating conditions of airports tightened. I will conclude my speech with one last point. You're saying you asked for a legal analysis. The Minister has already been at your disposal for a week. I told you. This is a comprehensive legal analysis that I have had done by a well-known firm whose name I will not mention here. Rather than asking for an analysis that has already been done and that I have given you with a lot of correction, I suggest that you proceed on the basis of the document at your disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u62	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, you intervened to justify what you did or did not do. This is not a policy of the future. We talked about the overflight of Brussels. For my part, I would like to make two points, Madam Minister. So everyone takes the plane except, maybe, environmentalists who say they're not flying. (Tumults on some benches)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u63	If I allow myself to make such a statement, it is because I know them and I have already heard them talk about this subject! That said, the Zaventem airport is close to Brussels and, because of the decisions that have been taken, causes a large number of nuisances at the level of part of our capital. Although the moratorium is a solution that must now be taken into consideration – the Prime Minister has already spoken on this – I plead that the problem should not be referred to other areas of Brussels or other regions. I plead that we should think about finding structural solutions for the future. Since we're close to the airport, everyone has to take their share of the nuisances. By proposing structural solutions, being of good account and reasonable, we should draw up a good plan. I would add that decisions should be considered at both take-off and landing levels because the situation is different. Madam Minister, I am counting on you to ensure the general interest by making the best decisions on this matter. I thank you in advance for your care in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have to deal with the problem of Zaventem airport at 9.15 p.m. in an investigation debate. However, I agree with the government agreement that we must return to the Schouppe plan and that we must be careful when taking new initiatives in this area. Mrs Fonck, Mr Wathelet took new initiatives in this area in February and you thought you would solve the problem by shifting the burden towards Flanders, with the Ikea route and the Noordrand route. So you have tried to solve the problem by shifting it one-sidedly and without consultation, to Flanders. Fortunately, this is no longer the case at the moment because of the concertation procedure. In the future, however, structural solutions must be sought. It is important to take account of the capacity and the importance of the historic routes. We must not improvise and think that we can transfer the matter to certain regions in Brussels, to the Noordrand or Oostrand in Flanders or to Leuven. It must be a balanced matter. This is a Pandora box that Mrs Durant opened at the time. Mr Anciaux and Mr Landuyt also bit their teeth on it. They called this the most rotten file, I am not going to use words that have to be deleted from the report, which start with kl and then were pronounced. Mr Prime Minister, this is a dossier which we must look at objectively, bearing in mind the support and history of this case and the fact that 60 000 people work at Zaventem airport. A few months ago, we had Mr Wathelet's statements that Zaventem airport could well be relocated to another region in Wallonia. Madam Secretary, it is a porcelain shop, beware of unilateral measures. Consensus. Ensure that there are structural solutions that are legally feasible. In no country in the world are flight routes destroyed by judges. We are in a sort of legalization of the whole problem. Depending on whether the judge lives in Elsene or in Asse, another ruling follows. So, Mrs Fonck, we really need to turn the flight path dossier into an objective dossier, in consultation and not one-sided. We must not use the dossier as an electoral tool but as a structural tool for the future. Mrs Fonck, the coalition agreement offers the guarantees you have never been able to give. You have also only been authorized for the file for a few months. However, your passage on the cabinet in question has been a real disaster.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u65	Mr President, Madam Minister, you are saying that you are going to meet with the various associations. Is an appointment already set? When? What time? What associations? I really need to know. When they say an appointment has been set, I'm going to check it out. I would also like to stress, in line with what my colleague, Mr President, has said. Van Rompuy, it is obvious that there must be a proper dispersal of Brussels and the whole periphery, to the south, north, east, west. There is very good way to find good solutions. I insist on night flights. We must draw inspiration from what is happening in Frankfurt and other capitals. We have to take an example on these metropolises. I think that, too, is an important point to be resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the debate on routes requires some serenity. It is very important that everyone, from any group, realizes that the economic importance of our airport is primordial and that the airport is one of the main engines of economic growth that we can achieve in the years to come. We must continue to support this airport, whatever its problems, such as air and noise pollution. I was born near runway 02, where the planes open their wheels. We used to be very happy that planes flew over and we could see from Kraainem to Mechelen where the planes went down and took off. Over the past 10 years, many of us have messed up, thinking that everything can be optimally spread. Now, my dear friends, a plane must land and take off in full safety, which means taking into account the direction of the wind and many other factors, much more than we are aware of today in the hemisphere. In this respect, I urge the Minister to work on a new flight law, in which everything is clearly and unequivocally expressed, so that there can be no more discussion between any region of the island, and so that one does not have to go to some court to fight some flight route. Then we get a long-term solution, which gives us the assurance that our national airport will remain our pride and our economic engine for the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u67	Mr President, is the discussion on the flight route closed?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u68	The discussion on night flights is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u69	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers, but I still have a reply, consisting of three points. Firstly, with regard to the budgetary aspect, we need to save EUR 2.1 billion and debt stabilisation is needed. Again, you do not understand what 600 million euros in 2019 means on that budget. You say there is no saving on safety and personnel. The underinvestment in the 1980s by then Minister of Transport Herman De Croo read the report that your party supported, Minister De Croo, after having caused infrastructure problems. A reduction in investment does therefore cause a safety problem. You say you will not save on safety and personnel. Then I can only conclude that you will save heavily on the traveler. Mr van den Bergh, you are warning us not to frighten the citizens. Where else will you get the money if those two posts are not saved? Early and late trains will continue to be abolished, station projects in smaller municipalities and supply will be cancelled. It is a pity that the government does not dare to acknowledge this, but merely sloganically states that it is up to the railway company to take decisions. Once again, minimum services are protected. Madam Secretary, you mentioned a protocol agreement. That protocol agreement is there. At the time, in the period from 2007 to 2010, I even defended it from the opposition banks, along with CD&V. Mr Verherstraeten, at the time when CD&V was still one and indivisible, also with the ACV, that was defended here. I note that CD&V went flat on the belly today and actually dropped the ACV completely. That is the harbinger of minimum services and further liberalisation of rail. I knew that the MR, Open Vld and the N-VA would introduce that, but that CD&V is part of that, disappoints me very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u70	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, you have not answered my questions, nor the concerns of commuters, nor the fears of workers. As far as guarantees are concerned, you answer: we will see. As far as savings are concerned, you say: I'll think about it. It will take a time of reflection and a lot of imagination to find 2 billion euros! You say you meet the unions tomorrow; the unions have already spoken. Minister, I am not asking you for your agenda, I do not want to know where and when. I'm not asking for anything. You say you are going to meet with the unions, but they have already quantified what this meant: 6,500 jobs. Take it to the Walloon government as much as you want, it feels good, but I know the song. Here, in your department, there are 6,500 workers. Today is your most beautiful day, the easiest. You can tell us that it is because of the others, because of the socialists, because of the former governments where, apparently, for 15 years, the Liberals were also present like many others. But it's always our fault. When it comes to caricature, you pointed at me. We come almost from the same region. As they say at home, "We're always blackened by a black pot."
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u71	Mr Van Hecke, you will have the floor, but please be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u72	Mr President, I am quite brief in general, so you should not worry. I would like to respond to the Minister's reply, which, despite the fact that she is aware that she has received a poisoned gift, still seems very optimistic and competitive, at least today. It's probably the honeymoon that makes her very happy. However, I fear that the hangover will not arrive until a few days or weeks, when it really realizes what the EUR 2 billion means. Madam Minister, I have asked two questions that have not been answered. Firstly, what will be the distribution of efforts between Infrabel and SNCB? Or is that something they should make out to each other? I wish you every success if they have to fight it out themselves. Secondly, will there be any change in the train drivers' pension scheme? If you don't know the answer, then perhaps the Minister of Pensions knows it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u73	Mr President, I would just like to respond to a number of comments that have been made in our direction. I think the CD&V touch is clearly in the text. A clear choice has been made to seek solutions in consultation, after social consultation, with respect for the right to strike. All this is explicitly stated in the texts. I would advise you to read those texts carefully again. Secondly, one continues to make assumptions, based on an amount, of the consequences. Now, if we tackle this in a good, sensible way, and there are a lot of slopes through which we can save without touching on the achievements that have been raised, then we will have removed fewer connections than the previous government. That is the challenge we want to face.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u74	Mr President, I would like to reassure Mr Devin very briefly. I've had the best days in my life. I've been here since 2:15, I'm telling you, I've really had some nicer ones. [[Brouhahaha]] Mrs Fonck, since you were in charge of this matter, there have been no Council of Ministers, no Kern and no clear instructions. You have proposed three solutions by mail: the ring road, the Ikea road and the moratorium. The first two solutions are far too dangerous to be implemented. As for the moratorium, it took 30 weeks to put it in place. And from 15 November onwards, periodic payments of 50 000 euros a day fall for the Belgian State. I am therefore committed to respecting the government agreement. As far as legal analysis is concerned, I thank you for passing it on to me, but there is a lack of detail that I have to receive on Monday morning. As soon as I have this information, I will be able to lay down the moratorium. I would just like to conclude by saying: what have they done since 2011, apart from raising the biggest popular protest ever in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u75	Would the Rules have changed or is the last word for parliamentarians?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u76	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u77	It reassures me. Because for 48 hours, I feel like we've been revisiting the Rules of Procedure of this House. Or at least how to apply it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u78	No, Mrs. Fonck!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u79	Mr President, I have no problem going on in a ping-pong game. The rule of parliament is that. Mrs Galant, yes, there have been Councils of Ministers since July: Councils of e-Ministers. Secondly, I myself do not have the capacity to summon the Kern, as the Prime Minister is aware. Because I imagine, Prime Minister, that you will summon the kerns, and not Mrs. Galant. That reassures me, we agree on this point. (Tumults on some benches) Finally, Prime Minister, I imagine you remember the phone call you made to me. I don't want to explain the nature of our interview. I believe I have shown, Prime Minister – you were not at that time, since you were a trainer – the greatest possible collaboration. A number of important data will be transmitted. It was at the very beginning of August. Since then, I have been waiting in vain for the MR group to have been able to express an interest in this matter. I am delighted to see now that you are taking advantage of it. Nevertheless, it is a pity that since 1 August, Mr.Prime Minister, you who were a trainer, you have not told me about it again – even though you promised me to do so very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u80	Personal fact. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u81	Mrs Fonck, if, by this personal fact, you want to take me with feelings, it works. More seriously, we had a telephone conversation when I was designated as a trainer with Kris Peeters. That said, we have to explain things as they are. There was a government in day-to-day affairs, of which you were a member. The Prime Minister had the opportunity to convene a Kern or a government meeting. On the other hand, there was a coalition in formation, which does not have the political capacity – for lack of support to parliament – to give instructions to administrations or a government in day-to-day affairs. Everyone very quickly measured, throughout August, the orientations taken by this coalition in formation. Meanwhile, I did not have the legitimacy to give instructions. But that's what you could do in a government in day-to-day business, given the heavy financial risk to the federal government. You have made the choice not to act, and I do not blame you, in the context of the government's day-to-day business. My Government, together with the minister in charge, will very quickly determine the implementation of the agreements as they have been concluded so that the moratorium, the first phase in this matter, is a reality as soon as possible and that the financial consequences of the decision taken by the Court in Brussels are as far as possible avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u82	Mr President, I hope that Mrs Fonck will not be given the last word in a file that she has completely messed up in the three months she has been working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u83	Mr President, in any case, the last word will go to a Member of Parliament! Prime Minister, thank you for your kind answer. It would have been a pleasure to be able to work on this issue in a Council of Ministers, which was not convened. Despite this, I have indeed pushed Belgocontrol to move forward in his work and all these weeks are so many weeks earned and that we will no longer have to devote ourselves to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not take the somewhat moderate interest in our two public companies operating in the telecommunications and postal sectors personally. It concerns two completely commercial sectors. The two companies, bpost and Proximus, are successful. They are companies that have been through a transformation process and are today innovative and performant and count a lot of very satisfied customers. This is mainly thanks to the staff of the two companies, who manage to make the most of it every day. Nevertheless, the two companies are in a commercial sector where today's playing field is not always the same. So what we want to do, among other things, is modernise the 1991 law to ensure that those companies with equal arms can compete with the commercial companies currently operating in the purely commercial sector. Mr Devin, you argued that we would do the same thing as Mr Magnette and Mr Labille. I don't agree at all. Indeed, I do not intend to do the same at all, I have no intention of getting involved in these companies, with the result, for example, that a CEO respected by all, like Johnny Thijs, leaves the company because of the Minister's too many interventions in the company. It is by no means my intention to act in this way. Maybe we should talk about the minimum service. My colleague has already mentioned this briefly. People want us to believe that the minimum service is a concept that this coalition has invented and that it is the first time that this is being implemented in the world. This is absolutely not the case! In Germany there is a form of minimum service. Officials have no option of stopping. In Italy there is a form of minimum service. In the United Kingdom and even in France, there are forms of minimum service provision. We want to retain the right to strike, but we want at least to ensure that those who want to work are given the opportunity to work. I do not see why we should not be able to introduce into Belgium what exists in several other European countries. If we give companies the resources of the community, it also seems logical to me that we should ask them to provide that community with a service.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u85	Mr Labille did not intervene in the company, he intervened on the amount of the salary. It's different.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u86	Minister, I have asked you for two very specific questions. Firstly, explain to me the model of participation. Secondly, the remuneration of CEOs. The government is positive. What about the remuneration of CEOs in public enterprises? Will it remain the same as we approved the previous legislature? Thirdly, I regret that there is no mention of social level playing field anywhere in the text. This is essential in dealing with these public companies. I would like to receive an answer to these specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u87	Mr President, Mr Geerts, I am happy to give you an answer. The management of participation is intended to be transferred to the FPIM. The FPIM is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. Today, the management of participation is spread across different ministers. The centralisation of the FPIM, with the possibility of managing it in a modern and more efficient way, is what this is about. I think this is a good thing. You mentioned the social level playing field. I've already explained that. Today, these public companies have to compete in a purely commercial market. The telecom and postal markets are now fully commercial markets. There are few countries in Europe where the government still participates in a telecom company. Since it is a purely commercial market, I want to ensure that those companies have the opportunity to use the same weapons as purely commercial companies. This is not the case today and a number of elements in the Statute do not allow it. These are commercial sectors. Perhaps we should look at the public sector from the perspective of the citizen, the customer rather than from the perspective of the government. That is probably where we differ. The customer is looking for an innovative quality service at a good price. That's the analysis I'd make. I would analyse the telecoms market and the postal market. What measures are needed to ensure that the market functions as effectively as possible? On the basis of this analysis, we will examine what measures are needed within these companies. That's the order. We look first at the citizen and then at the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u88	This is an interesting debate which we must certainly continue. It's interesting that you say you want to take it to the FPIM and then see what you're doing. But in the coalition agreement I read the prelude to a further reduction of the government interest, both at Belgacom and at bpost, and a further privatisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u89	You shouldn't put words in my mouth that I didn't say. I say that the analysis we will make will be an analysis based on the market. Any decision on ownership or participation is derived from that analysis of the market. You're reasoning from a different angle. You say that the State must retain as much ownership as possible of companies in purely commercial sectors. That is your starting point. We have a different starting point. We're gonna go with the civilian. What is needed to provide citizens with the best possible service?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u90	We shall come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u91	This will enable us to close the discussion on the chapter on Mobility and Public Enterprises and to switch to that on Foreign Affairs, Development Cooperation and Defence. The first speaker is Mrs Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u92	Mr. Chair, Minister, I am concerned because this government's vision of international relations is frightening. She's scared because she seems to want to focus on warring actions and business. I therefore fear that in the coming months our country will become a blind Atlanticist actor in the name of market interest and short-term equities. I fear that humanitarianism, international solidarity and aid to the people will be ignored. Indeed, how can we explain the budgetary restrictions on development cooperation when, at the same time, several billion budgets are planned for Defence without a strategic plan? Yet there is no peace and no defence of human rights in the world by sending bombs. More comprehensive diplomatic, humanitarian, rights and socio-economic development solutions are needed. However, it is quite the opposite that has been proposed to us. Let me introduce you to some excerpts from the menu. First of all, there is the instrumentalisation of the cooperation policy which must be used to solve the problems of immigration, security and, above all, to generate new markets for private companies. The agreement stresses, in particular, that cooperation should enable the investment climate to improve, which is an added value for Belgian companies, experts and universities. For the PS, it is essential that private investment be put at the service of development, not the other way round, in particular by focusing on support for the local private sector. In addition, your government agreement does not contain a line, for example, on the fight against hunger in the world or against speculation or land grabbing, the question of fighting inequality, the question of cancelling debts or vulture funds. All these aspects have been ignored. Nor is there anything about sexual and reproductive rights within the framework of the post-2015 Millennium Development Goals. Despite the resolution adopted by our Parliament. So I feel like I have development cooperation at a discount. This is also what I think your false promise of achieving the 0.7 per cent target of gross national income. Indeed, how to believe it when you first indicate that it will depend on the budgetary possibilities. How to believe it when your party's program, Mr. De Croo, cast doubt on this norm. Under these circumstances, can you tell me in detail what this budgetary framework will require as savings? What will be the impact of these economies on development cooperation? With regard to the issue of financing, I would like to recall that this Parliament, at the initiative of the PS, adopted a resolution on innovative sources of financing for development cooperation, including the tax on financial transactions, during the previous parliamentary term. There, again, not a line on this issue is to be found in the agreement, while the MR program was talking about it. I also note the desire to concentrate development cooperation on a sectoral, thematic and geographical basis: fewer countries and fewer partner organisations. But nothing is said about the political choices that will be made. We can therefore very much fear that these choices will not be neutral. What real freedom of action will there still be for NGOs? Which countries will you remove from this list? In which international organizations will you concentrate aid? References to aid efficiency, effectiveness and coherence are important. In this regard, the Development Cooperation Act, initiated by Ministers Magnette and Labelle, provides an excellent framework for work. Yet we need to know how this government intends to translate them into action and intend to evaluate them. At this stage, however, nothing appears on this point either in the agreement. I look forward to hearing from you on all these elements. Indeed, it is not enough to write that one wants to promote and defend the protection of human rights, respect for the physical integrity of everyone, the protection of the specific rights of women, children and vulnerable persons, respect for international labour law, and the fight against impunity for serious violations of international humanitarian law. It is not enough for slogans, it is necessary to act. Now, for the moment, by ratifying the European Union/Colombia/Peru agreement, by not saying a word about Palestine in this government agreement, and well, Minister, you promise us the opposite. And that, Minister, my group cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I note that the Foreign Minister is not here. I know he's apologized, and I won't claim him. I can tell him and this will surprise you - understand. It's the seventh coalition agreement I'm facing here in our house. As spokesman for my party on foreign policy, I have studied seven times the chapters in the government agreement on foreign policy. What's in store here is a lot of bleat and no wool. I have never read a coalition agreement or a chapter of foreign policy in a coalition agreement which is more vague and meaningless than that in the proposed coalition agreement. I can understand that Didier Reynders isn't here today, because I wouldn't want to take care of that either. That is not mere opposition talk, I will illustrate you with five examples. I have taken five themes that are very high on the international agenda. Then I checked what's on that in the coalition agreement. The first theme is climate. Colleagues, in all the foreign ministries, the diplomats go into overdrive. They are preparing for the spring of next year one of the most important international conferences in Paris, particularly on climate change. You agree with me that the climate challenge is one of the biggest challenges facing the international community. I would like to read out to you what is stated in the chapter on foreign policy of the coalition agreement: the development of an energy and climate policy, adapted to the needs of this period. Colleagues, can you tell from that phrase what the government's policy is and what position it will take at the international conference in Paris in March 2015? I can't. Secondly, a few weeks ago, the whole of Europe was worried sick about the tensions caused by the Ukraine crisis. Is it too much to ask the government to say a little more about foreign policy in the coalition agreement? I assume that everyone agrees with me that our relationship with Russia and the way we deal with the problems in Ukraine is a top issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read one sentence to you in the chapter on foreign policy. Hold on. I quote: 'This problem also requires careful bilateral follow-up'. Does anyone here know what the new government's policy on our relations with Russia and on the crisis in Ukraine will be? Ladies and gentlemen, may we ask that it be something more? Now I come to the third dossier, which is high on the international agenda, namely the crisis in Gaza. Ladies and gentlemen, I challenge you all. I have read the chapter in question three times from the front to the back and from the back to the front. Not a word about Gaza can be found in the chapter on Foreign Policy. Is it too much to ask to hear from the new government how it stands with regard to the blockade of Gaza? What is her position in relation to the possible recognition of the Palestinian State? The British Parliament approved that last week. Is it too much to ask the new majority to clarify what it thinks about settlement policy? Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing, not a word about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in the chapter on Foreign Policy. I understand that Minister Reynders is not here today. I suspect he was in the negotiations with his head somewhere else. He probably didn't expect to have to take responsibility for that department again. I know that Minister Reynders is capable of more than what is in the relevant chapter of the coalition agreement. I come to a fourth example, the crisis in Iraq and Syria, and the participation of our Belgian army in the coalition currently operating in Iraq, which we agree with, and Syria, which others agree with. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no mention of this in the chapter on foreign policy of the new government. The moment is coming. On 26 September, after a good debate in the Chamber, we authorised the Belgian army to participate for a month in the fight against DAESH in Iraq. The moment of evaluation is near. I tried this morning at the Conference of Presidents to ensure that the agreement on this matter with Parliament was respected. This wasn't made possible, but at least I'm going to give my evaluation today. I'd like to ask the Secretary of Defense a question. What's the evaluation our Defense Department makes of it? A military evaluation first. I'm afraid to say that the air strikes will not stop Daesh's offensive. Look at Kobani, which is 40% owned by Daesh. We all know that, but what is not known is that Daesh is still making progress in the province of Anbar, the region around Baghdad. A first conclusion, and I also said it on 26 September, is that we, together with many others, have our doubts as to whether air strikes are effective. A second military determination, ground troops are absolutely necessary. With what we have now, the limitations are obvious. The Iraqi army does nothing; when the Shiite militia conquers land, they avenge themselves on the Sunnis and the Kurdish army has the hands full with the defence of its own territories and certainly does not want to act outside. Minister, this Tuesday the United States called on 20 countries, including Belgium, to evaluate the strategy adopted so far. My question is, what is your evaluation? I come to my final point, and I am truly most disappointed about that. I find nothing in the coalition agreement about dealing with the Ebola crisis. The threat it poses is many times greater than Daesh. This week, the World Health Organization did a wake-up call. If there is not a coordinated international approach soon, we will have 1 000 new Ebola cases per week by the end of the month. Colleagues, viruses have no boundaries. All specialists say that it will not be long before we are faced with a similar case in Belgium. It is unheard of that Belgium does not participate internationally, because Belgium has the know-how. The Institute of Tropical Medicine of Antwerp is one of the most renowned institutes that can tackle Ebola.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u94	Secondly, we hear many negatives about the Democratic Republic of Congo but it is not sufficiently known that thanks to the cooperation between the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp and Congolese specialists that Congolese specialists have managed to control ten fireplaces of Ebola in the equator province in recent weeks and months. It is Belgium's duty to engage internationally in the front line to tackle Ebola. It is a shame that this is not in your coalition agreement. I call on all the relevant ministers, including Minister De Croo, to make the necessary resources available. It is important that we address the problem at source in Africa if we are to prevent us from having problems here in Belgium. This is a call from the sp.a.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u95	Mr President, I am a little surprised by what Mr. Van der Maelen. Mr. Van der Maelen, I appreciate your analysis. You have noted some of the elements that I think are of great interest, the last one in particular. I'd still like to remind you of one thing. Our decision to participate in the coalition to strike the Islamic State, you voted for it. You voted in favour of this involvement of Belgium in an exceptional way since we did not have a government in office. So, naturally, we had to have the House's approval. In the resolution that was voted almost unanimously by the parliamentary groups, it was stated that our participation should last at least one month and that it should be evaluated. I do not see why you would have found more specific elements concerning Belgium's participation in this coalition within the government agreement. It is understood that the commitment that has been made is that we can assess it. It is, of course, too early at this stage to proceed, but it will come. It was not the government's agreement to produce something about this House decision that was binding on our country. Your criticisms of Belgium's participation are rather strong, rather green, but a little surprising, given the fact that this text was voted on just two or three weeks ago. You seem to question that, which surprised me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of defence, the measures announced in the government agreement clearly form part of a conservative, if not even medieval, view of international relations. The concept of an attack army replaces that of an army in the service of peace and people. Still, we must have the financial means of our ambitions. Thus, the majority, in a rather vague text, undertook to present a strategic plan within six months, but seems to have already made a choice for replacing major equipment such as the F-16s by bomber fighters; in short, a barely veiled support to the F-35 Americans. The day before yesterday, the Prime Minister spoke of paying attention to the economic benefits for Belgium. In the specific case, they are likely to be null and void. Worse, while the government agreement speaks of a budget shortage, there is no clear choice, except perhaps to sacrifice the medical component. Worse still, we're talking about billing for some assistance missions to the Nation. Should we understand, for example, that MSF Belgium will have to pay for the repatriation of an Ebola-affected humanitarian? Or, as a mayor, I also ask myself the question: should it be understood that the communes will have to pay in the event of relief in their territory of the population suffering from natural disasters? All-outsourcing announced, the possible closure of the military hospital, the threats to military training and well-being, and the lack of willingness to respond to the linguistic imbalance in the army are all concerns for my group, which I will come back to in the coming weeks. Finally, we are talking about an operational framework under the cover of the United Nations, as you withdraw from the United Nations mission in Lebanon and, on the other hand, consider returning to Afghanistan within a NATO framework. This is another anachronism in a visibly Atlanticist policy, while broad support for Defence Europe was expressed by this House by adopting a PS resolution on this subject. The Prime Minister was talking about structural reforms, but what he said by the way is a lapalissade. First of all, when it comes to defence, it would be better to structure the reforms and find out where you're going.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if the Minister for Development Cooperation takes sustainable development to heart in the South, then it is a good thing that a Deputy Minister has the power to do so. Because he is also part of the government's core policy, the Minister can ensure that the entire government shows solidarity with the South in all policy areas. However, Minister, there are worrying signals. In the coalition agreement, it is unclear which development cooperation this government chooses. The government wants to reduce the number of countries receiving aid from Belgium from 18 to 15, which means that three countries will no longer receive support from governmental cooperation. In the case of multilateral organizations, the government agreement also announces a restriction of 20-15. The sp.a hopes that the limitation of organisations and partner countries is not a disguised saving tool, but rather a concentration measure. There are arguments for that. Only concentration should be a means, but not an end in itself. We are therefore asking for a political debate on the objective criteria on which to concentrate, in close consultation with the partner country and with other donors. This also presupposes a thorough assessment of government cooperation in those countries which are leaving, not only on the basis of volume but also on the basis of output and impact. We also call for a coherent policy of sustainable development in the middle-income countries. This term has been chosen unfortunately, because 80% of the poorest still live in these countries. The challenges in terms of development are enormous. Moreover, these countries have a crucial role to play in addressing global challenges. An exit from governmental cooperation will thus not be without consequences. It is therefore necessary to clarify quickly how Belgium intends to implement a renewed partnership for sustainable development. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have also received concerns from civil society. The NGOs have questions about their future. The government intends to strengthen the quality requirements for non-governmental cooperation actors and further reduce the number of organisations to be recognised. The coalition agreement states quite literally that, in the context of the tight budgetary situation, all forms of cooperation will contribute to the savings effort. However, we fear that these efforts will be unevenly divided. Investment in defence must not be at the expense of development cooperation, because the world does not need new weapons, but solidarity. Global poverty has fallen slightly, according to a report of 11.11.11, but certain regions such as Central Africa are lagging behind. Overall, 1.2 billion people still live in extreme poverty. Global inequality is growing. The effects of climate change are becoming increasingly apparent. Mr Minister, development aid is therefore a better investment than the militarisation of our foreign policy. Before I close, I would like to tell you that further efforts are needed in Central Africa, and specifically in Congo, as the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration is questioning the economic added value of Congolese migrants in our country. You want them to stay in their country? Well, it will then be your job to keep them there by making the necessary investments there.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I read in the coalition agreement that Defence has already saved enough in recent years and is rewarded for this with additional investment and resources. Apparently, Defense is the only department where you won't cut back. It seems that the new government prefers to invest in expensive toys rather than in prosperity, albeit on the hood of families. After all, cutting back on people is the common thread of the coalition agreement. In the case of the Defense Department, they want to save money, but on the staff. We already knew the government would replace the F-16s, but now apparently there are also frigates, mine sweepers and drones on the list. Some transparency about the cost or quantity, and where the budget will come from, I find nowhere. The fact that all these purchases have to be made within the Defense budget seems impossible to me. Additional resources will have to be provided. That is why we ask you to be transparent about where the budget will come from. In addition, the coalition agreement states that Defense will raise money. Invoking Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU seeks to influence positively the industrial and economic dimension, but thus undermines democratic debate and transparency under the guise of security interests; Ladies and gentlemen, the cost of such purchases is not limited to this budget. The payment deadlines will put a mortgage on the upcoming governments. It seems that these costs are not being examined. It is also striking that this coalition agreement pays so much attention to the central role of NATO, whereas the United Nations is actually the only legitimate international organisation when it comes to safeguarding peace and security in the world. In this context, I would like to mention two examples. The government wants to achieve the withdrawal of nuclear weapons if it can be approved by NATO. At the same time, the government also wants to support the UN Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Ladies and gentlemen, nuclear weapons are useless, expensive and dangerous weapons of mass destruction. For sp.a it is clear that Belgium, as a sovereign country, can tell the US that we want these nuclear weapons off our soil. That's how we can start the conversations. We would be far from the first or the only ones, because other countries have already done so. I come to a second example. The government proposes that Belgium should withdraw from the operation in Lebanon, although this is a sensible mission, while the disastrous NATO operation in Afghanistan is being continued. Lebanon may be the only democracy in that part of the Middle East. Retreating from there would be a strange signal for a region that is currently on fire. Ladies and gentlemen, a strong defence policy must fit in with a sound political framework, in which Defence, Foreign Affairs and Development Assistance share the same concerns. However, there is no reference to such a 3D approach in the chapter on Defence. There is also no mention of the evaluations of past or ongoing missions. The priorities of this government seem not to be the maintenance or defence of peace, but rather to show the ostentatiousness of being a loyal ally of the US and NATO.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u99	Mr Top, I would like to point out that we should not remain under church towers to stare a little at our own navel. We have to look at the world. We all note that this world is very restless and very unstable and that there are several threats and challenges coming towards us. Of course, I am thinking primarily of Syria, apparently very far away but with the Syrian fighters returning very close to our bed. There are also fireplaces at the borders of Europe. It has an effect on our safety. Mr Top, if all diplomatic talks are exhausted and consultations are no longer possible, then it is, unfortunately, sometimes necessary to force peace. As the sp.a group rightly points out, we do not need ostriches, we need birds of a different calibre. We'll need fighters. Those fighter planes do cost money because domestic and foreign security costs money. International solidarity and international security cost money. We're in an alliance, NATO. You say that we stress that much too much. However, we must take responsibility there and not just look at the lusts we have within NATO. There is never a NATO problem within your group when it comes to, for example, a brand new and expensive SHAPE building in Mons. Then we're all pro NATO. However, when it comes to burdens, we are against NATO. Well, that kite definitely doesn't go on. There are indeed social needs, and they are very important, that is correct. However, our security is also extremely important. If we lose that security and the sense of security, it is extremely difficult to win it back. If we lose our security, we lose everything, Mr Top, including our social security. I would like to come back to Lebanon. Foreign missions are indeed the core business of the Defense Department. Train our military to be sent on foreign missions. They are not there to fill sandbags and they are not there to fill buildings in Brussels. However, Mr Top, our task in Lebanon is over. Actually, it's been on for a long time. This government assumes that if we have less spread theaters and we are present in fewer places, we can send more soldiers abroad. That's gotta be the DOD's target.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u100	Mrs. Grosemans, please conclude. Don't exaggerate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u101	We still have humanitarian actions and they are very important. We still have transportation with the C-130 pistols and we're still training people in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u102	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to say a few words about Europe, because this is part of Foreign Affairs and it has not yet been discussed today. I'm surprised and worried. Indeed, the paragraph on Europe is little developed, limited and far from the breath of the December 2011 declaration, which called for an ambitious Europe with progress and solidarity. In his government's agreements, we no longer find this ambition for another Europe, a more integrated Europe, a Europe closer to the citizens, while Belgium has always taken on a pioneering role in European integration. Your chapter does not or does not address the strengthening of solidarity between states, the importance of consolidating the tools to avoid a financial crisis, reviving Europe's growth. The social dimension also appears little in this paragraph. If the fight against social dumping is included, do you intend to defend the measures taken in Belgium against the Commission? Will you defend the deepening of the rules in this field? Will you fight social exclusion? So many things that don't appear! Why? Would it be negligence, haste in finalising the document or the influence of the N-VA, whose representatives to Europe are in a Eurosceptic group? Is that it? I wonder. So I wanted to ask you the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u103	Mr President of all, thank you. I note that the rules that were mentioned earlier in the Conference of Presidents are being changed. I, too, wish to intervene in this logic. I fully agree with my distinguished colleague, Mr Dirk Van der Maelen, on the content of the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u104	Mr Crusnière, you don't read any text when you interrupt! You speak out in front of the fist and do not just read a prepared text. You should have enlisted as a speaker. The list was open until last night.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u105	Mr President, this has never been specified.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u106	That is also the obvious fact, Mr Crusnière.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u107	As a matter of fact, it's now that we're doing it! I shall therefore conclude my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u108	If you just say what you have to say without reading it, you can do it now. Otherwise, you're gonna have to stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u109	I regret the position taken. This is a position of going-in-war.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u110	Mr Crusnière, you must read your texts at another time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u111	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u112	That may be, but that's your judgment. I don't think so. Mr. Van Hees, briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u113	Mr President, we talked earlier about the military budget. Mrs. Galant is looking for $2 billion for her trains. The Minister of Defence – perhaps he should be called the Minister of the Attack – could not find in his budget of 6 billion for the purchase of F-35, enough to finance Mrs Galant's trains. In my view, this is a pragmatic solution that would enable the problem to be resolved fairly quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to react to Mr Top's speech on nuclear weapons. It is clear that the government agreement before us is unsatisfactory. But the previous agreement was equally so. You didn't do anything, Mr. Top, when you were in the majority. I would like to comment on two cases that show a striking contrast in the approach. The first relates to development cooperation. The government agreement provides that "Belgium will make efforts to the extent of the budgetary possibilities to reach the target of 0.7% of gross national income"; the Prime Minister repeated it here the day before yesterday. But on the next page of the same agreement, it is stated that "all forms of cooperation will contribute in the years to come to the efforts of budgetary economy". Prime Minister, how can we ensure growth from the current 0.45% to the 0.7% in 2015, as the European Union is asking us to do? According to rumours, Minister in charge of Cooperation, as early as 2015, your budget would be planed by 150 million euros with an evolution to reach 270 million euros in 2019. Mr De Croo, can you tell us the exact amounts of savings to be made for the period 2015 to 2019? Prime Minister, the text on page 102 of your agreement is not very clear on the accounting of the Development Cooperation budget. It says that the remnants of climate policy that were denounced by my group leader yesterday will be included in the development cooperation budget. This practice is contrary to the commitments made in 2009 at the Copenhagen Conference. It is also contrary, minister, to what you said at that time. In May 2009, you said to the Flemish magazine MO: "Economizing on cooperation is stupid. Whoever decides to do this will later receive the bill of insecurity and violence." In La Libre Belgique of December 2009, you said: "I feel the temptation of some to recycle the means for development cooperation by saying: 'Carpe, I baptize you rabbit'. It was money for development cooperation. Tomorrow, it will be called means to combat climate change. This notion of additional resources is crucial to me." What happened? You are concealing the political choice of a reduction in development cooperation budgets, which still hold you to heart, in ambivalence and fog. Worse. You use development aid to finance Belgian companies. It is the return of this old idea dear to Mr Reynders to pair any cooperation project with business aid. Cooperation, Prime Minister, is cooperation. State aid is state aid. I know you're not very attracted to them, but if you want to help businesses, do it, but on a budget other than development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u115	We can't hear Mr. Hellings, there's so much talk. Let those who want to talk come out in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u116	Colleagues, may I ask you to listen to Mr Hellings?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. One of the achievements of the latest development cooperation law is, of course, the imperfect financing of NGOs active in the sector, but it is also the draft policy of coherence. In other words, it is to ensure that development cooperation policy is not undermined by international trade policies, such as the Transatlantic Treaty or the Cooperation Treaty with Colombia – to which my group will oppose throughout this legislature, as it has always opposed in previous legislatures. Another case, which is very contrasted, is the Defence case. So there's no problem: you've found the means. The agreement explicitly refers to Belgium's financial contribution to the construction in Brussels of the new headquarters of the Atlantic Alliance. He also spoke of Belgium's 15 million contribution to the new mission in Afghanistan and, of course, provided for a ten-year programming law, as well as the replacement of F-16 fighter-bombers. While these colossal investments – we are talking about 5 to 6 billion simply for bomber fighters – have not been debated within the European Union and have not been the subject of a pooling and sharing, however necessary before considering such investments that commit the budget for several years or even decades. But we know why. From now on, you're focusing on NATO. That's what sweats with your entire statement. While the future federal government is calling on citizens and public services to drastically tighten their belts, the current coalition is considering $5 billion for a hasty purchase of aircraft. It is this choice that has not been coordinated, reflected or shared at European level. It is all the more shocking that the mission in Lebanon will stop when it has shown its effectiveness and is conducted under the aegis of the United Nations and not NATO. I will conclude with an essential element. Humanitarian needs continue to grow. The army could play a role in responding to these needs, which are becoming not only humanitarian but also major geopolitical security issues, as evidenced by the day-to-day stake of climate refugees and, as has been said, as demonstrated by the current Ebola epidemic. Despite the insistence of the current chairman of the Health Committee, Mrs Gerkens, your coalition refuses, at this stage, to grasp this important issue! Yet the Belgian army has a mobile laboratory, logistical and human resources to put at the service of caregivers, Belgian and foreign NGOs on the spot. The spread of this virus is linked to ignorance but also to the massification of transport. This epidemic has become an essential geopolitical issue, so much so that several important leaders, including the President of the United States, the French President, the President of the Italian Council, have declared this epidemic to be the most serious health emergency in recent years. The United Nations Security Council has just affirmed that it is a threat to peace. Yet, in your agreement, there is not the word Ebola in one place! All these files put in parallel show that this majority is not in line with the issues of our time. What a contrast between this blurry for Development Cooperation and this security certainty in the Defence chapter. It's your choice. You'll take care of it. In any case, this is not the choice of Ecolo-Groen.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u118	Mr President, I would like to speak spontaneously, but I do not want to prevent the minister from responding. I listened carefully to all the interventions. I will not try to convince you, but I cannot help but express my opinion and the reasons why I am enthusiastically voting on the Foreign Affairs side of the government's agenda. Of course, as was said a few moments ago, the whole thing is linked, including Defence and Development Cooperation. Let me go through with my thinking. Why do I react spontaneously? I understand parliamentary interventions being sometimes somewhat excited by the debate. However, to suggest that this text would not be good because the Foreign Minister Mr Reynders, one, would not have really dealt with it and, two, is not here tonight because he does not want to endorse something that is not good, etc., these are reactions that I consider to be at the limit of insult. (continuous tumult until the end of the procedure). The Minister of Foreign Affairs, for years, answered all the questions, he was present at all the assemblies to try to convince you. You can't deny it. He was in the House, he was in the Senate, and the former Prime Minister also attended all the meetings of the European Affairs Committee and answered questions. I mean by Mr. Van der Maelen, who spoke about some hotspot issues in the world, that the world is a set of continents, countries, regions, cities. Should we really explain every action in every city? A foreign policy, as you well know, is part of great principles that we are committed to defending, whether in Africa, Asia or America...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u119	Thank you, Mr. Miller. Mr Miller, that's enough! Please.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u120	I would like to thank Mr Miller for his statement. That might give me the opportunity to get an answer from him to a number of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u121	You will receive answers from the ministers. They haven't started yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u122	Mr President, I would like an answer from Mr Miller on the details, which I believe I have looked at in the coalition agreement. Mr Miller, what position will Belgium take in the so important climate conference that will take place in Paris in March?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u123	Mr van der Maelen, you will not repeat your five points, will you?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u124	No, but I want an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u125	I'm hoping for an answer, too, but I suggest...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u126	Apparently, the relationship with Russia is still such a piece of shit.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u127	I do not know who is served by it, but we now like to listen to the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u128	Mr van der Maelen, I understand that you have been somewhat quoted in relation to Mr Miller. Mr Reynders has asked me to replace him. If you have a little patience, I'll try to give you some of the answers. A government agreement should cover the entire five-year period. Foreign policy must constantly adapt to a world on the move. You are quoting a number of themes which are indeed very important today and which may still be important in a number of years' time. If you say that the government agreement on foreign affairs is an empty box, then you have not read it correctly. It is a very comprehensive agreement in the field of foreign affairs. Indeed, there is no list in which any current or potential conflict is discussed in detail. (Protests from Mr Van der Maelen) Will I have the opportunity to finish my speech? You are asking the question about the climate conference. There will be a European Council next week, which will prepare the Paris Conference. The aim is to drive it towards ambitious targets. The definition of these objectives is not, however, the competence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Foreign Minister is the one who will represent the government's opinion there. This will therefore lead to a discussion with the Minister responsible. We will certainly be defending ambitious objectives there. You asked questions about the situation in West Africa regarding Ebola. It is a very serious problem in terms of medical and humanitarian matters. I do not agree with you when you claim that Belgium is not making any efforts. That's not correct. The federal government is making efforts. I have taken decisions together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and instructed them to step up their efforts in the coming days. So with the claim that we are doing nothing about it, I do not agree at all. Mrs Grovonius spoke of something that I do not agree with at all. You say that we are in the process of instrumentalizing development aid. This is not in the agreement! We respect OECD standards that aid must be untied. This will therefore be an untied aid! You asked about 0.7% of development aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u129	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u130	May I ask you to exercise some patience and listen to the government's answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u131	Mrs Grovonius, I have no problem with the fact that you have a different opinion from mine, but at least have the politeness to listen to what I am trying to explain to you. You can answer later. It is true that we maintain the target of 0.7% and that development aid will be part of the budgetary effort. You mentioned the trade agreement with Colombia and Peru. I understand you don't agree with this trade agreement. I note, however, that there will soon be a princely mission in Peru and that the Walloon Region is taking part in it. So it's either important and you go, or it's not important and you don't participate in the princely economic mission. Since you're going, I guess it's still an important element. The agreement with Colombia and Peru contains provisions on human rights, the rule of law, good governance and the environment. We believe that building an economic relationship can be an engine for having more influence on the respect of human rights in these countries. Mrs Pehlivan, you expressed your concern that we are reducing the number of partner countries from 18 to 15 and that we are reducing the number of partner organisations from 20 to 15 at multilateral level. That is correct, and that will be an exercise in which we must be very careful. It seems logical to me that in a world like today, we have development cooperation based on a few principles. For example, some of these principles are that we are going to look at efficiency, so where we can have the most impact with the investments we make. In other words, we focus on regions in the world where we have the most influence and expertise. It is, of course, expected that this will continue to be the case within Central and North Africa. It is not the case that we are instrumentalising or polluting development cooperation, as some say. It is true that we are going to think about the regions and areas in which we can have the most influence. At a time when we are in a difficult budgetary situation, it seems logical to me that we should look at where the impact is greatest. It also seems logical to me that, in the selection of non-governmental organisations, we tighten up the standards. We want more quality. For the resources we invest, we want to achieve more quality, more return, more results in the countries where we operate. That will be the government's policy in the field of development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u132	Mr President, I listened carefully and heard five different themes during the various speeches. I will deal with it thematically rather than per speaker. Firstly, the foreign missions and their evaluations. Mr Van der Maelen, effective evaluations are being prepared for the operation in Iraq. I refer, for the military evaluation, to the follow-up committee, which meets with closed doors. There has indeed been international consultations. I am prepared to speak openly with you on this subject, if you would like to ask questions. Today the question has been asked to extend the current efforts. A dossier is being prepared and I will also discuss it with Parliament. With regard to the ground forces, I note that you are in favour. That question has not been asked today, but we suspect that it will soon be asked. We will, of course, inform Parliament in good time. In Lebanon, our work has ended today. The military who are still there today are in the process of painting border posts. I think that an international operation aimed at painting border posts is not on the agenda. We do want to extend the operation in Afghanistan. People are not ready to take over in Afghanistan today. We absolutely need our support there. This whole story is, of course, part of a broader vision that will later lead to a decent strategic plan that we will bring to Parliament within six months. We must assume that, if we are to be effective, we must dare to concentrate things. We can work more efficiently if we make limited efforts than if we react in a divided way. Mr Pirlot, you said that the agreement was rather Atlanticist. I don't agree. I don't think you've read what's in the government agreement. It is quite clear that we are talking there about international cooperation, both with the EU and with the ONU. We are looking for wider international cooperation and we are stressing that our future lies precisely in international cooperation at different levels. If we work together at European level, there is the problem that we will have to look for other means of getting the money paid. I come to the replacement of the F-16s and the related accusation that defence should not be spared on the hood of the working people and on which we should save. I don't know where you're getting your data. This time, the big axe has passed the defense because in the past, the Defense Department has contributed enough. I have looked at the tables distributed by the opposition's glasses and applied the figures applied by the opposition here in terms of the savings made by SNCB. If you had done that, you would find that the Defense Department will save the same calculation for the next five years and a half billion dollars. That is why we are saying that defence is not outside the budgetary reality of this country. Everyone's turning in. Defence will also have to turn in very heavy. However, you should know that a very large part of that budget is not compressible and that the consequences will be so serious that the number of operations will have to be reduced. Choices will have to be made. It is a challenge that I have to face as a minister and which will also have to deal with the people of defence. They'll do that as loyally as they've always done. The replacement of the F-16 dynamometers. The fact that we have lived in peace in this region for almost 70 years is important for me and for most in this hemisphere. This is a consequence of the fact that we are part of an international club. I have always learned that, if one wants to be part of a club, there are also a number of duties involved. In this sense, it is important that we fulfil our obligations. As far as Ebola is concerned, yesterday we talked about the possible use of the military hospital. I would like to make it clear what the role of Defense is in the story of Ebola. In the crisis cell, very clear agreements have been made on the different powers or roles to be played. Three hospitals have been designated for the care of patients today, they have also received and have been equipped to accommodate patients in the event. Defence has committed itself to providing transport through two fully equipped ambulances. It is not appropriate today to equip the Military Hospital as an emergency center. In the Military Hospital, only the burn centre is suitable for such an application in the short term. This would entail enormous costs and, at the same time, damage to the burn centre. We don't think that's the right choice. In fact, you have read in the coalition agreement that we will carry out a study for the medical component and specifically for the Military Hospital in order to assess the long-term feasibility. I am thinking here of meeting the concerns expressed by the speakers, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u133	Mr De Croo, you have not answered my question about the planned budgets and cuts for development cooperation in 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. What is planned? The press speaks of 150 million in 2015 and, eventually, 270 million in 2019. What about it? This does not appear in the table you distributed yesterday. Could you tell me more?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u134	The numbers you quoted are correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u135	Mr President, Minister, you are right to point out that I express my concern. I hope you share my concern. After all, it is not obvious to go from 18 to 15 countries. This means that three countries will fall out and no more resources will be given. They will have to adapt their functioning to that situation. It also means that five organisations and NGOs will no longer receive funds. This means that the exercise in this area will have to be very transparent. I hope, however, that we will be able to discuss the matter further in committee when we see your policy paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u136	Mr President, I would like to make three points. Firstly, Minister Vandeput, I would like to invite you to look at the report. I explained earlier that the strategy of air support by the West and by a few Arab countries, based on ground troops supplied by the Iraqi army, the Kurdish army and the Shiite militias, is not working. I have never argued that we should provide ground troops: No boots on the ground. I suggest you take a look at the report. It will reflect my words. I have stated that the strategy with the use of the troops is not working for the time being. Secondly, we will be able to debate the replacement of the F-16 for a long time. I won't go into the file. I would just like to ask a question about this. A month ago, Mrs Grosemans wrote a letter to Pieter De Crem, then Minister of Defence in current affairs, asking for transparency in the ongoing process, which was the question launched by Minister De Crem. I assume that letter is with you now. I can't imagine there's one problem left. Nor can I imagine that you would not give Mrs Grosemans what she asked for, namely that the Chamber would also receive the document on the basis of which the question was launched. Finally, I have a question for Secretary of State De Crem. I appreciate him coming to us tonight. I would like to ask him about the mediation efforts he has made. Mr. Secretary of State for Foreign Trade, you've been added to Deputy Prime Minister Peeters. Deputy Prime Minister Peeters is the man who, in his capacity as Prime Minister of the Flemish Government, has lodged a complaint against a decision of the other Minister with whom you must work closely, Minister Reynders, about the economic advisers installed by Mr Reynders. Mr Secretary of State for Foreign Trade, you must work with both Deputy Prime Ministers. Can you tell me the position of the federal government in this matter? The answer may also come from the Prime Minister. Is the federal government, is Minister Peeters of the opinion that Minister Reynder's decision should be enforced, or is Minister Peeters of the opinion that he should maintain the position of current Flemish Prime Minister Bourgeois who is still maintaining the complaint to the Council of State? This is a detail, Mr Miller, but I would like to clarify this detail of this majority. Who is behind this government? Does she support the decision of Minister Reynders or does she support the decision of Prime Minister Peeters?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u137	Mr President, I agree with our colleague's excellent speech on the problem of Ebola. It is unacceptable that nothing has been done. I hope that, unlike his predecessor, Minister Vandeput will appear before the Health Committee. On the other hand, be assured, I understand the terms of the agreement. I think he's a very Atlantist. You explained to us that when you belong to a club, you have obligations to it. It all depends on the club we want to belong to. With the F-35s, it is clear that this is the Atlanticist club. Why not instead choose a European solution? Finally, Minister, you did not answer my question about the billings of certain assistance missions to the Nation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u138	Mr President, in my view, using the development cooperation budget to encourage investment by private companies, to combat immigration through a security policy - this is what is contained in your government agreement - is indeed, Mr De Croo, to use aid for development cooperation. This brings me to our questions about a series of points that are not reflected in the government agreement. You get through a pirouette saying that you can't make a comprehensive inventory of all possible conflicts, that foreign policy is moving. Once again, I hear you're coming back with the conflict issue. Indeed, in your view, development cooperation is aimed at going to war. As far as I am concerned, I would have liked this government agreement to refer to the fight against hunger, land grabbing, debt cancellation and vulture funds. Why is there a question here of conflicts that have occurred over the last fifteen days and on which you could not indicate anything in a government agreement? Secondly, I raised the question of Palestine. It seems to me that this is still a problem that has been on the international scene for a number of years. Explain to me why there is not a word on the subject in your government agreement when we are facing an extremely problematic situation! I do not see why you, in your agreement, would not be able to share with us your specific views and the policy that you intend to pursue in this context. Are you for or against a two-State solution? Would you like to find a solution to the blockade of Gaza? I don't see how you can't address these issues in your government agreement. Finally, Mr Ducrame, we have voted a resolution to resolve a dramatic situation in Iraq. We voted a resolution to send F-16s to Iraq. In that resolution, there was also a set of elements concerning the humanitarian assistance to be provided and the support to be provided in the coming years in order to ensure that that country recovered in the best possible way. I think that's what Mr. Van der Maelen wanted to insist. This is where the problem arises because, in your government agreement, you do not talk at any time about Iraq or the means that will be unlocked after the F-16 planes are sent.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u139	Mr President, as far as Ebola is concerned, we know that every three weeks the number of victims increases by two. If the epidemic is not stopped in countries where the disease has developed, the number of victims is dramatically increased, but the risks are also increased elsewhere. We are going to humanitarian, economic or wartime disasters, if conflicts develop. I really invite you to read the reports of the two Health Committees that have taken place on this subject. Here you will find the explanations that the Minister of Health has given us about why we are thinking about adapting the Military Hospital to make it a Type 4 hospital, not only for Ebola but for the different epidemics. And we know that the great health tragedies that will take place around the world will be the result of epidemics that we will not be able to control. The new Minister of Health said yesterday that there would be work to be done in concert on the subject. For Defence as such, what emerged in the second meeting, which we had with the European Commission's policy coordinators in Africa, particularly with regard to Ebola, was that it was necessary to have men and not necessarily money to help isolate the affected populations, that we had a laboratory that had returned from the Congo, a laboratory that was particularly specialized in combating this type of epidemic. So Defence could really play a role there both in helping to protect the population and in ensuring the direct care of our local health professionals and NGO workers in the event of an incident. The Health Committee will obviously invite you, but beyond that, it would be interesting to see what can be done given the speed with which the epidemic spreads.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u140	Mr President, Mr Van der Maelen, I would like you to explain to me how our F-16 Your group, the sp.a Group, together with the PS Group, has taken the guidance of the pilots out of the resolution. Our pilots must now fly with other nationalities, while they say that it is much safer for them to fly under the guidance of their own people. That too is boots on the ground, Mr Van der Maelen. Boots on the ground doesn't necessarily mean that our people are in the front line, but it also means command, control of the ground to keep the F-16s in the air in a safe way. Now I come back to your question about the committee meeting that I stopped. I am in favour of transparency and parliamentary control. I am also in favour of hearings, but on the basis of a document which is before us and not on the basis of a market survey which we do not officially have on our table, otherwise we will end up in some sort of palaver club of which I have experienced enough when I was a member of the Social Affairs Committee under the chairman of the committee Mayeur. I'll pass for that. That is why I requested that market research, and I will now have to ask again because another minister is competent. I would like to organise this debate whether or not it is behind closed doors. The new minister does not yet know that market research. It is now up to him to ask himself whether that market research can be released at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u141	Mr President, I would just like to say the following. Just now, the Secretary of Defense tried to cause a misunderstanding. The point of view of sp.a was, is and remains:no boots on the ground. Is it clear now?!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u142	There is a question in relation to the budget year that should be made in development assistance. The figures you cited are correct: 150 million in 2015, 279 million in 2019. It is true that three countries lose weight when we go from 18 to 15 countries. That's a fairly mathematical fact. That decision will be taken from a perspective of efficiency and synergies with other projects, for example with NGOs. The three countries that will fall out of our programme will be part of an exit route. This does not mean that we will suddenly stop everything. We will start a gradual exit to make sure that the impact of our decision is not too heavy. Mrs Grovonius, we interpret what you call "instrumentalization" differently. Nowhere do we say that development aid will be tied up. Nowhere do we say that our choices will be directly linked to industrial objectives in Belgium. It is true that, in the text, it is stated that development aid must be aimed at creating an environment in which people are given a perspective of the future. And we are convinced that if we succeed in building one in some countries, it avoids people putting their lives at risk to come here. That is correct. If, for you, it's instrumentalization, then our definitions differ enormously. We want to build a society in a country so that people have a future perspective, but for me this is not instrumentalisation at all. I'm trying to replace Didier Reynders with foreign affairs. However, this is not so simple, either in terms of content or style. It cannot be the ambition to have a topical debate here. A coalition agreement has the ambition to set lines for the next five years. These lines can be applied to a number of conflicts that we know are there today. In my view, however, it is not intended to have a topical debate on all existing conflicts in the context of the discussion of the coalition agreement. It talks about principles and objectives to be achieved, and not about a laundry list of all possible conflicts in the world. You're talking about Palestine. A European Council for Foreign Ministers will be held in Luxembourg next week. The intention will be to continue in a European perspective the efforts that our country has always made in the conflict. We are trying to get the reconstruction of Gaza started as soon as possible and we are calling for the resumption of negotiations as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u143	Mr President, I turn to the question of charging things that are being done. I don't know what the coalition agreement says, but I'm giving my personal opinion. If there are services offered by private companies and also by the military, it would not be a good system should those services be free of charge. Mrs. Gerkens, Ebola has been a problem for six months now. People are trying to prepare for this. However, the military cannot quickly equip the military hospital with a level four installation. That is a sign of great naivety.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u144	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Gerkens and Mr Van der Maelen before we conclude this chapter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u145	Mr.President, in order to be on the same wavelength, I did not say that we had to set up a type 4 hospital today or tomorrow. I said that the Supreme Council of Health could only see that possibility. It's not for today or this year. It was therefore requested that a study be carried out to examine the feasibility costs. What I am simply asking you is to take a look at this report and consider how we can deal with this request for unmet needs. But it is not required that you do it next month!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u146	Mr President, I have a question for Secretary of State De Crem, but the Prime Minister can also answer it, although I might rather ask Minister Peeters because he is the man who knows both sides of the story best.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u147	Mr Van der Maelen, we know your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u148	He can assess whether it is useful or desirable to put our exports and our economic diplomacy in trouble by this kind of legal hacking.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will of course answer the question. The answer is simple because the question was just as simple. Two appeals were indeed brought, one to the Council of State and the other to the Constitutional Court, concerning the appointment of economic advisers by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The government agreement states that we will await judicial decisions, the decision of the Council of State and that of the Constitutional Court. Then, depending on the decisions of the Council of State and the Constitutional Court, the Government, in consultation with the regional entities, will take a position. In the meantime, the designated economic advisers are in office.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u150	Mr President, Parliament always has the last word. Prime Minister, I would like to call on you and Mr Geert Bourgeois, Prime Minister of the Flemish Government, possibly with the assistance of Minister Peeters, to sit down together and find a solution to this problem with the necessary common sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing the last issue, in particular the Public Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, if some doubted, reading the Public Service component of the government agreement will suffice to convince them: This government does not like the state. Here I mean the term state not as a nation but as a structure. Jaurès said that "public service is the heritage of those who do not". With the measures that you propose, it is this common heritage that you take care of. Behind a verbose and unspecified agreement, what do we find? A central objective is to establish the private sector as a reference model, to ensure that productivity gains in the private sector are reflected within the civil service and, to this end, to put in place productivity indicators. Minister, what do you mean by that? Do you think the public service produces cans? That any work can be translated into numbers and outputs? Is the quality of service to the public not better than a quantitative approach? Public services are essential to ensure a fairer society and contribute to a quality of life for all citizens. With social security, they are powerful shock absorbers of the adverse consequences of economic and financial crises. They are also levers of competitiveness for the economy as a whole. And what do you want to do with it? It is true that quantitative is for you something essential. The first quantitative data you are attacking is the number of agents of the state. I am deeply concerned about the savings you will make in the functioning of the State. We are witnessing a real destruction of services to the community. Primary spending efforts are of unprecedented brutality: 1,081 billion in 2015 that became 2,320 billion in 2018, or 15% of the corresponding budget, including a 20% reduction in administrative operating costs in 2015. Then an additional 2% each year. How is it possible to reduce operating costs by one fifth in a year? A 22% decrease in investments in 2015 and an additional 2% each year! A 4% reduction in staff costs in 2015 and an additional 2% each year! Nothing will be spared! Will it be possible simply to pursue certain essential tasks of public services? Justice, police, consumer protection, regulation. You know, public services are police, nurses, judges, prison guards. The savings of the MR/N-VA government will degrade the functioning of the state and thus services to citizens. The decline in public services will inevitably increase household bills. In other words, outsourcing and thus de facto privatization of a number of State tasks can also be expected. In this regard, we look forward with great interest to your budget proposals. Reducing their numbers is not your only ambition towards government officials, it is also a question of attacking their status to align it with the private sector, as well as their treatment. Let me remind you that the status of the official is, first of all, the guarantee of his independence and the sustainability of the public service. The PS is certainly not opposed to public service modernization, efficiency and effectiveness. Nor is it a matter for me to oppose private and public, as you do. It is a question of ensuring that any reform is carried out in the direction of social progress in the workplace and of improving the functioning of our federal administrations. The real challenge is not "less public service", but "better public service". To be effective, civil servants, like all workers, must be able to evolve in an appropriate work environment, have career prospects and be involved in the change envisaged. In this regard, it is essential to support a constructive dialogue that guarantees lasting social peace. That is why I have great concerns about your willingness to support the model of social consultation in public services. You show great contempt for the servants of the state in this agreement. In several places, you even attack them in front of you. And, to top it all off, you want once again to review careers and salaries according to merit. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I did not expect a right-wing government to show tenderness towards public services, which are primarily services to the public. But we could have hoped for at least some respect for the servants of the State and for what is the basis of our model, namely social consultation. I would ask you to believe that we will pay particular attention to the implementation of this aspect of the agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u153	I congratulate Mrs Ben Hamou on her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u154	Mr President, I also wanted to congratulate our new colleague. She speaks well; she is intelligent and – I can afford it – she is pretty. However, I feel like I'm seeing Alice in Wonderland. I can sign all his comments, but this is the policy that is contrary to that of the Walloon Region. I'll take an example. In Flanders, about 70 per cent of the staff are appointed; in Wallonia, 30 per cent of the staff of the communes are appointed. Where is social progress? In Flanders or Wallonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u155	I thank you in advance for your statement. You may not expect it from someone from a cold, right-wing government; but I have a fairly large dose of empathy. I've moved a bit into your thinking world. I've been wondering how someone who still truly believes in a planned economy would deal today with the handled part of the coalition agreement. I can only say that what needs to be saved in the budget is a very great challenge for all those involved in primary expenditure. The reason for this is that your Prime Minister's government failed to implement the necessary structural reforms during the previous legislature. I may be mistaken, but I believe that 80% of your speech was about the institute and who works at the institute. On the other hand, I have heard little about the civil servants' clients, and that is what we are talking about in the end. When I was just talking about structural adjustments, I was mainly talking about budgetary, structural adjustments. Principles introduced by Mr Bogaert in the civil service such as performance, efficiency, innovation and customer service are at the heart of the forthcoming reform. Then we're talking about a performance-oriented reward. I can understand why you're having a hard time with that. But a lot of officials are doing their best and have to see that, even if they want to do their best, they are not rewarded for it. In this context, we are also talking about a career development that is not only age-related, but also depends on competences, among other things. Then we are also talking about creating synergies between different organisations that have to deal with a huge waterhead. We will go for this, but in consultation. The reform will have to be implemented from the bottom up. It is a great challenge, but I believe that we can move forward with people of good will from the civil service so that we can get the civil service into the 21st century.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u156	Mr President, poverty policy depends on how much income individual people have. It also largely depends on public services and their quality. What applies to people in poverty is true for people in general. I have heard many reactions from officials for the sake of clarity, federal officials who are doing their job very well, who are tired of it and find it little respectful what is being posted about them all. Mr Bogaert has made efforts in the previous government to make changes, in consultation and without many strikes. I meet highly skilled young people, with university graduates, who have chosen to make a career in the public service and do so in a number of ways from a number of values. They now often feel that they are said not to work, earn too much and perform nothing. That is something that needs to be taken into account in the future. Those people you will need very much in the future, you will have to learn to respect, especially because there will be too few people available in the labour market in the long term. The government must certainly ensure that young, qualitative and well-educated people are attracted. Remember that; that is thinking in the long term instead of being popular in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u157	Mr President, Mr Flahaux mentioned Alice's character in Wonderland. I very much fear that for a few years Torquemada was going to be the head of the public service. You're developing a manly language, all right. You scratch your predecessor, Mr Bogaert, who is part of the majority, I just want to point out. But believe me, we don't reform against civil servants. We reform through consultation. We'll have the opportunity to meet again and talk about it. You go straight into the wall, and horning.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u158	Mrs Onkelinx, you may say as much as you like in a moment. I would just like to ask Mrs De Coninck when she has heard me disrespectfully talk about the officials. My colleague next door can agree, what's on my page means respect. It's about consultation. It is in the coalition agreement and we are going to do the same. We're gonna have a meeting. That's the point, of course. We can go in consultation and let the partners decide where we are going. No, we say where we are going and we ask the partners to work out the best way to get there. So we are going to achieve the budgetary result and the structure that we need for public services in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, after more than 30 hours of debate, this is the end. However, we agreed that there would be a response from the Prime Minister at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u160	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all for this democratic debate and for the intensity of the discussions. I already had a chance to give a reply yesterday. Yesterday night and today we had the thematic debates with the Ministers' reactions to the comments and opinions of the various members of this assembly. I want to thank all parliamentarians, the majority and the opposition, for this democratic moment. I propose that you put to the vote the motion of confidence that I tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u161	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u162	I shall put this motion to the vote. I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? [[No]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote (Vote/vote 1) Yes 84 Yes No 58 No. Abstentions 1 Abstentions Total 143 Total The motion of confidence has been adopted. The motion of confidence was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-16-54-plenair-ip012x.u163	We must now take a decision on the draft agenda proposed by the Conference of Presidents. We must take a decision on the draft agenda proposed by the Conference of Presidents. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The proposal has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The proposal was adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 23 October 2014 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 23 October 2014, at 2.15 p.m.
