ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to inform you that, due to technical problems, the questions have not yet been distributed. For the sake of clarity, ladies and gentlemen, that has to do with machines that have failed and nothing else. Mr Calvo, you are asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u3	In the meantime, Mr President, I have been able to obtain a copy of the questions and the table has also been sent to us. That is why our surprise was when a question from our group was suddenly addressed to Minister Marghem, but that is not the only shift that has taken place. I'm declaring myself. Our group had tabled a question on climate change and the letter of formal notice that the government is facing. I wished to question the Prime Minister about this. This is a matter for his whole government and for general policy, in particular for a letter of formal notice to the entire federal government. I note that the Prime Minister is once again choosing to pass on a question to Minister Marghem. That's not the tradition. It is not the Prime Minister who draws up the agenda for this Parliament, but Parliament and the President of the Chamber. Mr President, I would ask you to address this question to the Prime Minister, as it was tabled by our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u4	Mr President, together with other colleagues, I asked the Prime Minister a question, which concerned some of his remarks. I note that the matter is referred to the Minister of the Interior. I don't understand it! Indeed, this runs counter to our democratic tradition. I therefore ask that the Prime Minister respond, and I ask you, in your capacity as Speaker of this House, the Speaker and the Majority and the Opposition, to enforce the rights of each Member of Parliament to address the Minister whom he or she designates.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u5	Mr. Chairman, I note that the table of issues that we have just received is not the same as the table that was circulated a moment ago among the members of the government. While several of us had asked the Prime Minister a question, some questions were removed. If the Prime Minister were not present and available, it would be understandable if he were on a mission abroad. Not only is the Prime Minister not abroad, but he is here, among us, physically in the assembly, and mentally, I hope so too. Totally, he says. It would be quite incomprehensible, surrealist even, if a Prime Minister suddenly became mute and could no longer speak here in the assembly; unless perhaps, Mr.Prime Minister, Mr.President, the Prime Minister prefers to reserve his answer to the President of the N-VA, who is not present physically, but who is perhaps the true Prime Minister! Mr President, I imagine you will explain here that you have changed your mind and that it is the Prime Minister, who is physically present, who will answer us.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u6	Mr. Chairman, the hide-and-seek part of the government is his problem. That ministers are mistaken and lying to each other and that the Prime Minister accepts it from week to week is his responsibility. But it is still the right of the opposition to question the Prime Minister about the consequences of these mutual lies within the government and the reality of its cohesion, as well as the fact that a government counts in its ranks someone who has links with the far right. Whether or not the Prime Minister likes it, it is still the right of the democratic opposition to highlight it and question it about it! The silence of the Prime Minister is more than complicity; it is acceptance. If he doesn't answer, he takes that choice. In this case, let him have all the democratic consequences! But the opposition does not have to be muzzled because, in the end, the Prime Minister has chosen an alliance that proves to be detrimental to the rule of law of our country!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you the following comments. First and foremost, since I came here, since 1987, so not only from this chair, but also from the other benches, I have known nothing but discussions about who needs to answer. Last week we had the opposite problem. Secondly, I am trying to look at the content of the questions, assuming that this is the case for everyone and that you are particularly interested in the answer and not who gives it. Thirdly, the government is of course one and indivisible. Having said that, I have dealt with the problems that have been encountered today. I have considered that the following line should be followed: if there is no reason to believe that the government would be divided on one issue or another, the Minister responsible must reply. If I could have the impression that the government is divided on one issue or another, the Prime Minister has to answer. That is why I asked the Prime Minister to answer Mrs Temmerman's question on Mrs Sleurs' policy and he replied to that question. In other cases, the relevant and competent ministers themselves will reply. Mr Calvo, I will give you the floor one last time, because we are not going to make this a procedural debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u8	Mr President, it is annoying. If the criterion were to be whether or not there is division within the government, the Prime Minister would have to answer a lot more questions about almost all issues in the meantime. Having said that, Mr President, it is also annoying that we keep having procedural debates. These are not the most interesting debates. This is, of course, due to the fact that the current majority and you, in your capacity as President of the Chamber, deal with the Rules of Procedure in a very arbitrary manner and with the traditions that are common in this Assembly. I'll establish that week after week. I can walk you through the past few weeks. The question of government divisions in the federal cultural institutions was addressed to the Prime Minister, who did not want to answer. Last week there was a question to Deputy Prime Minister Jambon, who was claimed by the Prime Minister. Today there are questions to the Prime Minister about Mr Jambon. Mr. Jambon has to answer. To a question of general order, about the letter of formal notice of the entire government, the Prime Minister does not want to answer. Mr Michel, Question Time is not your weekly press conference. You do not decide what is being asked in Parliament and who answers the questions. That is what we, all Members together, and you, Mr President, in your capacity as President of the Chamber, are doing. Mr President, I would therefore like once again to urge you to reconsider the matter. Otherwise, we, the opposition, are forced to ask for a suspension and to organise a Conference of Presidents. This arbitrariness must stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u9	Mr President, the question we are proposing to ask is not a question related to the exercise of Mr Jambon's ministerial powers. It deals with the very composition of the government, which is what the Prime Minister has more personal responsibility for. It is not a question of questioning the implementation of I do not know what decision the minister has taken, this question concerns the very conception of the composition of the government. So I don't see why the Prime Minister is running away from his responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u10	Mr President, obviously my point was in the same direction. The question here is how the work of Parliament is organised. There are obviously serious problems! Last time I asked Mr. Jambon a question, and you agreed to the Prime Minister's answer in his place. Today, I ask the Prime Minister a question about his government and you accept that he does not answer me! There is therefore a problem with how this Parliament is managed and how every parliamentarian is respected in his or her rights. So that we can agree without giving ourselves a show, I ask for a suspension of the meeting and the convening of the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u11	Mr President, we have been talking about procedure for 20 minutes while the Prime Minister is sitting by our side. If he had really wanted to answer that question, we would have already finished. Prime Minister, escaping this is your will, it is a reflection of everything except political courage. Mr President, I therefore join the request for an interruption of the sitting and the convening of a Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u12	Mr President, my speech will not make things easier. At 10.20 a.m., I will introduce my oral question to Mr. Jambon. At 10:28 a.m., the Legislative Secretariat is calling me to ask if I accept that my question be redirected to the Prime Minister. In the face of this tempting proposal, I reply to the Legislative Secretariat: "Of course, make yourself comfortable". Here I am now in plenary, and I see that everyone is being redirected to Mr Jambon. The government should know what it wants! So would it not be possible for every Member to choose who he or she wants to speak to?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u13	Mr President, I do not know whether the request for suspension will be maintained. If we ask for a suspension, we will, in principle, deal with it in a certain tradition. I must honestly tell you that I have been here for some time and it is the tradition of this House that the government determines who answers a question. This has always been so! I am surprised at the way in which this is now being dealt with with with a certain degree of flexibility. I am almost moved when I hear Mrs Onkelinx now protesting about the question of which minister will reply from the government. In the past, Mr Di Rupo said that he would answer himself when it came to him. However, he passed the question on to one of his ministers when it was less convenient for him. I have never heard Mrs Onkelinx protest against this. You mustn't scream. There's only the truth that hurts. This has always been so! The government is one and indivisible. The government in her lap makes out who answers. I note that it is now 14 p.m. 40, because at the beginning of Question Time this little Question Time is systematically undermined by the opposition. If you really have nothing better to do, Mr Calvo, if you really have nothing to say in substance and therefore always have to go back to procedural debates, then that is proof of the opposition's delay. Mr President, I would go against tradition. I shouldn't give you any advice, but I'd like to sit down and get up. I am asking the House to give its opinion on the immediate start of Question Time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u14	I shall put the request for suspension to the Chamber by means of a vote to sit and stand. (Mr Calvo continues to express his displeasure) Mr Calvo, everyone has had their say. I've listened to everyone. I suggest that the request for suspension... Mr Calvo, I put the request for suspension to the sitting. We're gonna vote on it when we sit down and get up. Anyone who supports the request for suspension must now stand up. No one?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u15	Mr Calvo, I call you to order the first time. I suggest that we move on to the agenda. The next item is a number of oral questions. No, Mr Calvo. We have had the debate. I have explained to you what the line is, and we will continue to do so. It is true what Mr Dewael said. I said this in the introduction: I have been in Parliament since 1987 and I have never known anything but that kind of discussion. The discussion is now settled. Mrs Onkelinx, I asked to vote on this suspension. I asked who supports the request for suspension. No one's risen. No one therefore supports this request. Let's move on to the order of the day. On the agenda, we have two questions on the recognition of Palestine.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u16	I therefore invite the Prime Minister to come and settle with us. Mrs Grovonius has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u17	What respect is that, Mr. President? What you do is truly dictatorial!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u18	No, ma'am. I am really sorry, but Mrs Grovonius has the floor. She's not coming? All right. Mr Hellings has the floor for his question. [[Tumult]] No question either? D'accord. No questions? The questions put by Mrs Grovonius and Mr Hellings are therefore dropped. I give the floor to Mr Vanvelthoven for his question on the cash threshold. Mr Calvo, we are not going to put on any numbers here. I've got a line, I've explained that line, and it will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u19	Mr Vanvelthoven, your question lapses? Mr Vanvelthoven does not come here. If the questions are not put to Mr Michel, we shall... (Interruption by Mr Calvo) Mr Calvo, you do not have the floor. I can't be any clearer, can I? Anyway, I'll give you the floor to try again.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u20	Mr President, you are also aware that this is the worst picture you can give of Parliament. And why? We love substantive debates. We could ask ten questions today. Two things, Mr Dewael, it is not customary, and you know it, there are always discussions...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u21	Mr Calvo, that discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u22	I have also experienced these discussions during the previous legislature, but we have never seen the arbitrariness we see today. Second point...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u23	Mr Calvo, I am taking the floor. Shut down Mr Calvo's micro. I ask Mr Vanvelthoven to ask his question about... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u24	Then the questions were asked for the Prime Minister. The next item is questions for Mr Peeters. Mrs Kitir, you have the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u25	Mr President, my question was about social dialogue and the way in which the majority maintains social dialogue, but the way in which you now use it says a lot about social dialogue and how you and the majority respect social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u26	Mrs. Kitir, you're making very quick steps now. You may ask your question; if you do not, so be it. Mrs Kitir's question lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u27	I knew we were the only right-wing opposition in this hemisphere and the only opposition here. Mr President, Minister, Farid Bamouhammad, better known as Farid le Fou, was released as a result of his hunger strike after a bourgeois judge imposed it on one side. That judge did that by only listening to the prisoner's clock without hearing other parties, which is actually a serious professional error. The true madman is not Farid le Fou in my view, but he is the judge who came to this insane decision. The fact that a professional criminal convicted of manslaughter, attempted murder, hostage-taking and so on is released in these circumstances not only undermines the credibility of justice but also creates a dangerous and important precedent. Minister None has logically already opposed this decision. I wonder what's keeping him from prosecuting the judge on the basis of a serious mistake. Judges shall be externally liable in the event of serious professional errors. The fact that an unruly prisoner is released for medical reasons through a civil court procedure is unseen. This is because it circumvents the law on the execution of penalties. I therefore come to my specific question. Is it prepared to amend the law so that the criminal court cannot be set aside and so that such situations are avoided in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u28	Mr President, Minister, Farid le Fou is not unknown; we have heard a lot about him. He's supposed to be in jail until 2026. He's been around for 28 years and he's got a lot to go. He's already been released twice. In 1999 he took family hostage, and also during his penitentiary leave in 2005 he took family hostage. So we know what a release can do to that man. He's now on hunger strike because his euthanasia request was rejected. The European Court has ruled that he should go to a hospital because he is weakened, although under surveillance. Apparently that was not enough and a civil court procedure was also launched. For this we have nice procedures, with guarantees for society, in which the victims are heard, as well as the prosecutor's office and the prison director. However, these proceedings were not followed; they simply made a unilateral application to a civil court. And what was the judge's verdict? That surveillance is detrimental to Mr. Farid Bammouhamad's recovery. Is guarding someone who's in jail hurt for the cure? Even as a lawyer, I don't understand this, and I'm certainly not the only one. This is totally weird. The person concerned is an unruly prisoner, who has been transferred 70 times. In short, it is a problematic case. Mr Minister, I come to my questions. How free is this guy anyway? Can he fire himself from the hospital? One can indeed do that. Does that mean that once he's strengthened, he can simply step out? Is he that free? He's already complaining that he can't smoke in the hospital, so he's already that strong. Is he gonna be this strong to walk out soon? Can we do all that? What can be done about this, in addition to the opposition that has already been expressed? After all, it remains to be seen whether the resistance is due before the man is sufficiently strengthened. And then it is to be hoped that the judge on appeal will reject the decision taken. Do you also have a plan B in case that man, after appeal, would still remain free? In terms of precedent, this can count. The door is now open to go on hunger strike and then go to a civil court. Then there is no procedure and the victims and society are forgotten. This is definitely dangerous. Will you intervene legally to prevent such matters from being repeated in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would of course have liked to answer the questions on social dialogue, but we will do so for the next time. I hope that nobody makes it a problem for me to replace my colleague, Mr Geens, because he is unable to do so. I shall now read very carefully the answers to the questions put by Mrs Pas and Mrs De Wit. My colleague says that he has followed that dossier on a daily basis since he was appointed, particularly as regards the medical condition of the person concerned. On 27 November, he refused to reply to the request for a provisional release for medical reasons, for safety reasons. In that decision, my colleague also stated that the transfer of the person concerned to a hospital outside the prison was possible subject to the necessary surveillance. That decision was in line with a subsequent recommendation of the European Court of Justice of 28 November, where the person concerned still has a case pending. On Saturday 29 November, the person concerned was effectively transferred to a civilian hospital, where the security was ensured and therefore safety. According to the law, that section of that civilian hospital was given the status of a prison by-law. On Sunday 30 November, the President of the Court of First Instance in Liège decided on a unilateral application that the person concerned was provisionally exempted for medical reasons. The court did not attach any condition or time limit to that exemption. My colleague, who had to execute that court order as a competent minister, has of course done the same. The person concerned then went to the civilian hospital of his choice without surveillance. Minister Geens immediately decided to file third-party proceedings through a lawyer of the Belgian State. This appeal shall not suspend the judgment of the court and the first hearing of the third party proceedings shall take place on 9 December. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the following point, because we have been asked to do so. What legislative initiative will be possible? My colleague said on this point that he will examine whether the provisions concerning the provisional release for medical reasons can be implemented in the 2006 law on the external legal status of convicted persons, since these provisions offer more guarantees both in substance and in procedure. That was the answer that my colleague Geens gave me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u30	Mr Minister, I will save your colleague some research work, because we have already put forward a legislative proposal this week to ensure that the civil courts in these cases can no longer decide, but that the criminal courts judge on such matters, where the victims and the public prosecutors are also heard and not just the inmate, the criminal themselves. I hope and count on the support of all of you to avoid such situations in the future, because the right to security, the protection of citizens from madness like Farid le Fou, must be the main priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u31	Minister, I really hope that there is a plan B alongside the resistance, because the last thing we need is for this man to walk out the door and threaten his family again. In addition, others might take an example. Justice is already having such a hard time today, and this again damages its frail reputation. We cannot afford that. A legislative initiative to avoid this in the future is really necessary. We must also pursue a disciplinary procedure and examine the way in which certain decisions are taken, because such a situation is unworldly and totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u32	The next item is a number of questions for Mr Jambon. Mrs Onkelinx, Mr Maingain and Mr Hedebouw are not here. But it's Mrs. Fonck. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u33	Mr President, I would like to refer to Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, which provides that a minister may be requested to be present on the basis of a written request. Together with my colleagues Laurette Onkelinx and Olivier Maingain, I therefore make this request, which I present to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u34	Ik heb een verzoek gekregen, dat ik nu probeer te ontcijferen:"On the basis of Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, the undersigned demand the presence of the Prime Minister." This application is signed by Ms. Fonck, Ms. Onkelinx and Mr. Maingain. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I shall refer that to the sitting. Since the application has been declared admissible, the question is who supports the application. I propose that we take a stand on this request. I suggest you join us and stand up and say something about the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u35	The next item is Mr Tim Vandenput's question on more green in the street.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u36	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u37	Excuse me, Mrs. Fonck, I didn't see him! You want the floor. You are absolutely right on that point. With my apologies, Mr Vandenput, Mrs Fonck has the floor for her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that I am ashamed of our democracy! Prime Minister, we stayed here because we wanted to give you a chance to assume your responsibilities by coming here to answer the question. That's not the case! The majority as a whole wiped away the fact that the Prime Minister responded. I will therefore ask absolutely no question and therefore will not wait for an answer from the Minister of the Interior. On the other hand, I will take advantage of my speaking time. In essence, what you are sweeping with a back of your hand is the participation of a vice-first in the government, vice-first of the N-VA, Minister of the Interior, in an extreme right-wing debate club that he led for five years. Besides, what you're sweeping with a back of your hand is that this Deputy Prime Minister lied. He revisited the story. It is not just a question of majority or opposition. No, it's not! It's a question of democracy! Therefore, the silence of the Prime Minister obviously supports the facts that are revealed today. The silence of the Prime Minister shows that having had close copinages with the far right does not pose a problem in leading Belgium. The silence of the Prime Minister shows that having money with the far right is not a problem for the government of this country. In which country, in which other country, could a minister of the interior have lied about his sympathies with the extreme right while remaining in the government? In conclusion, I cannot help but ask our colleagues in the MR a question of principle. Where is the time, when the MR and its principal leaders – I am referring to Louis Michel – where is this time when Louis Michel protested against the comments made in Austria by Jörg Haider about Belgium? You've obviously completely forgotten this time and you're trivializing things that are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I simply note that Mrs Fonck did not ask me a question. However, I had prepared an answer for the four speakers, but since I was not asked a question, I cannot answer. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u40	No reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u41	Minister, you know that our party realized more blue on the street at the time. Today I ask whether there will be more greenery on the streets. I had to establish that there is more Green in the Wetstraat today! On the street. That, however, is not the case. Minister, you are the Prime Minister of Security in the history of Belgium. You and I are mayor and we both know that an integral security policy begins with the district agent and ends with the detection of international terrorism and terrorist threats. In a newspaper article this week, I was able to read that you and your colleague from the Defense Department are investigating the possibility of using the military for a number of police assignments in the street. We were told that you want to do so in a pragmatic way. The Secretary of State for Defence confirmed that in committee yesterday. Belgium is a country with a lot of policemen. We have 3.7 policemen per 1,000 inhabitants. That figure is at the highest in Europe. In Germany there are 3, in the Netherlands 2.2. There is also a protocol between the army and the police today, "Help to the nation." It lays down a number of arrangements, including assistance from the military in the framework of European and international organisations and summits, as well as in the event of disasters. I can understand why you find it interesting to identify a number of places where the military might best be deployed. Mr Minister, I have a few specific questions about this. Firstly, is the protocol "Help to the nation" already being used today to deploy the army at European summits? Secondly, what tasks and tasks could the army actually take over from the police? Thirdly, is it your intention to evaluate and possibly extend the existing protocol or will you take other initiatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u42	Mr President, Mr Vandenput, what I announced in the press is to implement the coalition agreement that we adopted together. Let me quote from the coalition agreement: "In the event of an increased general level of threat, we mean from level 3 and you know that the scale goes up to level 4 "After the advice of the National Security Council, the government can take the decision to temporarily deploy the army to assist the police and security forces for certain security orders, if necessary at the request of a mayor. We're only talking about security orders. To this end, synergies shall be developed in cooperation with the police forces, including with a view to the necessary framework and training. I will answer your precise questions. The existing protocol was invoked once, to my knowledge, when there was the threat of the CCC of Cellules Communists Combatantes. That is not the case for the European summits. Last week there was a meeting with the police. We will have the core task debate within the police first. With that conclusion, we come to the government to have it consolidated. I can imagine in that debate a number of tasks will no longer be done, some other tasks may be done by the private sector, and in exceptional circumstances, as described in the coalition agreement, Defence can also be involved with people trained to do so. This is clearly required. Let's face it, our people from the Defense Department are carrying out security orders today at Kabul airport in Afghanistan. Why should we not be able to use them here, in exceptional circumstances? That is the spirit of the coalition agreement and in that spirit we will try to implement it. Where appropriate, the Protocol will be amended as regards those modalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for the very good clarifications. I am glad that everything will fit in with the core tasks debate of the police and of the Defense Department. In every police area, in every Kerkstraat and village street of Flanders and Wallonia, the police are not meant to be replaced by the army. During Christmas shopping, hopefully we will not clash with an armed military. We look forward to the core task debate and will participate actively in it. I suggest you include the local chiefs and possibly the mayors.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u44	Thank you, Mr Vandenput. I congratulate you on your maiden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, we normally respect the order of the government. However, Mrs Marghem has asked for personal reasons whether she can lead the way. I have no objection to that. If no one has any objections, including within the government, and does not go outside, otherwise we really have a problem, then I would ask Mrs Marghem to come to the chair to answer Mr Calvo's question. However, Mr Calvo is not here. Madam Secretary, I should like to thank you for the answer you have not given.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u46	Mr President, very briefly, I would like to say that the Reform Movement is of the opinion that the policy of the empty chair is not good. I believe that this policy alters democracy. Like any democrat, we are ardent defenders of minority rights. However, the organisation of work in a parliament cannot be imposed by a form of minority dictatorship! It was extremely common for Prime Minister Di Rupo to delegate a number of responses to be given by his ministers on Thursday. That was not worth the incident. We would have preferred the debate to continue. We often disagree on procedural issues. It is not because the Socialist Party is no longer in government that it must also leave parliament! Minister, I have a brief question that will not be able to deal with some of their own contradictions since they are absent. There is not a day that has passed since last week without us being surprised by what I would name the lack of sobriety at the head of our public companies in the last legislature. Do you confirm that a senior official of Dexia has been appointed at the level of the bpost steering committee? This appointment would have taken place in June when the appropriate minister was Mr. Labelle. I know you won't be able to confirm the figures that are quoted by L'Echo today, but we're talking about 500,000 euros a year when he's not CEO.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u47	Mr. Ducrame, as you said, bpost is a publicly traded company. Therefore, providing such information must always be done in a fair manner vis-à-vis all shareholders. Therefore, information cannot be communicated only to the majority shareholder. In addition, bpost is used to providing information in its annual report - which is usually published in March. What are the public data? I therefore answer your question: bpost pointed out on June 6th that Marc Huybrechts was going to take office on September 1st as Director of Mail & Retail Solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u48	Minister, thank you for confirming some of the information that was released this morning in L'Echo. This may bring to light a form of duplicity on the part of some in the light of a debate that was initiated by them last week. We will, of course, be waiting for the report to be published next March to be aware of this duplicity. On the other hand, the Reform Movement expects you – also based on the message sent by the Prime Minister last week – whether this call for sobriety in public companies, whether or not they are listed on the stock exchange, is heard and satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u49	Minister, there was still the question of Mrs Vanessa Matz. But, of course, she's not here. I thank you for your presence.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u50	Minister, this is the first time I have asked a question here. I had hoped that there would be more people here, because I believe that there is a very broad and broad consensus in Parliament on this issue, including in the regional parliaments, in the Flemish Parliament, because it is about the dislocated zones. In October 2012, we were all confronted with the announcement of the closure of Ford Genk. Politics, however modest the role of politics is and can be in this, has not ignored the announcement. The federal government, together with the regional government, I remember that image and the words that were spoken at that time said that they would look shoulder-to-shoulder at what solutions were possible. One of the answers was the Strategic Action Plan Limburg in the Quadrate. The task force will meet again tomorrow to discuss progress. An answer we gave here in Parliament in the Competitiveness Act was the concept of the disrupted zones. The Flemish Government has coloured in the aid map and has now also defined the assisted areas. It is now awaiting a cooperation agreement that allows an additional reduction in the corporate tax to be made on top of what the federal government has already decided. In this way one can offer an answer not only for Limburg but also for the Kempen, where a similar initiative was taken, to the many closures there. Mr. Secretary, all the pieces of the puzzle are almost finished. The final piece of the puzzle that still has to be done is the cooperation agreement. In this way, additional investment in these regions can be encouraged. The closure will take place today in two weeks, which will have an impact that no one will underestimate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u51	Thank you, Mr Beke, for your question on this acute issue. I would also remind you that the subject was discussed in detail in the Finance Committee on 19 November. Questions were asked by your colleague Mr Smaers and Mr Terwingen. The previous elections and the period prior to the formation of the government have delayed the operation of the aid measure. The administration has used that period and has not been idle in preparing the negotiations on the conclusion of the necessary cooperation agreements in a proper way. You know that a number of legal questions have also been raised, including by the Council of State. The preparations are almost complete today and the administration of finance will issue a new draft cooperation agreement by the end of the week. After the government has given its opinion on that draft cooperation agreement and has defined and refined the negotiating mandate, the talks with the regions wishing to conclude a cooperation agreement will start immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You said that the draft cooperation agreement will come into force today or tomorrow, and negotiations with the regions will begin. I hope that we will be able to deal with this very quickly so that the dossier can be completed successfully. On 18 December, Ford Genk will be closed down. I believe it is essential that the federal government and the regional authorities can deliver on their promise to provide shoulder-to-shoulder responses to the closure and that they can offer new prospects for the workers who lose or threaten to lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u53	Mr President, I was going to ask the Prime Minister a question, but I am very pleased that Minister Van Overtveldt has come to answer me. He is doing an excellent job and I think I can certainly expect him to give the Prime Minister the answer. I also expected the opposition to ask a series of questions, because the European Commission's opinion was a second sitting, an insufficient one. We have had to hear the interpretation of the opposition throughout the weekend, but when we look at that report, Minister, we see that we are not in the excessive deficit procedure. There is a risk that we will deviate slightly from the objectives in the following years, but the Commission is quite clear that these derogations are not significant, that the medium-term objective for the structural deficit is 0.6% and that we are 0.4%. However, there is a bigger problem with the debt ratio. How are we supposed to look at that in the next few years? The Commission invites the authorities to take the necessary measures to ensure that the 2015 budget complies with the Stability Pact. My question is: you have already discussed it in committee, how the government evaluates that opinion. Does it intend to adopt new measures by March 2015? Is it necessary to adjust the 2015 budget? I believe that Parliament has the right, after the statement by the European Commission and after the opposition comments in the media, to the correct interpretation of the European Commission's opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u54	Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy, some of the analysis has already been included in your question. In my reply, first of all, I would like to emphasise that there are some misunderstandings about the reporting of the European Commission. It is not just about one report, it is about three reports, in which not only the specific budget heading is assessed. It also provides a more global assessment of everything related to the budget. Having said that, I would like to respond to four points. A few things have already been mentioned by the questioner, Mr Van Rompuy, himself. With regard to the budgetary route up to 2018, the European Commission broadly notes that we are where we should be. There is a whole debate on the definitions of the nominal budget deficit and the structural budget deficit. The way in which they are calculated and what is and is not taken into account also plays a role. So, on the basis of the forecasts that are on the table in Belgium today, we are more or less in order. Secondly, nowhere in the European Commission's report does it consider additional measures to adjust the budget to be necessary. Thirdly, the European Commission is making it clear that I would once again ask everyone to look at the three reports submitted by the European Commission on this subject, and to report very positively on the structural measures taken by the government, particularly in terms of competitiveness, the labour market and pensions. Fourthly, there is the famous debt rule, the debt evolution that the whole discussion is about today. As we come out of an excess deficit procedure, we do not do what the rules prescribe. You know, of course, that the European Commission will make a new assessment by March 2015. In the discussions we are going to have with the European Commission, the debate on a sound and sound interpretation of the debt rule will be central. Mr President, you were there, of course, when we heard clearly in the Finance Committee of the people of the European Commission who presented their report, that two elements are very important in assessing where a country is going with its fault. Firstly, in a period of low growth and low inflation, the adjustment of a debt ratio is rather difficult, a fact that the European Commission now recognises. Secondly, the Commission is clearly prepared to include structural measures, which will only work in the long term, in the shorter term. Above all, it is important to clarify our coalition agreement with the European Commission. That seems to me to be the step we must take. Mr President, I think I have answered Mr Van Rompuy's question and given Parliament the explanation to which it is entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think that report is very important. Next week we will be discussing the budget. The European Commission says that we are on the right track to reduce the structural deficit and that, with the exception of 0,1%, we can follow the path. A second thing is that the debt ratio has to go down. That is why I would like to point out the following. I read in the press and I hear from the opposition that a lower debt ratio can only be achieved through the sale of public companies such as Belfius and Belgacom. However, the European Commission tells us that we must continue to pursue the path of structural savings in pensions, in unemployment and in public administration, because in the long term this is the best way to bring the debt ratio down. I think that's the big lesson from that report.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u56	Minister, my party stands for free enterprise. Freedom of enterprise is important to us. This was laid down in the famous Decree of 1791. It stipulates that everyone has the right to choose the profession or craft they wish to pursue at their discretion. I am concerned because the latest trend is to impose local taxes on start-ups. Proposals are circulating to impose up to EUR 7 500 on certain self-employed persons who wish to start a business in the first year. That's a lot. That's way too much. Let us be honest, in this way we make entrepreneurship difficult. The profit margins are being creamed and the self-employed are actually being told not to start. This can be so daunting that a case cannot be started. Moreover, it bothers me that certain taxes are presented in a negative atmosphere. For example, we are talking about self-employed people who have been affected by the phenomenon of self-employment, whereas I believe that any form of entrepreneurship should be encouraged. When new Belgians open a case, that is precisely the answer to a question that we often ask in Parliament, namely how we can give people opportunities and how we can convince them to seize those opportunities. In short, Minister, my question is simple. How do you feel about taxes like that? Do you think they're correct? Don't you think they can be discriminatory?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u57	Mr Van Quickenborne, I have indeed taken note of the decision of the city of Antwerp to introduce an opening fee of EUR 6 000 for night shops. As regards the imposition of an opening fee and an annual tax, I refer to a letter of 10 June 2011 on the coordination of teachings on municipal taxation. In that letter, Minister Geert Bourgeois gave a recommendation on the rate of tax on night and telephone shops. That recommendation reads: "The opening tax on night shops and telephone shops should not exceed EUR 6 000. The annual tax may not exceed EUR 1 500." The city of Antwerp has chosen to impose the maximum rate. It therefore concerns the implementation of a measure that was already made possible in 2011. As the Federal Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, I am not authorized to judge the opportunity of such a tax. This belongs to the competence of my fellow Members in the Flemish Government and in the city of Antwerp. On the other hand, within the framework of my powers, I am prepared to consider support measures for the conservation and development of trade in urban centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u58	Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply. As mayor of a city centre, I realize that there may be some inconvenience caused by certain things. The question is whether this is solved by imposing taxes, especially if they seem excessive. I think there are other instruments and I am thinking here of the effective action of the police, the installation of security cameras, and certainly the possible implementation of a dispersal plan. I think these are better measures than a road tax that makes such entrepreneurship impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the balances will start on Saturday, 3 January. Until then, clothing businesses, including leather goods and footwear, cannot announce price reductions on single items; in addition, lost sales are prohibited due to the waiting period. Until last year, this waiting period began on 6 December while the reference period began on 1 December. Both periods were merged following a request from the sector. In the coming weeks, however, traders may make discounts at the cashier's or at the customer's request. They may also display discounts when they relate to more than one item; they are then considered joint offers. However, it would appear that there is still some uncertainty in what is permitted or not with regard to the announcement of these reductions. Minister, can you shed some light on the remaining equivocals with regard to the announcement of the reductions? Have you heard the sector and its various representative organizations about the concerns expressed? What are the solutions you are advocating in order to prevent traders from being punished because of a misinterpretation of what is allowed in this regard? Mr Minister, like me, you know that autumn has been mild, that stocks are therefore quite large in these various businesses and that the turnover has not been up to expectations. I therefore hope that you will be able to clarify this matter. This sector should not be punished, but better informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed an issue which is fully relevant because we are at the very heart of the period in question. In this regard, a number of clarifications need to be made. As you pointed out, the pre-balance period has been aligned with the reference period. There is therefore a period of one month before the beginning of the balances which is constituted by that period during which, with exceptions, price reduction announcements are prohibited. Among the exceptions are, as you mentioned, joint offers where, in view of the purchase of several items, you can benefit from a discount. It should be pointed out that a court decision was taken. It is due to the Court of Justice of the European Union, which delivered a judgment on 10 July 2014 in which it condemned the Belgian provisions on price reduction announcements. There is therefore a mechanism that has been updated through Book VI of the Code of Economic Law, which has been undermined by this decision of the Court of Justice. We are therefore in a period of uncertainty. In a few words, the Court of Justice held that it was not for a Member State to define the law and protection of consumer law differently than the European authorities had provided for. Therefore, legal and regulatory adjustment must be carried out, since today a person who would challenge or carry out balances, outside of our rules, could invoke this decision of the European Court of Justice. We have therefore started consultations, in particular with the Union des Classes Moyennes, so that we can respond well to this element of uncertainty, as well as with the professional federations. In the meantime, we have asked that a contact be made between the administration and the Inspectorate to avoid a situation where things are finally going in all directions. Let us therefore consider at this stage that, provisionally, the current provisions continue to apply, which we also have contact with in order to adapt the law. This law will have to take account of European interpretations and therefore reformat differently, rewrite otherwise, this period of one month before the balances.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u61	Minister, thank you for this information. A period of uncertainty is never good for the sector. As you said, there will be a legal adaptation to start. I think you're going to do it. Parliament will be able to respond positively to this legal adaptation. I also believe that consultation with the sector in order to keep it well informed is essential. Thank you for the clarifications given to the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u62	We congratulate you on your Mayden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u63	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that, as a newcomer to the Chamber, I am a little surprised and disappointed that the opposition apparently deals mainly with procedural issues and is much less interested in a number of very interesting points of substance, such as the situation of persons with disabilities. Madam Secretary of State, yesterday, 3 December, was the international day for people with disabilities. Unfortunately, we couldn't really speak of a holiday. Indeed, a Eurostat study has been proposed which shows that only 47% of people with disabilities in the European Union are in employment, whereas 67% of the general population are in employment. In itself, that is regrettable, but not entirely unexpected. What raises questions is that Belgium scores so badly in that international benchmark and that in our country only four out of ten people with disabilities are active in the primary labour market. Unfortunately, the Eurostat study did not tell us anything new. After all, Belgium had already been assessed very negatively by the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, because we have a serious under-representation of people with disabilities in the regular labour market. The reason why our country scores so badly has absolutely nothing to do with the fact that people with disabilities do not want to work with us or do not have the necessary skills. The problem is that in our country a number of essential framework conditions and policy frameworks are lacking. For example, people with disabilities have no basis for falling back when they take the courageous step towards the labour market and then find that it is not working. There is far too little investment in reintegration measures. It is a dangerous illusion to think that all of this will happen on its own. Madam Secretary of State, hence my questions. Will you specifically ensure that this group gets more opportunities in the labour market? Do you intend finally to do something about the questioning that was held in the previous legislature? So far, nothing has been done about it. Will you finally work on modernising the famous law of 27 February 1987?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u64	Mr President, Mr Spoorten, Eurostat's figures are indeed very frightening. They are totally unacceptable to the government. I recently presented my policy paper. As you know, we are going to take heavy action. However, the approach will be completely different from what we have known so far. The first reason for this is that we will look at the person with a disability differently. We will look at what man can do, and not at what he can no longer do. As you know, the whole circuit of disability and work disability is often viewed from the point of view that the labour market is closed to people with disabilities. We want to completely reverse that approach. We want to move towards social inclusion and through a multidisciplinary approach also towards more tailor-made employment. That is a first element that we are taking a different approach. In addition, as you say, we must avoid inactivity traps. If a person with a disability is now taking the step to work, he is usually worse off. We must avoid that. I will therefore examine this with the honourable Members concerned and do so quickly. Finally, a great deal of work has already been done on the 1987 law in the past legislature by the people on the field. In practice, however, nothing has ever happened to it. It is one of my priorities to implement all the recommendations in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u65	Madam Secretary of State, I am pleased that there are many concrete measures in place. So we can be hopeful that real progress will be made for the vulnerable group of people with disabilities. We must not underestimate the importance of work for that target group. There is the financial aspect: by working they can make real choices and organise their lives. There is also the non-financial aspect: a contact network is being built. Social inclusion is very closely linked to work. You have a lot of powers in your portfolio, but I hope you will concentrate enough on people with disabilities, so that Belgium will score better if we have another benchmark.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u66	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft programme law, No. 672/1. The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of Bill 672/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u67	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In line with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 December 2014, I also propose that you consider: - the draft legislation of Mr Peter Vanvelthoven and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mrs Karin Temmerman and Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Dirk Van der Maelen amending the Income Tax Code 1992 as regards the tax system for legal constructions (No. 679/1);
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u68	- the draft law of Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Egbert Lachaert and Mr Raf Terwingen laying down various provisions on justice (No. 683/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u69	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 December 2014, I also propose that you take into account - the bill of Messrs. Peter Vanvelthoven and Ahmed Laaouej, Ms Karin Temmerman and Messrs. Stéphane Crusnière and Dirk Van der Maelen amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to the system of taxation of legal constructions (No 679/1);
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u70	- the bill by Mrs Sonja Becq and Messrs. Egbert Lachaert and Raf Terwingen with various provisions on justice (No. 683/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u71	Are you sure you don't mind? (No) It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u72	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 683.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u73	Mr Verherstraeten called for urgency on this proposal. Who supports his request for urgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-04-54-plenair-ip018x.u74	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 11 December 2014. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 11 December 2014. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 11 December 2014, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 11 December 2014 at 2.15 p.m.
