ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u2	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u3	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, a discussion of a budget is a very important moment. That is a priori when we discuss the first budget of a new government because it outlines the first outlines and carries out and implements the first measures of those plans in the government agreement. I've heard fascinating debates. I would almost say that everything has been said. Everything has been said during the government statement, everything has been said during the subsequent media debates, everything has been said in detail in the various committees, in particular in the Finance Committee. In the years I've been here, I've learned one thing. Budgetary debates have never been completed definitively. There are economic shocks, sometimes for the better, sometimes for the worse, there is the international context and the international situation, there are important social events in or outside our country that give rise to a constant re-updating of a budget debate. However, there is also a constant and that is the dividing line between majority and opposition. Mr Onkelinx, I am always listening to you with attention, and of course I did so this morning. I found your statement a good example of the dividing line between majority and opposition, and that did not surprise me. When I heard what our colleague said, it reminded me of the speech made by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance at the start of the first budget negotiations of the Di Rupo Government. He's here. I quote what he said in February 2012: "The budget before us today is a budget that we call unbalanced. This government is actually only thinking about saving, saving hard. In line with what Europe is doing. She forgets that the bill is very often forwarded to the middle class and especially to the lowest incomes. In the meantime, those who caused the crisis remain safe and sound. They do not have to turn in. Those were the words of the opposition in February 2012. When I heard the argument of the opposition earlier, I had the impression that it was a copy: one category had to turn in, the others were completely spared.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u4	Mr Verherstraeten, whom I always listen with great pleasure and attention, compares the words of two speeches, but not the policies of two successive governments. Yes or no, have we not tried, in the last government, where your party was present, to charge those who had the widest shoulders to make the immense effort that we had to make? Yes or no, haven't we been looking for $7 billion to balance the budget? Is it not a major difference with this government that preserves shareholders and capital and, on the other hand, makes much greater savings on public services? You question certain public services. You should have been there to listen to your Minister of Justice, as he was suffering by detailing the budget cuts in his own budget. You will seek from the workers, including the index jump, without at all having, for example, a compensation by the gains-values. For me, even if there were gains, you don't have to jump index, let's be clear. Don't just say that there are similar words in opposition speeches. You'll always be right! Try to compare the policies developed by two successive governments with major differences!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u5	Mr Onkelinx, you know that no one will blame me for never losing what the previous government has done. At that time, the government faced important challenges and took important measures that have been good for our country. This applies to the whole of the government at the time. Some aren't in it anymore and others are still in it. I don't look back on that with shame. It is not, however, Mr Onkelinx, that the opposition's reply to measures taken by a government, and in this case by a new government, is always similar. That is not the case. Today, however, that is the case, as I have heard, and I would be surprised if the other colleagues from the opposition, who are going to be given the floor, made other noises than what they have shown in the various committees. I note, therefore, that the criticism received by the previous government is, in fact, almost the same as the criticism received by the current government. I do not think that is a coincidence, and I shall come back to that in a moment. That is not a coincidence because many measures are similar. This morning, you said that there is huge savings in primary expenditure. We are indeed saving heavily on primary expenditure. I won't deny that. However, if we take the budgetary figures for the past few years, we can see that the previous government has also seriously saved on primary expenditure, but not so much. The figures are what they are: 1.3 billion under the previous government and 2.2 billion under the current budget. So there is a marked difference, but there was also an important saving at that time, including in the area of primary expenditure, which you referred to earlier. Why is it not by chance, ladies and gentlemen, that the opposition's criticism is similar to the criticism of the previous government? Mr Onkelinx, that is because, together with the colleagues from the sp.a and with us, who are still in the majority, you agreed that the wage burden had to be reduced in order to achieve the necessary competitiveness for our companies. We have also done this for EUR 750 million with the previous government. You agreed to save money to reduce deficits, not to pass the invoices on to future generations. You agreed to reform pensions and postpone early retirement in order to safeguard future pensions. Then you all defended those measures that we are now simply continuing. That is why the criticism of the opposition is actually just copy fit and is the same without a hitch.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u6	Mr President, let us be serious: I have never, in any of my speeches, spoken in any debate, of the expression "there is only to". Never. I know that, in order to clear the deficit, it is necessary to make sometimes difficult decisions. When you say I agree with one measure or the other, of course! I know why we did it. When you talk about the opposition, I understand the criticism of Ecolo-Groen who said at the time that it was hard. Yes, I understand that kind of criticism. But the criticism of the N-VA was not at all the same: this party criticized the fact that, in order to rebalance the deficit, we were looking for solutions on the side of capital. For example, we remember how they yelled at the liquidation bonus, the exchange transaction tax, etc. Constantly. They screamed when we introduced the famous 309. This is a completely different opposition speech! What I'm blaming you for right now is to put you in line with what the N-VA wants. In fact, it is in your own party that not the greatest criticisms, but the greatest malaise, appear, because it favours this capital; yet it should participate in the balance of our budget and help to get our country out of the current difficulties. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u7	Mr Onkelinx, you refer to a number of fiscal measures that were criticised from a certain angle during the previous legislature. We then introduced, among other things, the banking and stock exchange tax. Now we're increasing that bank and stock market tax. We're just going through the line. The previous government did what it had to do, and this government does it, but let's keep up the good work. And that's where the difference is. This government is doing what is necessary. I feel reassured when I read in a press release from the PS that 70% of the Swedish measures were already decided in the previous government. I therefore do not understand what is so terrible about the measures taken by this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u8	Mr Verherstraeten, what you are saying is partly true, but it is again not the complete truth. What did the previous government do? That government has taken a number of necessary measures. We were in an economic crisis back then. The last government, in three years' time, must not forget that two years were first spent because there was no government able to untangle the Community knot. A number of measures were taken to put this country back on track. These measures were of a social nature at the time. Each time it was ensured that the strongest shoulders also carried the heaviest loads. The last government started a tax shift. The Socialists are indeed responsible for a tax shift. You were there at the time! We wanted to move on. The Socialists also wanted to go further in the previous government. If your party and another party had agreed then, then there was now a real tax shift. You're fighting for a tax shift now. You say that this added value tax must be introduced now. Well, this has been on the table with the previous government, but your party and other parties have stopped this. That is the essential difference with this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u9	Mr Verherstraeten, you have just mentioned a number of interesting elements. You pointed out that a great effort had been made under the previous government. An effort has been made, albeit two thirds in terms of taxation and only one third in terms of savings. It's true. We're gonna step up now. The little tooth that we are adding will save most of all. The ratio is reversed, we will achieve two thirds through savings and only one third through taxes. That is a reverse situation compared to the previous government. That's the big difference we make, the power of change. So there's a bit of a tooth, but it's a big change.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u10	Mr Verherstraeten, in order to cut off the wings of a duck that has been introduced to us for weeks and which you are talking about here in the gallery, namely the 70% positive measures indicated by the PS, I promise you to put the press release on your bench just now. If you read it correctly, you will understand that it was 70% of the positive measures that this government is taking, namely the reduction of the burdens that you have called into question, the well-being envelope that you are calling into question its mode of operation today. Go to the end of reading the press releases! But to be sure that you are saying exactly what is indicated, I will give it to you later! Besides, Mr. Dedecker is right! The difference with the former government, Mr Verherstraeten, of which you were a member, is that public services could always provide services to the public, which is fundamental for all citizens. Tomorrow, what public service will still go to the public? Justice can no longer be done, security can no longer be ensured and I am not even talking about SNCB. This is your assessment with the current government!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u11	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Verherstraeten for pointing out the consistency of our group and to quote from Mr Van Hecke's excellent speeches. I think we're witnesses to a great little trick. Of course, Mr Verherstraeten must not be taught anything, if I were to notice yesterday. Of course, he would benefit from talking as much as possible about the past and raising as much polemics about it as possible, but above all not to talk about the future. Mr Verherstraeten, I hope that will close the past. I would particularly like to hear your response to Mr De Croo's statement that there will be no capital tax. I would particularly like to hear your response to Mr Vuye, who just said that he wants to talk about this, but with a list of thirty-seven conditions. That's what we want to hear CD&V about. History, we know it, and so do the people on the street. We want to know what you're up to over the next few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u12	Mr President, perhaps it is not bad to refer occasionally to history, to compare it with the future and then to point out to some fellow Members that they curse what they worshiped yesterday, and that this is not correct. That is the intention, and that has nothing to do with tricks, Mr Calvo. I hear some politicians say there is no alternative. I disagree. There is always an alternative, whether at local or regional level, in this country, in other countries or in Europe, and there are always opportunities to make other choices. There could be an alternative to saving less and reducing the deficit. There could be an alternative not to take Europe's budgetary rules into account. There could be an alternative not to further improve the competitiveness of companies. But, ladies and gentlemen, that alternative is not our alternative. That is not the alternative of this majority. We do not want to move the problems to future generations. We want to tackle the problems and secure the future. I have heard a lot of criticism from the opposition side, but rarely alternatives, although yesterday there was certainly an exception. I have heard above all from my fellow Members of the Socialist family what they did not want. However, I would like to hear what they do want. I would like to hear how they would close a budget deficit by 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u13	Mr Verherstraeten, I cannot blame you for not being present in the Committee on Budgets. However, should you have been present, you would have noticed that both the PS committee members and ourselves have put forward alternative proposals. That's not the first time, by the way. We have also given alternatives before. So there are certainly alternatives that indicate how we would finance this. You know it. After all, you seem to support these proposals, such as an added value tax. The alternatives are indeed there. They have also been tabled and we will retable them, Mr Verherstraeten. Since you are in favour of each of these initiatives, we will give your party the opportunity to approve this Friday. We hope you have the courage to do so. That courage, Mr Verherstraeten, did not have your party on the committee. All the proposals you make and put forward in this gallery have been put forward for a long time. However, your party voted them out in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the time of the interruptions has been as long as Mr Verherstraeten's speaking time so far. That does not, of course, prevent a debate from taking place.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u15	Mr President, it is not the first time I have interrupted today. I'm not gonna take advantage of it, because I'm gonna be on the chair later. Alternatives are translated into amendments. I will now talk about what I call the Loch Ness monster, which is the capital tax or the capital gain tax. Is there one opposition amendment here today that seeks to change the budget, to indicate that it wants to introduce this tax under specific modalities? Here we are constantly talking about this issue, as well as about the conditions, about the proceeds of it, about who has to pay for it and to whom the proceeds go. In my view, it is the most basic right and the duty of the opposition, when it claims to have alternatives, to table an amendment during the budget debate aimed at introducing a capital tax or capital gains tax. Colleague Van Rompuy apparently has not finished his working group within the CD&V. We're looking forward to it. The Minister of Finance is not responding from the majority, but from the opposition, when I have listened and said for so many years: put concrete proposals on the table. I certainly will not say that nothing has happened in the area of power taxation. I'll come back to that later. Sometimes too much happened to our liking, but it was about political agreements, and I keep honoring them. For the future, I think it is elementary for an amendment to be tabled so that tomorrow the Chamber can decide on how the united opposition sees the capital tax. I remain hungry in that regard, and I think this is the biggest flaw in this debate so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u16	Mrs. Temmerman? Keep it short, everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u17	I shall be very brief, Mr President. Of course there is a proposal. We have tabled a bill much earlier, long before this discussion of the budget began. Moreover, Mr Dewael, we will be submitting proposals on the programme law. Feel free to approve them. Once again, we had already prepared a legislative proposal in the previous legislature. It is your party, along with CD&V, that has refused this proposal. I think it is extremely small of you to say that there are no alternatives. You are well aware that these proposals have existed for a very long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u18	Mr. Dewael? Keep it short, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u19	This is the first time I have intervened, Mr President. She personally thinks what I'm saying is small. I didn't expect that from Mr. Temmerman. I know how I'll vote. I won't change my mind. I was against it before, and I'm still against it today. Will Parliament receive a concrete sp.a proposal aimed at introducing a capital tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u20	(...) [[...]] [[: (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u21	There is no amendment. No. Mr President, I am not talking about legislative proposals which have yet to be considered and which are then referred to the Greek calendar. I ask whether Parliament will deal with an amendment in this respect, the day after tomorrow? That's my question. I'm talking about Friday. I would find it enlightening for democracy if Mrs Temmerman were to submit it. Then we can also wait and see what Mr Calvo will do, because he has a different opinion on this. I don't really know about the PS, and I don't know about the PTB-PVDA at all. I'll wait and see... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u22	Mr. Calvo? And then Mr Van Rompuy. Keep it short, everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u23	I think that Mr Dewael's speech is not so much a small one, but rather a political one. I do not feel addressed at all when it comes to alternatives. We proposed one yesterday. Quite a few proposals are being made. We can translate those amendments, if we like. People from the majority like Mr Beke and Mr Van Rompuy may even sign them first. Mr Verherstraeten, what is the most important thing Mr Dewael has said? That's two things. First of all, what the previous government did in the field of tax-shift was too much. You said that, Mr Dewael. Otherwise, we ask for the report: even a little too much for my desire in the previous legislature. You said that, Mr Dewael. Secondly, whatever is going on, whether you come up with 100 amendments or 90, I will not approve it. My opinion remains unchanged. After Alexander De Croo, who says in Reyers Lat that the capital gains tax will not be introduced, Mr Verherstraeten may be turned upside down, Mr Dewael repeats that here again. What's your answer to that? How long can you do that in this government, Mr Verherstraeten? They laugh at you in your face.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u24	Mr Calvo, how long will Green be able to be credible with the proposal to fill in the EUR 11 billion we need by 2019 with EUR 8.5 billion in tax increases or almost 80%? You're the man of the future. That's what you say about yourself. You said just now that we should not talk about the past anymore. That's over. We can only talk about the future of Calvo and Green and how they see things. Mr Calvo, I read in the newspaper that you proposed EUR 8.5 billion. You talk about the government's poor communication, but look at Green's communication. Last night in the debate on the subject, when Verherstraeten said that you were going to increase the tax rate by EUR 8.5 billion, that was not true, but all the newspapers have interpreted it that way. I am still waiting for a serious alternative. A second case, the Cayman branch proposal was tabled in committee by sp.a, which was voted down, but no proposal for capital gains tax was tabled. The sp.a has only submitted a proposal for the caiman tax and that was voted off. You must be honest: you have not submitted a proposal for a capital gain tax. Mr Dewael, CD&V has never said that we would now be presenting a proposal under the 2015 budget. We never said that. Mr Van Biesen, you witnessed this. I said that from the beginning. However, it is also clear that this issue will be on the political agenda in the coming months. That's what CD&V said. You can interpret it in different ways: we say that fair taxation will be on the political agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u25	I propose that we also have Mr Verherstraeten say something. Mrs. Temmerman, very briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u26	Mr Van Rompuy, I have just said that we will table these proposals as an amendment to the programme law. The value added tax is included in the programme law. The caiman tax has re-voted your party.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u27	Mr Van Rompuy, you are making the strategic mistake that Mr Verherstraeten made yesterday. There are people in the opposition who want to realize a tax shift. Mr. Dewael smashes that door in your face right here. What are you doing? You're attacking your partners in that debate. Mr Verherstraeten, please reply to what Mr Dewael is saying: in the previous government it was too much and his opinion remains unchanged.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u28	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, in the course of my speech I will answer some of the questions that have been raised. Mr Calvo, I will answer that. I think you know me better and know that I am not avoiding the debate, not even with you. I said earlier that I did not hear any alternative proposals here. We all went to the vote several months ago with our electoral programmes, with our calculated electoral programmes. For example, you had a programme with more than 6 billion in savings in our primary expenditure. Well, I haven't heard about that in months. There were proposals about new taxes, but I didn't hear anything about savings, which in the past there were commitments to strike a balance. That's the point I wanted to make. In this respect, I did hear other proposals from Green yesterday, and I cannot blame them for not being ambitious. They're very ambitious. Last week we received a report from the OECD, which states that we are in third place on taxation. Well, if we were to approve the Green proposals, we would be in the lead.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u29	Mr Verherstraeten, you are also a little inciting. I give the floor to Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u30	Mr Verherstraeten, you compare apples to pears. If you went to the trouble of looking at our alternative budget on the ground, you would find that we are planning a lot more new policies exponentially than the government. That is a very important difference, Mr Van Rompuy. I don't have to explain that to you. In this new policy, Mr Verherstraeten, there is a much stronger reduction in labour costs, almost EUR 3 billion of oxygen for our SMEs when it comes to corporate taxation and a lot of investment in other aspects of competitiveness. So you cannot say that you solve the problem in a balanced way and that we solve it with taxes. The difference is who pays the bill. In your exercise, the nurse, the teacher, the retired, the ordinary working people pay. With us, the biggest assets, the big banks, the speculators and the fraudsters are indeed paying the price. We'd be delighted to do that exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I like the debate, but there are limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u32	Mr President, I would just like to point out that anyone who lists Mr Calvo will pay the invoice himself in his reasoning. If I read today in De Tijd that anyone who owns more than EUR 250 000, including real estate, is regarded as a wealthy person, there will not be much left. Mr Calvo, you must stop telling me about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u33	Mr Calvo, you will have the floor later. I now give the floor to Mr Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard a lot of reactions to the coalition agreement over the last few months. There are those who say that the government is a right-wing saving government that enjoys hurting people. That is as wrong as saying that the previous government was a purely Marxist tax government. Driving caricatures do not solve anything. Blaming each other for caricatures doesn't solve anything. Caricatures hypothesize the consultation. Caricatures hypothesize the dialogue. I understand the questions of our citizens. I understand their concern about measures affecting their personal situation. I am not saying that the government's measures will not be felt at all. That wouldn't be right either. That is the case with measures taken by every government. That was the case with previous governments. That is the case with this government, and it will be with the next governments. Ladies and gentlemen, please do not blame me just for looking back at the past legislature. The tax measures, for example the deduction for energy savings, the service cheques and the benefits of all kinds, were of course not painless. Were the measures to raise early retirement painless? Of course they weren't painless. Were the measures on bridge pensions painless? Of course they weren't painless. The degressivity of unemployment benefits, of course, also affected people. That was the case in the previous legislature. That is also the case now. I don't dispute that. I have another press release, the last one, with which I address some of my fellow Members. It's a press release from the ABVV-FGTB: "The savings rage of the Di Rupo I government means a significant social decline. Efforts are not justly divided. The future of young people will be put at risk, the unemployed will be impoverished, the purchasing power of workers will be reduced and their pensions will be reduced. These measures will only exacerbate the crisis." Ladies and gentlemen, I can say ironically: the press releases of that union are always the same, only the name of the Prime Minister changes. Everything else has been copied.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u35	Mr Calvo, let Mr Verherstraeten speak first. I'll be back with you later. That's a promise.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u36	Those measures were then defended by parties who are now in opposition. These measures are now being criticised. I think it is wrong, because the combination of all these measures is absolutely necessary. Why is it necessary? To create more jobs, to improve competitiveness and to secure future pensions. That is why these measures are being taken, and that is why they are needed. On this path, this government continues. After all, our country is not an island in the world. We are part of Europe, against which we have committed ourselves and with which we have made budgetary commitments. We do not implement these agreements because Europe obliges us to do so, but because it is necessary. That is what we are doing, because we expect the other European countries to comply with the agreements in this area. We are doing this because we want to reform pensions, because we want to ensure that the future generations also receive a full pension. We are taking these measures because we want to make companies more competitive in order to retain jobs and create new jobs. We are doing this because we want to help more people get to work and because we want to keep the people who are already working longer, in order to keep the pensions of tomorrow affordable. Once again, whether one agrees or disagrees, there is concern among some people. That's not a failure divers. We're not deaf to that. That is why it is urgent to consult and dialogue. I am pleased that yesterday's discussions between the social partners have been discreet and I hope that will also take place in the coming days and weeks. After all, most workers, even those who have participated in actions, do not want further polarisation. They do not want measures of an indefinite nature, but they want solutions of a structural nature. We do not find these solutions at the barricades, either literally or figuratively, but we do find them at the table through consultation. The government has shown that it listens to the social partners. This is evident not only from the coalition agreement, from the Prime Minister's statements and from the statements made by the government's mandated Minister for Labour. This is also reflected in the measures we have already taken with the government, in the adjustments we have made to unemployment, in the case of early retirement, in the case of time-credit, in the case of career breaks and in the case of early retirement benefits. We have listened and we have taken this into account, but without abandoning the final objectives. That is what the government is doing, and it will continue to do so. Finally, the banking crisis has had fundamental consequences for our society. There is indeed a different moral concept of remuneration and taxation than it was ten years ago. Workers and employers are not to blame for this crisis. That debt lies with the banks that have taken irresponsible risk derivatives. Workers, employers and the public authorities are, however, faced with the consequences of this crisis. While it was said naive yesterday when a particular method was not followed, today a certain method will be perceived as not being just. Those who work hard and give a significant part of that hard work to the public authorities I am thinking of employees, SMEs or professionals who have questions about the fact that some of them are getting off the ground thanks to tax cutting technology. It is the ambition that everyone contributes correctly to the restoration of our public debt and to our future. And then we do end up at the tax shift. I listened carefully to the Minister of Finance in the Chamber. I listened carefully to the Prime Minister in the Committee on the Interior in response to his government note. I fully endorse the content. I have also listened very carefully to colleagues from the opposition and the majority. I listened to their concerns. I once said to the public and I repeat today that a tax shift should be arranged in the majority. The greed I have heard from the majority, namely that it should not mean a tax increase, is also our concern. Our group does not want more taxes, but other taxes. When I hear in the Chamber today that an exemption must be granted, it does not seem illogical to me. There is progress in personal taxation. Why should we not include progressiveness in other types of taxation? All this seems fair and logical to me. What I hear here and what we have said on several occasions seems very logical to me: the working middle class must be kept to a maximum. It seems logical to me that when one speaks of profit, it is about net profit. It's about returns and losses. Net profit is the result of the deduction from one of the other. That all seems very logical to me. It's concerns we all share. However, there is also one concern that everyone on the street shares. Life isn't the way it was after the banking crisis. What we have been through over the last few months cannot be ignored: EuroLeaks and Omega Pharma have fundamentally changed the thinking of the average Belgian about a tax shift. A tax shift will therefore become inevitable, without people having to imagine that a tax shift will not require pension measures, that a tax shift would not require savings or that a tax shift would not require the government's measures. All these measures are necessary. Everyone must make efforts to achieve a new balance, to ensure the future, to achieve economic growth with social progress and to create jobs. This budget wants to achieve those objectives, and that is why we will approve the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u37	Mr President, I will be as brief as possible. The concerns you are quoting are also our concerns. Not aimed at middle class? The proposals of Ecolo/Green, check. Net power? Check. Just the greatest abilities? Check. Your concerns are also mine, Mr Verherstraeten, hence our outstretched hand. But you're dancing around the hot shit and you're obviously not listening to what your coalition partners are saying here. You also saw the interview at Reyers Late, didn't you? Mr De Croo says: "The capital gains tax will not be introduced." Mr Reynders says in Mr Echo: 'We are not going to carry out these socialist fantasies after fifteen years, are we?' Mr Dewael says: 'I have not changed my mind.' Look me in the eye and say: "We want a capital gain tax with CD&V." Say it, or else you'll be an accessory to the fact that people come on the streets because they want fair taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u38	Mr Calvo, have you been deaf for the last few months that you have not heard that we have said that we want a tax shift, a shift from labour to capital or other forms of income? Are you deaf? If you say that our concerns regarding that system are also yours, then I have to tell you that your budget figures do not show that: 7.5 billion capital taxes, do not say that you want to spare the middle class, then you will not spare anyone!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u39	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the last few weeks have been very turbulent for our country. Anyone can testify to that. There's a lot of social unrest. There is unrest among the trade unions, but certainly also in large sections of the population. We had the mass demonstration on 6 November, with more than 120 000 people, we had the provincial strikes, and we had the general strike on Monday. It was a long time ago, Mr Verherstraeten, that there was such great social unrest in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that it is not clear for some of you, so I would like to make it clear once again. This is not just about people on strike, as is always said. A lot of people feel that anxiety. A lot of people don't agree with what's happening under this government. I would like to illustrate this with a little bit of De Morgen, where someone said that he did go to work, that he did not stop, but that he wanted to tell the government to think and that she should not just say that it is always the unions. No! I shall read it to you: it is not because we do not stop worrying. Because together with every euro, you are also cutting away hope for a better future, piece by piece. I will think about this regularly at work today, and I hope that you will also think about it once the social dialogue begins. The social dialogue, which we have heard so much about in the declaration of government and during the debates in the committees, is also very important to us. It's very important for the country. The prosperity, social peace and everything we have built up in the past are built on social dialogue. Provocative statements, Prime Minister, may spare your government as a toothache. The Christian Democratic Deputy Prime Minister understood this very well. I can understand his annoyance at the statements made by some of the members of the government parties. Mr Prime Minister, statements such as 'it' are, after all, trade unions, statements such as 'they' always stopped and statements such as 'these people don't think about their children', aren't statements to improve the progress of social dialogue. Prime Minister, there are also statements: 'These strikes have nothing to do with democracy' or 'They are political strikes'. However, Prime Minister, the essence of democracy is that someone can express his opinion, both here in Parliament and in the street. Such statements are not good for our democracy. After all, they undermine our democracy. If the reactions to the massive protest are insults, if one denies and ignores the displeasure, then one is at least unwise but above all irresponsible. Mr President, I hope you will excuse me, but I would like to raise your point. In your capacity as President of Parliament, you must be above the melee and the melee. You should be a bridge builder between the different groups and the different opinions. Of course you can have your opinion. Of course you are free to do and leave whatever you want. Of course, you can stand up for your opinion as well. However, for a President of the Chamber, building bridges is much better than looking for provocation. I'm certainly not alone with my opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall return to the budget. Why is the protest so massive? Mr Verherstraeten, I'm going back to the past. It's massive, because many people feel cheated after the election.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u40	Mrs Temmerman, on the one hand you note that the President of the Chamber is not allowed to do so, but on the other you say that he is also entitled to an opinion, which is nevertheless contradictory. However, I will not have any polemics about this. You also argue that democracy is being undermined. However, when people on the public road hinder other people, it has nothing to do with strikes. That too undermines democracy. I would like you to convey that message to the people you are defending.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u41	Mr Degroote, I do not understand what you mean. I didn't say anything about preventing work. I simply said that it would be appropriate for a President of the Chamber to stand above the table and that it would be appropriate for a President of the Chamber to build bridges and not to provoke them. I believe you agree with that. Colleagues, why is this protest so massive? Let us look again at the past, very briefly, Mr Verherstraeten, at the electoral programmes. Nowhere did it say that the retirement age would be increased or that there would be an index jump; on the contrary, there would be no index jump. Well, that pisses people off, Mr. Verherstraeten. Why are they still mad? Because they add up all the savings, not only from the federal government but also from the Flemish government, you can't blame me if I only know the business of Flanders. Many people understand that efforts are unevenly divided. Whatever you may say, as this budget would be balanced, you must realize by now that it is not, that the savings only come from workers, families and pensioners. The great assets, the shareholders and the fraudsters, Mr Verherstraeten, are spared in this budget. Then you dare to say and repeat in this gallery that there is no alternative. Of course, there is an alternative. The previous government has also shown that there is an alternative. You should not worry too much, there will be about 18 amendments with alternatives to the programme law. Those will also be amendments that have already been tabled in committee, but which you voted away. To say that there are no alternatives is a bit exaggerated. Perhaps you should listen carefully now, because I will list five of these 18 alternatives. Firstly, the added value tax. This has already been discussed in abundance. Mr Verherstraeten also said just now that the OECD says and proves that the tax burden is high in our country. That is correct, but the OECD also says that much can still happen in terms of capital taxes in this country and that they are not too high; on the contrary, our country is about third last when it comes to value added tax. The added value is not taxed in this country, as Mr Coucke has proved. Well, we will propose an alternative in this respect. And when people say it's the middle class they're going to tax, I repeat that 1,5 % 80 % owns the capital gains on shares. So it is not at all the middle class that will be burdened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u42	Mrs Temmerman, it is always clean when the debate is held fairly and when the correct terminology is used. You say here that, according to the OECD, our country is the third largest in terms of capital charges and capital gains, but that is fundamentally incorrect. On the contrary, we are even the third highest, depending on the sum the fourth highest, for those matters. You are constantly confusing the concepts of capital tax, capital gain tax and added value tax. There are three fundamentally different issues at stake. It would be clean, if you were to make a correct distinction and use the right things, at least we know what you are talking about; otherwise it will only be confusing and people will be worried and excited.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u43	Mr Dedecker, the OECD makes a sum of those three. It depends on how the calculation is done. If we compare it with the gross national product, we are indeed high, but if we compare it with the taxes levied on the total sum of the assets, then we are the third. This is a graph from the OECD and it is, of course, this graph that we must use.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u44	Mrs Temmerman, that is another two separate issues. The revenue from a tax is different from the tax rate. That's exactly what you said. However, the question is what one prefers, a low tax rate and a high yield or a high tax rate with a low yield. For example, we noticed in the registration fees that when we lowered the tax rate, we got a higher return. When it comes to capital taxes, we can see that intelligent forms of long-term income tax and capital tax, thanks to intelligent, fine systems and low-rate revenue, still have the third or fourth highest against GDP. If I have to choose between a low tax rate with a high yield and a high tax rate with a low yield, then I choose the first. Apparently, you're picking the second one. We choose something fundamentally different, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u45	Mr Dedecker, I am very pleased with your intervention, which is precisely proof of the injustice. You only want to raise a lot of money in a certain way and in an easy way. What are you doing? You go for the index jump and you charge the wage-earners, because that's the easiest thing to do. However, a fair tax shift by those who earn money from labor and those who earn money by investing their capital equally tax, that is what you are opposed to. Well, we think that is fundamentally unfair. That's the difference. Mr Dedecker, Mr Verherstraeten, that is the difference between the previous government and this one. That's essential. I can't wait to hear what CD&V says about that. I'm getting to the caiman tax. Mr Verherstraeten, you take the words out of my mouth. That is a second proposal that we will table. We have already submitted it, but your party voted it out. As many speakers have said before me, we must fundamentally oppose tax avoidance. The Prime Minister said, when LuxLeaks surfaced, that LuxLeaks wasn't even waiting. After all, the caiman tax was in the coalition agreement. Unfortunately, Prime Minister, he is not in your budget. He's disappeared from the budget. However, Mr Verherstraeten, we have helped you. We have tabled a proposal for the Cayman tax. This will not solve much for LuxLeaks, however, for other forms of tax avoidance, but quite aside. However, we have put forward a proposal for this caiman tax, which everyone is so in favour of. What do we see? The majority parties, including CD&V, voted the caiman tax away. We will retable our proposal, so you can vote on it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u46	We discussed the caiman tax for two to three hours with the professors Maus and Philippe. Their conclusion was that the caiman tax, as it circulated, was actually pointless and missed its purpose because it was only about physical persons and not about corporations. As I said after that hearing, we have to look at the substance of this problem in the Finance Committee. The proposal tabled by Mr Vanvelthoven as an amendment, which was voted on, is precisely the one which the two professors have said is totally pointless and ineffective. Mrs Temmerman, we discussed the Cayman tax in committee for hours and days, but you are now pretending that nothing has been said about it in this House. You know very well that the Cayman tax, in its present form, is not efficient. What you proposed, according to the two professors mentioned above, and the whole committee, Mr Laaouej, was also present. I regret your attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u47	Mr Van Rompuy, what I particularly regret is that this government says that the caiman tax will be there immediately because something must be done about LuxLeaks immediately. But what do we see in your 2015 budget or in your programme law? Nothing about the cayman tax. If you criticize our amendment, we are always prepared to discuss it and adapt it, but have you? No. You are in the government, you decide what your majority will approve. We had no proposal, Mr Van Rompuy. This caiman tax has simply disappeared from the budget and is not included in the multiannual plan or in the proposals that need to be made. We hope that this tax will be introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u48	Mr President, I would like to respond to what committee chairman Van Rompuy says. Unfortunately, I was not present in committee because I was in the Committee on External Relations. I did read the committee report and understood what the two professors Maus and Philippe said. They said that a caiman tax is pointless for LuxLeaks, but useful for dealing with problems with other tax havens. The proposal by Mr Vanvelthoven and our group makes sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed experienced the discussion that Mr Van Rompuy has just outlined. Socialist colleagues were also present. It also discussed Mr Crombez's proposal, which he put forward in the previous legislature. We did not think that this proposal was sufficient, which meant that we did not approve it in the previous legislature, but we still support it. Mrs Temmerman and Mr Van der Maelen, we are indeed in favour of introducing a clear viewing tax...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u50	Then why do you not approve of this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u51	... but an efficient tax. The proposal on the table today is insufficient. It's a light version and we don't want it. We want a clear system whereby every taxable base transferred from one country to another can be followed to determine where it can be taxed. We want to be able to keep the tax in our own country. The proposals put forward are actually copies of Mr Crombez's proposal during the previous legislature. These proposals are not enough, and that is why we are stopping them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u52	Mr President, we have yet to have the proof that the majority wants to interpret things in its own way. I confirm, since I was also present at these hearings, Mr. Van der Maelen: this tax would not be interesting in the case of the LuxLeaks, but for the rest, it is. That is why we supported the amendment tabled by Sp.a.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u53	Mr. Van Biesen, you can't do that, can you? You say it is a good proposal, but you actually want to go further. Now, amend our proposal. We would also like to go further. The truth is that the proposal is there and you do not want to approve it. Admit it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u54	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u55	We'll see. There was a great urgency, but we now see that there is no proposal in either the budget or the programme law, also for matters for 2016. I am only on my second point, Mr President. I've got five. Another proposal is to delete the index jump. This morning we have already discussed it several times. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u56	I will only explain five proposals out of the 19 we will be submitting. Delete the index jump, because it affects purchasing power. There will be a reduction in the burden on wages, but I have still not received an answer from any of the majority parties to my question as to what reduction in the burden of wages is in this budget, except for the index jump. I will give you the answer myself: none. Mr Verherstraeten, the previous government has provided for a reduction of charges for this year. This government has postponed the reduction to 2016. If the index jump comes only in July, there is actually no reduction in charges.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u57	That is correct, Mr Temmerman, but your story is not entirely correct. It is true that we are postponing a planned reduction of 450 million by one year, but it is equally true that we are bringing forward another planned reduction of 450 million. It is true that we will make an index jump in the course of next year. This morning, Mr Van Rompuy referred to the National Bank's figures on its purchasing power consequences for the people by 2019. The fact that there is nothing in next year's budget for the people is not right at all. I refer, for example, to the flat-rate reduction in professional costs, which will mean that people will have net more in their pockets as from 1 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u58	Mr Verherstraeten, ladies and gentlemen, you have simply not listened to what I have said. I said that, in addition to the index jump, this 2015 budget does not include a reduction in the burden of wages. You gave me the right answer, because that reduction has been postponed to 2016. In 2015, however, there are no additional measures for a wage charge reduction. However, I thought that this was one of the main concerns of this government? All you're doing is an index jump in July. If you have read the newspapers of the last few days, you have noticed that a lot of economists and even managers say that this index jump is pointless. In their view, this does not mean that there will be any reduction in the burden of wages. So why keep the index jump? Scratch that index jump! I come to my fourth proposal, which is a real reduction in costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u59	Mrs. Temmerman, may I refer to what you said this morning? You distinguish between wage cuts and wage increases or wage cuts. You are now criticizing us for bringing forward a wage reduction...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u60	In 2017! I am talking about the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u61	This morning, you felt that wages were particularly important. What you thought was so important this morning, you forget, namely, the wages that increase thanks to the reduction of personal taxes. We are talking about almost half a billion euros in tax cuts, increasing the wages of the working people. You're completely ignoring this!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u62	Mr Verherstraeten, you never answer my question. I'm getting there! I was talking about the reduction in the wage burden for the employers you consider so important. There is no such thing in your 2015 budget, because you have postponed it, and you always give me the right to do so, and then you bring up something else. Run a real pay cut. Make labour cheaper, not by an index jump, not by lowering wages, Mr Verherstraeten, but by a tax shift to pay the reduction in wages. Indeed, we are not asking for a linear reduction in the wage burden, but rather a very targeted one, so that we can create more jobs among the low-skilled, because that is where the problem lies and this government is ignoring it. That's my fourth proposal. My fifth proposal is to preserve the pension bonus. We have already talked about this this morning, but we do not understand it at all. This government has raised the retirement age. It is not, of course, a question of raising the retirement age. However, it must be an objective to make people work longer. In fact, everyone agrees on this, but it has to be workable. Anyone who then retires must receive a decent pension. The government must therefore ensure that the pension is properly financed, so that people are reassured. But what does your government do? It is not about longer work, but about a symbolic increase in the retirement age. In addition, you cancel the pension bonus. That means working longer for a smaller pension. We have to do it. [[!]] That's really what this government does. Ladies and gentlemen, these are just a few examples that show that not only policy is unjust. Since this is now being translated into the budget, we can say with certainty that this is an unjust budget. Let me return to the budget debate. Since we had the discussion on the government statement and on the policy, this government and its ministers have had a pretty big run-up. I'd like to go over those chunks for a while. During the night meeting on the government statement, we received the budget table which shows us how we will go through this reign until 2018. In that table and also in the government statement it was stated that an additional month of guaranteed wages would be paid. Now it appears that there is a protest from the employers and that this measure is immediately postponed. That happened one day after the government declaration. The following weekend there were again problems with the figures for SNCB. Minister Galant first mentioned 2.1 billion, then 663 million, and finally 2.1 billion; confusion everywhere. On 4 November, Mr Kitir in committee will be asking Minister Peeters a question. I am glad that you are here, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in relation to the EUR 127 million intended for the social correction at the index jump. After all, the government also claims to always provide social corrections for the lowest wages and the lowest benefits. Mr Kitir asked how the government wanted to do this, because according to our calculations 127 million is by no means enough. You have answered this very honestly, Minister. 1 per cent will go to the lowest benefits and 0 per cent to unemployment benefits. A while later, during the budget discussions in committee, I say again to Minister Jamar that 127 million is not enough for a correction. Minister Jamar insisted that EUR 127 million is sufficient, but that the government does not yet know how that money will be distributed. One minister tells something different than the other. In any case, Prime Minister, you said during the government statement that this would be compensated. The figures and statements made by Minister Peeters show that it is only partly neutralized, not entirely. On 5 November, Minister Reynders announced that savings on federal cultural institutions would be lower and that there would be cultural exceptions. That night he himself was whistled back by Secretary of State Sleurs. The 2015 Finance Policy Paper will be presented on 14 November. We have already talked about it. Suddenly there is no more caiman tax. During the government declaration it was stated that the tax was fixed and that the government acted proactively, but now the caiman tax had just disappeared. Then there was the three-stage rocket consisting of the Court of Auditors, the European Commission and the National Bank. I will briefly give some examples of the Court of Auditors. Of course, the Court of Auditors says that there are good things in the budget. We agree that there are good things in the budget, such as few one-off measures. Mr Verherstraeten has already referred to this. That was the case with the previous government, by the way. The Court of Auditors made that comment at the time. You deny that, but I'll show you later. I'll look it up for you. The Court of Auditors said the same thing exactly. I'll show you later, tonight or tonight; we'll be together for a long time. It cannot be denied that the Court of Auditors was very critical of the proposed budget. Whatever the government is talking about is the contribution it will demand from the great powers. Let's take one: the banking tax for the financial sector. The government estimates it at a hundred million. The Court of Auditors says it'll be ten million. The government then says it will recalculate the bank's tax. The bank tax is being postponed. That is the second case that is being postponed. After the guaranteed wage, the banking tax is now also being postponed. Then there's the decision on the secret commissions. Mr Onkelinx mentioned the 309 % fines this morning. Let us not misunderstand each other, ladies and gentlemen: this is clearly about undeclared work, which is done in black with secret commissions. The Court of Auditors was very surprised at the proceeds in this area, worth 30 million, while being less strict. So the yield can't be greater. If we then look at the excerpts of the FPS Finance, we see that there will be a less yield, no more revenue. The government eventually admits that there will be a reduction in revenue, but immediately adds that it will compensate for this with the liquidation bonus. The next episode deals with the liquidation bonus. Its proceeds had been estimated by the government to be lower than the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors said there's a bigger yield here. This increase in revenue will now be registered by the government, and this will compensate for the reduction in revenue. But, Mr Jamar, what you have obviously forgotten, even if the FPS Finance has clearly said so, is that there is also a lower return, and that there is a cost on the liquidation bonus. You're paying 236 million for it. The cost that the FPS Finance has calculated for you is 354 million. In other words, a minus value of 47.5 million, while you estimate 236 million. Ladies and gentlemen, I am looking at public expenditure. Previous colleagues have already talked very extensively about how public expenditure is being underestimated. They save so much that there are still a lot of problems to be expected from the government. You admit it. Minister Jamar admits it and says he will solve everything with the interdepartmental commission. The interdepartmental commission is the fashion word in the proposed budget, especially when it comes to public expenditure. Each deficit is covered by the interdepartmental commission, which will be increased by 167 million. The Court of Auditors has replied that this will be largely inadequate. Mr Jamar agreed that during the discussion in the committee and clarified that 100 million in investments would go to Defence and that the remaining 67 million would be used for staff. Minister None, who is responsible for Justice, has already said that he will not apply a savings of 4% to the staff of the Justice Department. He sets the bar at 1 % or 2 % and charges the interdepartmental commission for that. Mr Jamar, I calculated it for you: if he saves 2%, he needs almost 27 million; if he saves only 1%, he needs 40 million. On the basis of the statement made by one minister from your government about his department, that interdepartmental commission for the staff has almost been used up. Then there is the fight against fraud. Mr Verherstraeten, you said that you are absolutely in favour of this. But that is not apparent from the budget at all. Besides, the Court of Auditors says he can't calculate the proceeds because he hasn't been provided with any data. How are you going to fight fraud? I would like to point out once again that in your multiannual plan and also now in the 2015 budget, you have committed 75 million, while the previous government recorded an average of 300 million per year. And you're saying you're going to fight the fraud seriously, with barely a lousy 75 million? Furthermore, the European Commission obliges the government to come back with its work in March because a number of measures need to be evaluated. The European Commission also says that there is a deficit of 800 million, as it does not accept measures amounting to 800 million. You still have the problem of the structural balance. The European Commission also concludes that the tax shift carried out by the government is very limited and should be larger.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u63	Mrs Temmerman, you would be very brief about the European Commission. I understand why, but I'd still like to supplement you. The European Commission's biggest remark was our debt position today, the legacy we got after 26 years of socialist policy. The next point from the European Commission was indeed about the tax shift. You were there at the hearing. The officials of the European Commission are cautious. They try to do their best not to make too big political statements. Apparently, at some point, it really couldn't go on. It was seen that they were visibly annoyed by the simplism with which the tax shift was driven. They explicitly said that the debate in Belgium is being conducted far too simplistic, as if only a tax shift from labour to capital would be possible. If you read what the European Commission is writing correctly, it will stress above all a tax shift, not so much towards taxes on capital but towards taxes on consumption and pollution. In this respect, we are still a lot below the percentages. It would be nice if you could give a full and correct presentation of the European Commission's statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u64	I have no problem with that, Mr Dedecker. What you're saying is true, in part. Part of it again. Indeed, the Members of the European Commission were somewhat bored with the fact that they had to make almost political statements every now and then. What you are saying is not correct either, because between the lines one could hear very well what that tax shift was for them. It was indeed about a tax shift to pollution and consumption, but also, I am sorry, Mr Dedecker, as well as its ability. Let me tell you something else, because I am very pleased with your interruption. You say again. It gives me the opportunity to clarify something. You say that the debt that we now have to reduce is the debt that has been built up by socialists for years. Sometimes, Mr Dedecker, it is good to look at history. Mr Verherstraeten will confirm that. There has been a very large deleveraging in our country between 1994 and 2007. Colleagues, may I have your attention? Between 1994 and 2007, with the socialists in the government, the debt was reduced from 136 % to 80%! That, Mr Dedecker, is what you call the fault of the Socialists!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u65	Thank you for your answer, Mrs Temmerman. I'm glad you're so happy when I intervene. I'll intervene a little more often. Firstly, as far as the European Commission is concerned, look at the public document. That is the official document, and I find virtually nothing in it about a shift of burdens to power. It is said that a few have already been done in the past and that there is also a small shift in the burden towards power under the government, but it is also recommended that only a shift in the burden towards consumption and pollution is recommended. These are indeed things that we are working on and which we can and want to do even more. Secondly, with regard to debt disposal, I am very pleased that you are looking at the purple period.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u66	1994 was long before the purple period, Mr Dedecker.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u67	Until 2007, you said. That first period was indeed pre-purple. In the first period under Dehaene, it can indeed be said that primary expenditure is severely limited. Let me say it almost disrespectfully: at that time it was fortunate that there was a fall in interest rates. For a country like Belgium, with huge public debt, that obviously matters a lot. However, the second period, from 1999, the purple-green period, is always referred to by economists as "the lost decade'. At that time we had a booming economy. GDP improved enormously.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u68	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u69	Mr van Biesen disagrees with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u70	Mr Van Biesen will be able to answer later.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u71	Mr. Dedecker, carry on.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u72	We had a booming economy at that time. The economy improved enormously and interest charges fell even more, so we had hugely more budgetary margin. But what did they do? We have chosen to increase expenditure. Even in that period of booming economy and falling interest payments, only one year has been able to balance the budget. Despite all the tricks, despite the sale of buildings, in order to rent them and despite the acquisition of pension funds, there has never been a budget in balance and only debt has been built up.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u73	Mr President, in the meantime, Mrs Temmerman has responded to the inepties from the banks of the N-VA with regard to debt growth at the time of management with social participation. I just want to remind you of specific numbers, Mr. Dedecker. In 1993, the debt-to-GDP ratio was 137.8 per cent and we reduced it to 86.9 per cent in 2007, just one year before the financial crisis. These are the realities! In addition, your index jump policy will have a deflating effect on GDP. That's what the National Bank says. You're the one who's going to dig the debt-to-GDP ratio. Don't come here to say things that don't exist!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u74	Let us look to the future, as Mr Calvo says. Mr Dedecker, I come from the Flemish Parliament and Minister Van Mechelen, the former Minister for the Budget, is also here. He had balanced the budget and the debt at zero. However, in all honesty, after the banking crisis, the Flemish debt has risen to over 7 billion. The former Prime Minister is also here. However, you cannot compare all of this. We have a government with you for the future, but not for the analysis of the past. Mrs Onkelinx, you are applauding, but I have said that we are working with the N-VA for the future. So there's no problem at all. Mrs Temmerman, the European Commission has said that this government has taken 1.4% of GDP structural measures. In absolute terms, this means more than 5 billion in clean-up measures. In the European Commission's view, if we look at this in a structural way, this amounts to about 0.4%. We had to get 0.6%, but they say that this difference is not significant. The Minister has also said it a few times. So we have remained entirely within the European Commission's standard. I think this is a plus. They have also said that the efforts that are being made are balanced in terms of the distribution between savings and revenue. I therefore believe that we have a good report from the European Commission. Another thing is that the economy is not going well at the moment, but that can change quickly. Think of oil prices. Today, I read in the newspapers that growth would increase by 0.5% next year. Now, however, to give the impression that we do not meet the standards of the European Commission when you oppose any kind of savings, I think that is intellectually and politically unfair. Any kind of savings will find no mercy on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u75	Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy, it is not true that we are opposed to any kind of savings. You weren't there in the last government. At that time, there was also serious savings. I have never said that the European Commission did not think it was a good thing. Mr Van Rompuy, when I came home early with a report saying that I should come back in September, my parents did not think that I had worked well and that I should continue in this way. The fact that the European Commission's government has to come back in March 2015 does mean something. My fellow Members, the growth prospects of the National Bank of Belgium are the third chapter. After the Court of Auditors and the European Commission, I would like to talk about the National Bank of Belgium. Indeed, it is true that the growth prospects do not look good, which will require a number of adjustments in the future. However, the fact that we have lower growth is partly because we might even say that it is due to the international economic situation. However, Ministers, you cannot ignore the fact that the National Bank of Belgium notes that lower economic growth is also due to the drop in consumer confidence. Why has consumer confidence decreased? I am literally reading from the report of the National Bank of Belgium: "These negative assessments are probably related to the announcements of the various savings measures by the government. That statement is, of course, also part of the truth. Because of the index jump, because the government is reducing consumption and because purchasing power is reducing, we have a problem in this area. Colleagues, I would like to sum up. The government has made broken promises. The index jump is neutralized. No, the index jump is not neutralized. The current government is so proud that the welfare envelope, which I have not yet mentioned, will be spent at 100%. However, the Court of Auditors has calculated that it will not be used for 100 % but for 84 %. That 100% had already been decided by the previous government, not this government. This government decides that the welfare envelope will not be used for 100 % but for 84 %. Moreover, it remains unclear what is meant in this area by the fiscalisation of the welfare envelope. Minister, no one understands why you do that. Even the European Commission points out that there is a problem here. You'll have to sign them up as an issue. It is therefore impossible for you to reduce the burden and the debt in this way. You claim that the welfare envelope is awarded for 100 %? I am sorry, gentlemen, the Court of Auditors has calculated that only 84 percent will be allocated. You're going against LuxLeaks immediately, with the Cayman tax? I'm sorry, the caiman tax is being postponed. At least we hope so. We are in joyous expectation. Not only are promises broken, the bill just doesn't add up. The Court of Auditors has calculated that expenditure is underestimated by hundreds of millions. You can't solve that with the interdepartmental commission. The European Commission sees a difference of 800 million. That was just confirmed by the chairman of the committee. Economic growth will be lower. That is to say, Prime Minister, you will have to save again. Consumer confidence is falling, which reduces purchasing power and will require further action in the future. What is even more important, ladies and gentlemen, is the unequal distribution, the unequal effort. The employers are protesting against the guaranteed wage? It's being postponed. The Council of State makes a comment on the banking tax? He's being postponed. We're having some trouble with the Cayman tax? He's being postponed. All the other measures, which the people take directly, which do not go to the wealthy, which are not intended for the shareholders or for those who commit fraud or try to circumvent, are, however, being implemented. I come to the debate on the tax shift, Prime Minister. Mr Verherstraeten, perhaps it would be useful to listen again. Mr Peeters, you said and I quote you literally: 'The people expect us to demand an effort from the wealthy too.' I couldn't agree more. Mr Verherstraeten, I quote you: 'If the very great abilities spring from the dance, that is unjust.' In addition, there was a whole series of CD&Vs who made or did not make statements about the tax shift. Mr. Beke, as chairman, you decided a little bit about the discussion. You say that we have five years to achieve the tax shift, but the index jump and all other measures cannot be postponed. They must be introduced immediately. For the tax shift, of which so many economists and others say it is part of the solution, we have five years. In short, another delay. And then we have Monday as a cherry on the cake Deputy Prime Minister De Croo, who said that the capital gains tax is not going to happen. This has just been endorsed by Mr Dewael. My colleague asked Mr Verherstraeten and CD&V what they thought, what they said, but he did not get an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u76	Mrs. Temmerman, I have a small remark. I hear you say that all measures that you consider negative for purchasing power and for ordinary people will be postponed and will not enter into force on 1 January, and all other matters will.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u77	I said the savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u78	That's not right. A hugely complex legal framework is needed to create the index jump. There isn't even one yet. That's not working yet. There are even sectors that may even benefit from an index in January. It is not right for you to say that all this will come into effect. In fact, it's all still to be drawn up. It's not here yet. I would also like to refer to the SWT debate, which you are well aware has been postponed by the government and the Minister for Labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u79	Mr Lachaert, what I really don't understand is, if it's all so complicated to go through that index jump, if so many entrepreneurs say it's no use, if economists say there's another way to do that tax shift and to cut wages, another way that, by the way, will generate a lot more jobs, why do you do it? Then why on earth do you insist on this index jump, if it is such a big problem to implement it and if it will not lead to any reduction in the burden of wages by 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u80	Now you're really intellectually throwing a number of things at a pile. The technique of introducing it is complex. That's not so obvious. There is both the private and the public sector. You are well aware that the private sector works differently from the public sector and that the technique of introducing an index jump is not easy. Anyone who claims otherwise must show how it should be done. In addition, there is the principle of this index jump. That has already been addressed in every speech. The National Bank has calculated that this index jump is good for 60,000 jobs. According to economists, not according to politicians, next year's purchasing power for two-earers will increase, for working families, and you will wipe it under the carpet. You're intellectually unfair in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u81	Mr Lachaert, I will no longer have the discussion about the number of jobs that the measures provide. Both the National Bank and the Planning Bureau at the time have calculated that a targeted linear reduction in charges on the lowest wages, financed by taxes on capital gains, results in almost twice as many jobs. I'm explaining that for the umpteenth time! Prime Minister, you are desperately calling for this government to speak out of une seule voix. Even today, in this hemisphere, it is quite clear that une seule voix is not there. Ministers contradict each other in committee and in this plenary session even the members of the majority contradict each other. The conclusion is that almost all contributions of assets provided for in the present budget are postponed. What remains is the stock market tax, which is barely 80 million, as well as the early tax on pension savings, which you also consider to be a tax on capital. Mr Prime Minister, Minister Peeters and other members of the government, I certainly do not understand that from CD&V, but also from Open Vld. You say that the middle class absolutely must be spared, that the middle class is absolutely not affected by the burdens on abilities. However, you consider the early tax on pension savings to be a capital tax, which is on both the Prime Minister's list and Mr De Wever's list. Well, that's outrageous, because this really hits the middle class. After all, it is not the big assets that make pension savings, but it is, ocharm, the two-earners. However, you see this as a tax on the great abilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u82	Mrs. Temmerman, it would be nice if you were also complete and correct. The tax on pension savings is indeed being brought forward, but it is also being greatly reduced. It would be a good thing if you could explain to the people who are protesting on the streets that we are reducing the burden on pension savings, rather than pushing them up even more.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u83	Mr Dedecker, that is not right at all, because the European Commission has also said that this is actually a one-off measure. My point is, above all, that you think this is a burden on power. Your party, your chairman, says that this is a burden on the big assets, while it is the ordinary people who save their pensions and which you once again touch. Mr President, I will conclude. This government has a problem. This budget has a problem. It's a budget of broken promises. There's a problem because the bill doesn't add up. The Court of Auditors and the European Commission have pointed this out. However, there is above all a problem of credibility and injustice. Although this government claims that everyone must make an effort, we can only see that the richest 1.5 percent is completely free. The fraudsters will have to wait a bit for a real, firm approach. The protest won't go away. You hope so, I know, but it won't go away. It is not by diabolicizing the protest that it will disappear. I hope you will be able to control your troops in that regard, Prime Minister. You must have a real dialogue and you refuse to do so, and even today it has been said once again in this Chamber that only points and commas will be discussed. This does not solve the injustice of your policy or your budget at all. Stop saying there's no alternative. The opposition has already proved to be sad that there are many alternatives. I have two messages for you. Listen to what happens in the street and listen to the alternatives. Make sure there's a fair budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u84	Mrs. Temmerman you have to finish. You were given as much speaking time as the other speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u85	Mr President, I was often interrupted.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you that 106 speakers have been registered on the various areas of competence. The plan is to continue until the Home Office hatch. With life and well-being, we will start tomorrow afternoon, after our usual agenda, with the Asylum and Migration section and continue with the Public Office and Foreign Affairs section. That's the agenda for the next few hours. Many hours, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u87	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, my speaking time is now beginning and I am trying to respect him. It should be possible to explain in about forty-five minutes why I support this government's project effectively. We support this government's project, Prime Minister, because it is a positive project that bears hope and inspiration for the future. We can debate the past and who has done what for a very long time, but the citizens of this country have little message to say about it. The citizens of this country want to hear what measures can be taken to achieve what objectives. That is your project, Prime Minister, crystal clear. You say you're going for job creation. You say you want more people to work. You say you want people who can do it to work a little longer or something. If we succeed, we will broaden the basis on which our prosperity is based. That's what it comes down to in the end. Everything we create in terms of added value through jobs is, among other things, the basis of social security. I do not question social security at all, because that is often the dialectic that is being used: one would chop into social security. No, anyone who falls through the loopholes of the network, for whatever reason, must be entitled to our solidarity. Your second message is that we need to make our country more attractive and attractive for investment, whether it comes from the country or from abroad. Let us not forget that there is a problem from abroad in the sense that we are not competitive at the moment. In the past, we have wasted too much time determining the percentage of the labour cost handicap; there is this handicap, which is there at European level, which is there against our three main trading partners, and it is our damned duty to remove it. I come from a region where this week we are talking about a company that employs thousands of people. I will not gauge the causes of moving away from the automotive in my province. However, it is a damper, because at the moment thousands of families in Limburg are wondering what the future will bring. It is the duty of the government and of Parliament to send out signals that the future is being prepared. I therefore have little to say about the polemics about what the current or previous government could or could not have done in addition. I shall come back to that in a moment, but I would argue for continuity in this area, like Mr Verherstraeten. For a piece there is a collective political responsibility over what has happened in the past and what needs to be done now. I will come back to that in a moment. However, I would first like to make it clear that the government has gained Parliament's confidence. The government consists of four parties which have won more or less in the last election. The government has proposed, not on 500 days but much faster, a government agreement for which Parliament has obtained the inquisition. In other words, Prime Minister, you have democratic legitimacy. Use it, whatever you say in the street. I listen to what people say in the street, but I also listen to what people say in the Wetstraat. That is still the primacy of politics for me. The second point I would like to make is that everything that is exaggerated is meaningless. There are people in this hemisphere who dispute your legitimacy. They say that your legitimacy in the French-speaking part of the country is not evident. However, they didn't make it a problem that the previous government didn't have a majority in the Dutch-speaking group either. In other words, your government would be the result of a little poker: how did they ultimately dare to create this coalition? Then there's a dialectic. I am addressing both yesterday's opposition and the partners of the new majority. Today's opposition says that this is a cold saving government, a right-wing savings government that does not really take into account the needs of the people. I find that an unimaginable caricature. Yesterday, and by that I mean the previous legislature, there was criticism of a left-wing tax government. I have fought that repeatedly at that time. I didn't change my mind. I thought it was a caricature, too. We in that previous government, together with the socialists, regrettably envious, have taken measures that were necessary. None less than the previous Prime Minister said that 70% of this government's policy could be endorsed by him. Then I don't understand why he walked 100 % in a demonstration. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u88	He didn't say that. If you could be correct in the transmission of the former Prime Minister's words, it wouldn't be wrong! What he said, and it's important... Prime Minister, are you listening to me? Shut up for two minutes, please! Let me say something. [[Protests]] I simply ask the Prime Minister to listen to me, and when he answers, I will listen to him. The former Prime Minister simply said that, in the "reinvestment" column, in particular in terms of reducing social security contributions for businesses, what you decided to do was already largely in the Competitiveness Pact concluded at the end of the previous legislature. In this sense, the 70% you are talking about, Mr Dewael, of course, is not 70% of the new government's decisions. Thank you very much! Never, for example, would we have adopted measures such as those you have taken with respect to index jumps or pension bonuses. As much as you want, quote Mr Di Rupo, but then quote him in the text and correctly!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u89	I'll deal with Mrs. Onkelinx. I have no desire today to lose what I defended in the previous majority. I assume you don't want to either, because that's what we did together. That was the subject of political agreements, agreements and compromises which we defended together. I shouldn't quote him. I just need to observe him. I may have an outspoken conservative view on this, but I think that outgoing ministers and certainly an outgoing Prime Minister should withdraw for a while and refrain from political action. I saw the previous Prime Minister march along in a demonstration. He has actually shown himself to be the sitting Prime Minister in current affairs as the new leader of the opposition. I don't think that's possible. I say to you: then one finds oneself again. I can say that in French. We can try to regain his political virginity. I don't know if that's your ambition, but after twenty-six years of power, it takes a little more time to regain his political virginity! It will come, but not today!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u90	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u91	Mrs Onkelinx, if we have to govern this country on the basis of the polls, we do nothing more! It has never entered my political ambitions to govern a country or to support a government on the basis of polls! If we do this, it is the end of democracy! Ladies and gentlemen, let me repeat it once again. What this government is doing is in line with what was done during the previous legislature. At the end of the previous legislature, we have established that I am now looking at Mrs Temmerman, who, on the political left, was no longer the political courage to continue and strengthen this policy. We did things together that weren't in your election program either. We have introduced the degressivity of unemployment benefits. It wasn't in the Parti Socialiste's election program, it wasn't in the sp.a. election program. In 2011, immediately after the formation of the government, we introduced the pension reform. It wasn't in your election program either. We have decided on this measure. In the area of migration and asylum, we have adopted a number of laws which were not included in your election programme, but which were necessary for the future of this country. Your group is now falling: it was not in the electoral programme, you are committing some kind of electoral deception. We are taking measures resulting from a political agreement. This coalition agreement has gained the confidence of a majority of the Chamber. May we do that then?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u92	That is the task assigned to you by this Parliament, Prime Minister. We have done the same in the previous government. Those who say that it is all different today and that it used to be sorrow and torment, they go astray! And those who say that it was the heavens before, and today they are woeful and woeful, they are astray. We are stepping up the policy we had put in place. However, you were mainly chased by the PTB on the French-speaking side, and because she was diabolized by the new communists, the PS pulled her tail. She played another game of poker, but ended up in the opposition. You are there now; give this government at least two months to prove what it can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u93	Mr President, I hear Mr Dewael and I feel all the happiness that he has today to give us a public catharsis to answer the question which has tarauded him since the beginning of the legislature: does he feel guilty or feel powerless to have gone with us to look for seven billion euros on the income of capital in the previous legislation? That's what bothers you, Mr. Dewael! It is to have to admit that you have, under the previous legislature, made the tax shift that you are unable to bear the effects of today. That's the truth! You are in search of a found virginity, the virginity of ultraliberalism. Good for you, Mr. Dewael!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u94	Mr President, I will be very brief. Mr Dewael, no one blames you for defending the government. Nobody. Why are you doing so much theater there? Are you still allowed to defend that government? Of course. That's what you're expected to do. However, can we also attack this government as an opposition, please? That's democracy, too. If you say that the people who are arguing are not democracy, then this is democracy: let the opposition speak and let them attack this government. If you say that this government is implementing what the previous government has decided, then I would like to hear what the N-VA is about. The power of change is very far away. You are actually implementing, as Mr Dewael says, a PS policy. Very weird.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u95	Mrs Temmerman, there is, of course, room for argument. It has been argued against this government and I have listened carefully to that signal. I was annoyed here because the opposition was in the process of coloring those 120 000 people before the demonstration was disbanded. They were all angry. Of course, arguing is an expression of anger. They all say the same thing, so to speak. I can't analyze that, and you can't analyze that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u96	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u97	You did, Mr Calvo. What I can say is that there were more than the Di Rupo government. Then there were 60 000 to 70 000 on the streets and they were also angry. I ask you whether you have allowed the measures taken by the previous government in relation to competitiveness to be the subject of social dialogue. Do you know the interventions of Mr Vande Lanotte in the index basket that have actually resulted in us no longer having any adjustment of wages to the index since 2012? We know him. He's not here and I'm certainly not going to fish him. He's a good former colleague. He said we didn't have to make an index jump and he was gonna work something out. In practice, that was the same thing. In practice, we saw that wages were not adjusted to the index. So there was de facto an index jump, de facto. Next, there was the measure of VAT on electricity. Mr Verherstraeten, not everyone in the majority was equally enthusiastic about this, but we have taken that measure and he has contributed so we have defended it to competitiveness. Mr Peeters, we closed the Competitiveness Pact and said that we would use EUR 450 million three times to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies. Have these measures been the subject of social consultation? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u98	No, and that has led to a non-agreement. Mrs Temmerman, the last measure was wage moderation. I know Mr. De Leeuw a little bit. He was furious, because unilaterally the government had decreed that wages would be frozen for two years. Did that make up the subject of social concert? No. Was that bad back then? That wasn't as bad as it is now, because you were in the government. At those moments, the red union is less angry than it is today. That is the reality. I had planned to pour oil on the waves, but I can't help myself. It is now said that this is a political strike. I have heard people from the ABVV/FGTB declare that they will cease and take action until the present government is gone. Now give me a definition of what a political strike is different. Do such statements still have to do with normal social dialogue? Do they have to do with wage and wager terms? It's a political strike. It's a strike against the government, with the aim of getting rid of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u99	Mr President, Mr Dewael, you are very excited. I hardly recognize you. You're getting really excited. I started my speech with a call to the Prime Minister to ask him to restart the social dialogue. You will probably agree with me that social dialogue is the basis of the prosperity we have today. I have asked the Prime Minister to ensure that his ministers do not make an offer of statements, and one minister is already a little stronger against the other, in order to diabolize the people who are evil, who have argued and who have stopped. You will be the next speaker in the gallery and will do the same again. Mr Dewael, I have to believe that the current government is fully committed to social dialogue. You will not blame me if I say that what you are doing and have declared, in my opinion, makes this totally unbelievable. You don't want social consultation. You want to push things through. Your attitude and statements simply prove that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u100	Mr Dewael, there has been social dialogue. Social dialogue has not reached agreement on all points, but there has been consultation. You shouldn't say anything else. It is always said from some quarters that socialists do not dare to take courageous decisions. We have taken courageous decisions with the previous government. We've been stopped and argued against, too. My cabinet has also been cut short, but we have maintained a number of decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u101	I'll make my point for the last time. I'm not losing what I defended yesterday. So I will not say that we made the wrong decisions at the time. I simply said that there are people making statements, whiter washes whiter as if what is happening today is completely different from what was before. That's not right. What you're saying is that what happened before was perfectly normal and that what's happening now is all over it. That's not right either. Of course, consultation has been held and, on certain points, the non-agreement of the trade unions has been noted; I am a requesting party for social dialogue. I hope that the Prime Minister's appeal and the efforts of the Minister for Employment will bear fruit. However, do you think it is normal for the government to have gained Parliament's confidence here two months ago and to move from one action to another, without having to sit down at the table? What happens in a normal relationship between the government and the social partners? The government draws up the political framework and leaves room for social dialogue within it. Now the social partners say that these measures must be removed. They go even further: fiscal policy must be the subject of social dialogue. I have never experienced in my life that fiscal policy should be the subject of social dialogue. Again, it is the government that determines the framework. I hope that the partners will come to the table and listen carefully to what is contained in certain measures. I have to say that it is not always the right information. I will not wave with terms like disinformation, but there are people who ask me questions about, for example, the effect and impact of a measure on their pension. If I ask where they get that from, then reference is made to information meetings with the social partners and the trade unions. That's disinformation, to piss people off, to hunt them down and to instill fear. That has never made a society better. I reject that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u102	Mr Dewael, I would like to ask you a question in the context of the right information. You have just given the trade unions a conscience, because they have the desire to talk about the way in which they provide fair taxes in our country. You have said that you do not accept this, that it is not a subject of social consultation, you have just said that. That is actually a direct attack on the Minister of Work, the Deputy Prime Minister, who is responsible for social dialogue. Mr Peeters, the day before yesterday you proposed in the great Peeters plan, the plan for pacification, which lived for about five hours, to talk to the social partners, employers and employees about the tax shift. Yes or no? You did that, didn't you? Mr Dewael says here it is the umpteenth time in a few days that Open Vld does this to his best friends of CD&V to stop; one does not want to discuss the tax shift with the unions; one does not want to remove the fuse from the powder keg; one does not want to try to achieve a pacific; one simply does his will and preserves what is there. Mr Dewael, you have not only attacked the trade unions, you have said that Mr Peeters is constantly mistaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u103	Mr President, in view of the personal situation, I would like to make a few comments. It is, of course, right that the debate on taxation should take place in the government and in Parliament, and I would like to emphasise this once again. However, an opinion was delivered in 2010 on the alternative financing of social security, in particular through VAT and withholding tax. In 2013, an opinion was also issued on the impact of alternative funding and the sixth state reform. I have tried very discreetly to meet with the social partners, and there is something to be said for this: if we take certain steps, an opinion from the social partners on alternative financing of social security is an option, at least if we are prepared to do so from the social partners. That could be a contribution to the debate, which could take place in the government and in Parliament. In 2010, the opinion was that there are two basic elements for alternative financing, namely VAT and withholding tax. A very interesting advice was delivered at the time. I have checked out and this can be discussed further to what extent an opinion can be given on the alternative financing and sustainability of the financing of social security in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u104	Mr Peeters, I fully agree with you. Tax reform is important and the greater the support for it, the better. This is an important building block for economic and social policy. If employers and employees can agree to this, advise on it, give direction to it, I welcome it. I thought that was one of the better demarches we saw from the government. Then you can only determine with me, by what Mr Dewael has come to say here in the chair, by what Mr De Croo in Reyers Lat says, by what Mrs Rutten says in an interview, by what Mr De Wever says in interviews, he does not come here, he does not participate in the parliamentary debate, that it is and will remain your mother-in-law. My question is still how long will you tolerate that mother-in-law Patrick Dewael? How long will you continue to accept that your difficult work with the social partners will be made even more difficult by your own majority, by your fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, by group leaders from majority parties? How long will you continue to accept this, Mr Peeters? Every day a mother-in-law comes along.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u105	Mr President, I should like to apologize first. I was a little late because of some serious social conflicts in the fire department. What strikes me is what a hallucinatory debate is going on here about whether the social partners are entitled or not, invited or not invited to give opinions on taxation. May I remind my fellow Members that, in addition to the National Labour Council, there is something like the Central Council for Business? Take a good look at the law on the Central Business Council, take a good look at the agenda and read the opinions. Then you will know that in our country we have a very hard tradition in which the social partners also look at taxation in terms of competitiveness and competition with neighbouring countries, and quite rightly so, I think. When I hear you, Mr Dewael, it is as if that would already go too far in principle. When one enters into a discussion, which I have been following for 45 minutes, it is striking how schizophrenic the government talks about social dialogue. I hear someone in the media arguing that we need peace for a serene climate and a serene social dialogue, even with new agenda items. Here I hear one of the most caricature portraits about a union, Mr Dewael. It wasn't just the red union that came out on the street.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u106	If one wants to make changes in a society, politics can create a framework, but one must find allies to realize the policy. Traditionally, structuralally too, we need social dialogue for this. This government has taken a number of decisions on top of the decisions of the Di Rupo Government. This means that there is twice as much uncertainty in a very short time. This means that we have to communicate very consciously and that the measures we are taking, the finalities that have been laid down, must be implemented relatively quickly. I now have the impression that a lot of people are worried about two things. For example, there is uncertainty about pensions. We all have to work up to 67 years, but then Minister Bacquelaine comes to say that it is only 19%. I could say the same about the time loan. This means that, in time, people will no longer know when they can retire, for example, and that will cause a great deal of pain in reality. This requires social partners, including your communication. I feel sorry for Kris Peeters, because I see that he is making efforts for the social partners on both sides. The employers must not be underestimated either. One tries to talk to them, but there can only be results if the coalition partners cooperate and if one knows very well what the margins of the negotiations are.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u107	Mr President, it seems that a lot of speakers are needed to make the same point. I'm gonna give you my point one more time, and then I want to stop. Excuse us for taking part in elections. Forgive us for submitting programmes to the people during these elections. Pardon us for making a government agreement on the basis of these programmes, and perhaps we should also apologize for wanting to implement that government agreement. If there is no problem to that extent, then the implementation of this policy, Mrs De Coninck, will follow, and you are nodding. However, the trade unions argue that these measures should be taken out, or that they should otherwise continue their actions. The unions strike first and then they may come to sit around the table. The trade unions also want to talk about elements which have nothing to do with the implementation of the policy, and which is rather the rewriting of the coalition agreement. The trade unions then leave the boundaries of normal social dialogue. I want to give the social concert all the opportunities, but I do not accept that the social partners, whether employers' or employees' organisations, should replace politics. That's the primacy of politics for me. Once again, I challenge everyone to give examples from the past few years where the social partners have come out on their own. I am asking for the latest historic agreement that the social partners have been able to conclude. I knew Mr Peeters when I was Minister of the Interior. He was still the patron of UNIZO back then. I must say that there is also a slight difference in communication back then and now. In all these years, I make the exception for the generation pact........................................................................................................................................................................................... Do you know when the social partners can make agreements? If the government gives money, if enough grease is given by the government, if they can distribute or distribute something. So be it . D Do you really think, if the government takes a step backwards and the Group of Ten sits around the table, that we will wake up one fine morning and hear that there is a historic pact on the future of our country in terms of taxation, social and work organisation? The Group of Ten isn't coming out of there. I would ask that the choices of Parliament and of the government defending a government agreement should at least be left untouched. Otherwise, it is as if there are two democracies, as if we are going to a new negotiation. You can't. The chalk lines are fixed. They shall be implemented in consultation with the partners. If that consultation doesn't work, then politics decides. That is the alpha and the omega of parliamentary democracy, as I have learned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u108	Mr Dewael, you contradict yourself. On the one hand, you say that the partners will never get out, and on the other hand you say that politics will never dare to decide. That's not true. If the partners have not got out in recent years, then politics has decided. So it is not the social partners who decide in our place. Under the previous government decisions were taken and the partners were involved in their implementation, but not everything was accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u109	Mrs. De Coninck, what you're saying is wrong. After all, at some point you sat down at the table with the Prime Minister's head of the cabinet to put the unitary statute in a decisive fold, otherwise it would never have been possible. Other agreements have been made in the context of budgets, I refer to 2013, with measures on the annualisation of working time, school bell contracts, better matching of the needs of the family and those of the labour market, which subsequently went to social dialogue, but they were blocked there. I'll say even more. Political decisions were taken and defended in the Chamber, after which they were sent to social consultation, so that they would be blocked and one would never get out. That is also the reality. However, it is a system for which I fit. However, I shall move on to my next point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u110	Mr President, this is the first time I have spoken in plenary. I would like to say to Mr Dewael that I find it difficult to follow him and understand him. In my view, the government that finished its work should not be confused with the new one. My colleague Ahmed Laaouej has made a very strong point: what you are doing today in terms of capital. This is the subject of debate between the members of the government, between the Open Vld and the CD&V. Will you renew what has been achieved by the Di Rupo government? Will this government dare to take action among the most affluent in our country? If I hear you well, you're telling us that you're going to be strong. You explain to us that this government has set a framework, that some refuse social consultation and that ultimately the government will decide. Let me recall some of the elements. First of all, I find it shocking to attack you at the unions like you did. You're talking about a political strike. But all strikes are political in that they are directed at a government: those of today, those of yesterday, those of tomorrow. It is shocking to hear you say that these strikes would be political. What does that mean? That strikes will be banned in our country? It's very serious! Then you explain to us that a framework has been defined. What frame are you talking about? You're talking about a battery of measurements to take, but not to leave. There's no choice. Yesterday, the Prime Minister spoke on a national channel: no signal was sent to the unions, no signal was sent to the employers. Not the slightest opening. Today, we hear you speaking with the same firmness. To sum up your remarks, we must be even more concerned today than yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u111	That last interruption actually fully confirms my position. Yes, there is a political framework. Yeah, we'll run that frame. We will discuss it and it will lead to a consensus, all the better. If this does not lead to a consensus, that framework will be implemented: that is the primacy of politics. You have a hard time with that, but for me that is the obvious thing. I'll give you a few challenges we face. These are findings that have been eagerly quoted from all sorts of reports. I also notice that today the left side is eagerly quoting from the IMF report, the OECD, the National Bank: all the possible reports that were previously somewhat controversial are suddenly the source of truth, except when there are things that do not fit in. If the word "taxshift' still exists in anything, it sounds like the OECD is also in favour of a "taxshift'. The same OECD wonders a little bit further whether we can maintain the system of automatic index coupling. That is where the OECD is wrong. When one says that a tax shift must be done, it is obviously towards capital. If all these organisations say that it can go in the direction of consumption or VAT, then it can't; it can only be about capital. That may not be a reading from the Holy Gospel, but certainly a very selective reading. Today, in our country, we are faced with a situation in which less than a quarter of the 60 to 60-year-olds work. I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, only Slovenia, Malta and Slovakia are doing worse. The average career duration is thirty-two years. Only Greece and Italy are doing worse. The effective retirement age in our country is 59. Only Luxembourg is doing worse. In 2060 there will be only two workers per pensioner, according to the extrapolation. Of course, the numbers hurt, but they do show that something has to be done. Only one Belgian out of three still works in the private sector today. Only Greece, Spain, Italy and France are doing worse. Only two out of three Belgians who can work also work effectively. I have already mentioned the problem of pay. If we are faced with these figures, if they are the challenges facing our country, then we must take action. That's right, Mrs. Temmerman says. Are the measures we are taking today equal to social barbarism? This is almost the way to prevent it: what this government is doing to this country is almost transferring the most vulnerable people to social barbarity. The index is kept: one jump is made. Do you know when we've done that? In the period 1981-85. We took three. At that time, at the request of the then governor of the National Bank, we also devalued the franc. Mr Minister of Finance, we also passed a law which, according to which author wanted to be in the sunlight, was called the Monory-De Clercq Act or the Cooreman-De Clercq Act. That law had to activate and invest the dormant capital on the many savings accounts, in order to strengthen the equity of our companies. I can tell you that these measures have completely restored the competitiveness of our business in four years' time. I can tell you that in 1981 we had a net balance of 13.2% of GDP to be financed. Now we are discussing a little more than 3%, how we get below that 3%, and how we get to 0 % as soon as possible. I will spare you who was the Minister for the Budget at the time, but the deficit was 13.2%. Measures such as the Saint Anna Plan have reduced the deficit to 6% or 7%. Later, Jean-Luc Dehaene's Global Plan was added and Belgium was gradually being defied for the eurozone. That is the reality! How did these measures be implemented between 1981 and 1985? I'm getting almost nostalgia to Poupehan. Do you remember that, Poupehan? There were four people present: Wilfried Martens, Jef Houthuys, Hubert Detrempie and not to mention Fons Verplaetse. Houthuys said about those three index jumps that it was not pleasant, but he would defend them in his movement. Verplaetse said: 'If you are doing so, devalue the franc, which is also good for competitiveness.' That was then the social consultation on the banks of the Semois. That's how it used to be. Yesterday, I read in an article that Mr Verplaetse raised the question of whether there are still political leaders in this country. Well, I ask the social organisations whether there are still people there who want to take up their responsibilities today and support the measures that are desperately needed for the future, not only of us but also of our children and our grandchildren. That is the focus of the debate we are having today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u112	Mr President, I am increasingly finding that the past is the only thing this majority agrees on. Mr Verherstraeten has read from the history books and Mr Dewael is still right in his favour. I believe, Mr Dewael, that this government, this Mexican army, no one knows who is in charge of, is very badly placed to teach leadership. I shall then come to a second element. Surely you have a very strange and old-fashioned view of democracy. You have nostalgia for the time when four people in a chalet in the Ardennes defined our socio-economic policy. We have a different view of democracy. Yes, democracy presupposes elections and a majority in this Chamber, but there is so much more. We live in 2014. Democracy is much more than elections. Where is the time when liberals made a plea for civil democracy, more participation, more listening and more interaction? Now you are standing here in the gallery, overlooking a time when four people could still decide in a chalet. That has nothing to do with democracy!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u113	Mr Calvo, it is unbelievable how you turn a boltade used by me to your hand. (Protests from Mr Calvo) I've had the courtesy of listening to you. If you can't control yourself anymore, I suggest you go outside and get some air. It's good to calm down once in a while. There are also pills for that. I think your hyperventilation is excessive. You should also learn to listen to the arguments of others and no longer think that shuffling in your seat will bring media attention. I see the press and I suspect that they will most likely use this moment. Then can I continue now?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u114	Mr President, I believe that Mr Calvo is mistaken on one point, because I believe that everyone knows who is the real boss of this government. Mr Dewael, you mentioned the devaluation of the franc. I would like to return to your statement that it is particularly painful to see how low the level of activity of older people in the labour market is. This is a painful finding for each of us. You pretend that part of the political spectrum, in particular the left, is satisfied that many older people are on the sidelines in our country. You should look at what has been going on in the labour market for a number of years to this day. If, in difficult economic times such as today, there are closures, reorganisations, dismissals or collective redundancies, then older workers are usually the first victims. Even today, despite the calls made by employers, despite the calls made by employers' organisations and governments, it is still the 50-year-old who is being pointed out first. Mr Dewael, you should take a look at the attempts made in the past, when we were together looking for measures to give 50+ additional opportunities, and you will see with what little interest business is looking at the 50+ to recruit. Equally painful are the examinations and analyses related to applications. Find out who gets the answer and who doesn't. Mr Dewael, I believe that there is a broad political consensus to tackle this problem. I also believe that there is a great deal to be said about the failure in the government agreement, in government policy and in what is now in store for effective results. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u115	Those are considerations, actually, it's not a question. That is all right, although we agreed that each group leader could make his point. That then is systematically interrupted, that does not bother me, you do so. But you did not actually ask me a question and neither did Mr Calvo. I am not going back to what I think is the finality of social dialogue, and I have replied to that. Mr Calvo, I can only observe that democracy and leadership mean more than scaring people and then chasing fearful people in an attempt to recover them politically, with the idea that the evil people will vote for you in the future. From a green party, I'm surprised. In the case of a green party trying to make a gap with other left-wing parties, I can only observe that the objective of all your opposition action is to target a particular union and to say that you must come to you because then it will all be different and better. Secondly, you don't have to come to me about the differences of opinion within the government. I have experienced the open debate culture from 1999 to 2007. The open debate culture was denounced by fellow Members on the Christian Democratic side. Mr Van Rompuy asked what kind of chickencock that Dewael government really was. Well, we came out as different components for our opinion and clarified our political views in Parliament and then there was a government that, to its regret, made a decision. That decision was always made. It was a way of debating which was then perceived as extremely refreshing and which was greatly cultivated by your predecessors, Mr Bonte and Mr Calvo, by Steve Stevaert and Mieke Vogels. So don't forget what you worshiped yesterday, because at that time you thought that was a fantastic form of new political culture. I come to my next point. What is the finality of this government action? Of course, our country is not an island. If the economic situation in the world and in the European Union continues to slacken, it is, of course, an illusion to think that we, as a small country with an open economy, are capable of fighting it. What we have to do, and what is our damn duty, is to ensure that we are involved, that we have eliminated our structural handicaps, that competitiveness is effectively restored, that work is again more attractive than non-working and that people feel like getting back to work. Those are the challenges that we can face. I am convinced that, in the event of a revival of the economic situation, we as a small country could not only go along, but could even take a lead, while, if we do nothing, we risk remaining hopelessly behind. In that context, I am thinking of the Netherlands. I have also sometimes looked critically at Dutch policy and thought that the savings made there would disrupt the economy. Well, today I find that the Netherlands is looking at an economic growth rate of 1.5%. I am not talking about Ireland, a country which has been put under curatel and which has had the courage to take action, which can bring it back with us. There are other examples, such as France. I'm not gloating about that. I note that at Mr Hollande's meetings things were sold in the area of capital tax, wealth tax and so on, which sounded like music to the ears of all of France. Today people know better. It is a liberal banker who has to put his house in order in Mr Hollande's government. That is the reality in France. I have seen that during the campaign the PS applauded the fantastic meetings where Mr Hollande finally won his victory. But, Mrs. Onkelinx, if you're talking about polls, you crois quöil atteint 16 % pour le moment. That is the degree of confidence in the French Socialist President. That is not the example that will inspire me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u116	Mr President, Mr Dewael, I am not surprised that you take the Netherlands as an example. Growth in the Netherlands has indeed increased. What you do not mention, however, is that inequality has grown incredibly, that unemployment has risen very much and that debt has also increased. So you are only here to improve one category from a few categories, but not to help the whole population and everyone. That proves the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u117	Since Mr. Dewael quoted me, I would like to answer him. Since then, you have been teaching everyone lessons: lessons to the opposition, to the left, to the Greens, to the trade unions. Then you bomb your torso and say: "We decide! What, then, is this challenge?" A little more modesty! And if I may, you speak a lot of courage: "We must have courage", "Where is the courage among the socialists?", "Where is the courage in the unions, as before?" But what is your courage in relation to shareholders in relation to dividends? You had it, at some point, under the former legislature, with what you did on the liquidation bonus. Where is that courage for the time being? It is much easier to tackle, on the ground, the modest people who will lose hundreds of euros, rather than looking for ways of capital that can participate in the effort. Finally, you quoted France. Know, Mr Dewael, that in France there is a tax on big fortunes and that in France there is a tax on capital gains!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u118	The French example of the rich tax does not give rise to much inspiration, because it has not solved anything, it has yielded nothing and it has led to a capital flight. Unfortunately, capital is difficult to grasp within certain limits, unless, Mr Calvo, it is advocated that a new wall be built, and it is thought that the rest of the world can be closed down. I don't think that's possible. I'm looking at the Minister of Finance. Many of the solutions that need to be found in this area are solutions that need to be found together with our European partners. If you want to be the most punished in the class, you often fish behind the net.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u119	Mr Dewael, imprecision can work when we multiply the oratory effects, but at some point we are caught up in the facts. For ideological reasons that belong to you, I saw your supporters, on the benches of the Open Vld, applaud when you said that the tax on great fortunes in France was inconclusive and that all great fortunes fled their country. As you know, we not only have a geographical proximity to France, we also have a common history. She's got old administrations that look like ours. Among these services is the Court of Auditors, which includes the Council of Compulsory Taxation, which annually reports on all French taxes and, in particular, on the tax on large capitals. What are we looking at? Since the introduction of this tax by François Mitterrand, the number of people subject to the tax has doubled, its yield has been multiplied threefold and it earns a good year wrongly from four to five billion euros. The departure of tax-payers on large assets is 0.1 per cent per year. These are the facts, Mr. Dewael!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, people are being deceived, and they are fairy tales, that there are solutions that are completely painless. The slogan "Let the rich pay the crisis," is more topical than ever. I am not surprised that this percentage is high in public opinion. I hear that 84 % would agree with such a tax. Will we then look at what is meant by such a tax? Are we talking about moving power? Are the real estate assets included? Is it about capital gains? How should we determine this capital gain? Who's here to determine and evaluate it? I assume that this is why we need a power caster, with everything, but that is not what we are saying. What is characteristic for many people is that they think that tax does not apply to them, but only to the people above them. They think they're not rich. A rich tax sounds good, because everyone thinks it's not meant for him or her. Well, if that rich tax is intended for the real rich, it will not produce much, especially in the European context. However, if it is the intention, Mr Calvo......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You'll be chasing them again to bring them in. I'm continuing my reasoning. Power, Mr Calvo, is something for which you have already paid taxes on each of the various components to put it together. So it is a lie when people say that there is no capital tax in our country, worthy of that name. European studies show that we are at the very top of the list in terms of personal taxation. As far as capital tax is concerned, we are in third or fourth place. We pay withholding tax. We pay personal income tax at the highest in the world. We pay property tax. We pay inheritance tax. So we have different types of capital tax. The study service of sp.a has shown, in a good report, that in the evolution of revenue from the various forms of taxation, capital tax has grown much more in recent years than taxation on persons. Don't say it doesn't exist, Mrs. Temmerman. I have just been asked whether we will reduce the measures taken in the previous legislature, such as the winding-up bani and the raising of the withholding tax to 25%. That's not the point. So do not say that nothing has been done in this area in the past. I only have one question for you, Mrs. Temmerman. In Europe, Belgium is one of the countries with the highest taxes on labour. We tax labour more heavily than caviar. Labour must be a huge luxury product, because we tax labour more heavily than caviar. Belgium is in fourth place in terms of capital tax. When will the comrades be satisfied? If we're number one everywhere? Will they then be content? If we are champions in all possible forms of taxation in all possible disciplines? It'll be without us. I have just called this the monster of Loch Ness; everyone talks about it, nobody knows what it is right and nobody knows the repercussions. However, it is something that is said to be able to bring in painless money for the government, so that we can spare the other people. That's a lie. I will conclude, Mr President. What's in the coalition agreement? For me, the coalition agreement is, after all, still something that the parties want. It states: "The government will control expenditure and implement a parafiscal and tax shift in order to finance a sufficiently large reduction in the burden, significantly reducing the tax burden on labour consisting of tax and parafiscal charges, taking into account national and international recommendations in this area." The present budget includes a tax shift of more than 2 billion. I hardly dare to sum them up, but it is all about measures relating to excise duties, wealth and so on. Moreover, the Minister for Finance has yet to implement some of these measures. A tax shift has therefore been carried out to effectively finance the reduction of the burden on people. Mrs Temmerman, you deny that, but that shows that you are completely in bad faith. Indeed, a good annex to a newspaper was sufficient to make it clear that the reduction in personal income tax, which starts from 1 January 2015, because it is passed on to the company tax, and with a budget cost of 900 million, was sufficient and will effectively result in the index jump being so misguided that it does not affect people's purchasing power, quite the contrary. Thanks to the rate of implementation of the welfare envelope, which you can only dream of, because you never got it done in the previous government, the lowest incomes, the benefit recipients, the pensioners and so on are spared. In other words, a tax shift is taking place at the moment. Open Vld believes that for the future the coalition agreement prevails. However, I will not impose any conditions on that. We are looking at the Minister of Finance, who will implement in the government the passage on burden shifting. I would like to make one point. If there is an effective shift, the beneficiaries must be for us the persons who pay taxes through the personal income tax. We don't want a shift to fund the government in addition. We do not want a shift to support the companies. No, the personal income tax in our country, which is among the highest in the world, has to go down. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my last word is as follows. My argument has shown that caricatures make policy, spread lies in the streets and spread the concern of many people about measures that will be taken, in my view, if one tries to exploit them, is not a good way to go. We do not need a new class struggle. We must not beat up differences between labour and capital, between rich and poor and between old and young, by saying: there are we and there are they. Those contradictions aren't gonna make anyone any better. The political agreement before us, which is translated into the budget, is a very balanced agreement. It also contains an important perspective for the future. Mr President, I would like to end with the wise words of Frenchman Pierre Mendès France on the concept of democracy. "Democracy is much more than the practice of elections and the government of the majority. It is a type of morals, virtues, scruples, civic sense, respect for the adversary. It's actually a moral code." Those are words that can lead to inspiration about how we deal with each other here and how the social partners could find each other. Mrs. Onkelinx, you don't think I'd choose my last quote from a source that's strange to you, do you? I chose that last quote because you would applaud at the end of my speech. Prime Minister, we will give you our confidence with conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u121	Mr Dewael, I fully agree with the latter. I started my speech in the same way. However, I can only say that after the majority speaker, the opposite is being said here. You were talking about caviar. It's like the people who make the caviar for the others that you keep hitting. You mentioned disinformation. You say that we can only dream of the welfare envelope. Excuse me, you're talking about the welfare envelope about 100 %, but it's 84 %. You take some off first, namely the index jump. The index jump is calculated throughout the career. That's not what you're saying. The runways will be abolished. The income guarantee is halved after two years. We will have to work longer for less pay. You are also talking about a shift of EUR 2 billion. I have just shown in my speech that more than half of the cases mentioned have been postponed. So that shift is not here right now, Mr Dewael. You have also said that she will not be there either. I hope that the CD&V colleagues have understood this correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u122	Mr Dewael, in all your intensity you have forgotten your ballpoint pen. It was a real spectacle! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief and leave the necessary space for my favourite colleague, Jean-Marc Nollet. A great deal has also been said in this debate. I would like to do three things in my speech. First of all, quite obviously, I would like to dwell on the budget that is now before us. That is not unimportant, it is even normal to look at the current budget during a speech. As a second element, I would like to present our alternative, which we proposed yesterday from our Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Thirdly, Prime Minister, I would like to look back on the first 67 days of your government. Our criticism of the coalition agreement was clear and twofold. In our criticism, moreover, we are also different from other groups. On the one hand, we believe that budgetary efforts are unbalanced, because they are passed on to ordinary families, to people who work, to people who are already struggling today. On the other hand, however, very important in the year of the UN Climate Conference and with a view to Paris 2015, we see zero ambition on the environment. That was our evaluation that we conducted in this assembly when presenting the coalition agreement. It's actually gotten worse ever since. I will not go over the whole calendar with you, but I would like to mention some of the measures that have made it worse since the introduction of the coalition agreement. The Prime Minister said in the Chair that from 2015 the tax benefit will be 250 euros, by reducing the personal income tax through the flat-rate deduction for professional costs. In the end, that was 125 euros, so disinformation. Over the index jump, a simulation of the impact and distribution between families and companies was made in the coalition agreement. According to the FPS Finance, this impact is different, because it is stronger for the families and much more lucrative for the companies. Disinformation. One hundred and twenty-seven million euros of compensation would be enough to compensate for all benefits, so that beneficiaries would not feel the index jump. In the end, only partial compensation will be granted. Disinformation. According to Minister Jamar's table submitted to the government statement, the bank contribution would be EUR 100 million. Today, however, the bank contribution is not certain or at risk. So things are getting worse and we are constantly confronted with disinformation. In this way, this government has actually ordered new manifestations day after day, week after week, inciting social displeasure. In the second part of my speech I would like to talk about the budget. We have had interesting debates in the Finance Committee. The majority was absent too often, Mr Verherstraeten, but nevertheless we have had interesting debates. I would particularly like to thank the chairman of the committee for taking the initiative to invite the European Commission to our deliberations. That was the first time. We also had a very interesting session with the Court of Auditors. I therefore find it interesting to consider this in this general discussion. For me, this is far more relevant than the inflation of history lessons that we have already received here. What does the Court of Auditors say? The Court of Auditors has made the exercise for us what revenue is overrated and what things are not well substantiated. You will not be told, Mr Van Overtveldt, why you and the competent Secretary of State, Mrs Sleurs, only spend 75 million to combat tax fraud. The Court of Auditors also questions the impact of the savings. Defense, Justice or cybersecurity, the list is made. Mr Nollet has consistently applied the exercise to the budget. Your answer to that was quite inadequate, Mr Jamar. Not only is there a difference between the budget and the Court of Auditors' estimate of EUR 321 million, and according to Mrs Temmerman's estimate of EUR 400 million, but the Court of Auditors has also shown the differences between the calculations made by the officials of your administration and your own calculations. For example, there is the index jump. Why the index jump is a foolish measure, we have talked about it before. You have also come to tell us that the index jump is budget-neutral and that it is fairly well distributed between the government, the families and the companies. However, the assessment of the FPS Finance is completely different. I won't go over all the numbers. I did write them down. There has been a great deal of discussion in committee on the budget. Not only does the index jump appear to have an antisocial character, it would not be budget neutral for Entity I either. What kind of foolish measure, ladies and gentlemen, is this index jump? I note, Mr Van Overtveldt, that you are making selective use of the figures of your own administration. If it suits you well, you will use it; if it is less interesting for your government, you will display your own figures. Again: disinformation! Let me talk specifically about the budget. Mr President, I would like to ask you to indicate once in a while how long I am talking so that there is certainly enough time left for Mr Nollet. We are not yet a single party, but we are sharing our speaking time nicely. Mr De Roover, that is just cooperation, that has nothing to do with confederalism. People in politics who work together, they can. I know that this is unusual for this government, that it is more common there to argue, but there are people in politics who, although they do not have the same membership card, agree, who properly divide their speaking time and who also say the same thing. Mr Nollet and I are going to say the same, there is a line in our group, there is a line in the opposition, it is not the Mexican army of your majority, Mr De Roover. What do we see when we look at this budget? Numbers don't lie. There was talk of fearful, conservative people, caricatures were made and so on. Mr Dewael, should there be an appraisal of caricatures, you would have made a substantial contribution to the state funds budget in the last hour. The year 2015 will be the year of the index jump, the year of the wage freeze. You say to stand up for the working people, but you freeze all the wages, even where there is room for storage. In the budget, we also see EUR 1.4 billion in savings in social security, part-time work, pension bonus, waiting payments, temporary unemployment. People who are fighting, who want to work for our society, are getting a bunch of savings in social security from this government with this budget of EUR 1.4 billion. The year 2015 will also be the beginning of the end of SNCB. This saving of 2.1 billion over the next five years starts next year. There are almost no more trains, the services provided in the new transport plan, which Mr Van Hecke is undoubtedly going to say in the context of the more thematic discussion, is already getting on the nerves. Well, the savings at SNCB are initiated here in the 2015 budget. The year 2015 will also be the year in which nuclear interest rates are reduced and so on. On the other hand, there's the tax shift. Mr Dewael, where do you get this EUR 2 billion? You should check or construct that for us, because I do not see that tax shift you are talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at fair contributions, I see only EUR 80 million of stock market tax for 2015. In the year of the index jump, the year of the wage freeze, the year of EUR 1.4 billion in social security savings, there is on the other hand EUR 80 million stock market tax. After all, in 2015 there is no browsing tax, which is for 2016. In 2015, there is only 80 million euros of stock market tax, compared with 1.4 billion euros of savings in social security. That's not usually explained to a middle party. That is the distortion in this budget: there is no transparency fee yet and no capital contribution yet. I had done the exercise and will just give it to you, Mr Verherstraeten. What is for someone else a closed door, a door that is folded shut, is for you a door that is open. A CD&V hand is apparently quickly filled when it comes to openness about the tax shift. I've done an exercise with government officials' statements on the tax shift for less than two weeks. I didn't print it recto vero, which is actually totally against my beliefs. I've come to three pages of conflicting statements about that tax shift. Then one can only see that one group is very clear and is tolerated in that clarity. Mr Dewael can just say here today that the tax shift is not socially important, but is a monster of Loch Ness. He doesn't like that and he won't change his mind. Mr De Croo gets away with saying in Reyers Let's say: "No, the capital gain contribution is not there." You, Mr Verherstraeten, are looking at that with your familiar grin, your familiar smile: that's funny in this government, they're laughing in my face and I have no problem with that. Be as clear as Mr Dewael and Mr De Croo on that, stop playing with the people's feet. A tax shift must come now, not tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, at least there must be clarity about the plans. Or will you ask another chamber committee for tax reform? You have been in the government for 20 years, and every legislative period you have advocated fiscal reform and a parliamentary committee. There was also such a talk barracks during the previous legislature. That was then to maintain Open Vld: one had to get rid of the cliché of the tax government and so a chamber committee had to come up with the tax reform. That was a talk barracks. Shall we do that again now? You must now clarify the most important social yard for this government. You will not get the social protest quiet, and rightly so, if you do not say today, Mr Verherstraeten, and please do so: "Yes, we will ask for a contribution to the greatest capabilities. There is no doubt, that is not the monster of Loch Ness, that is not a door that is closed, that is a door that is wide open, that is the path we will walk. Please be clear about this, Mr Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u123	Mr Calvo, you spoke just now about the caiman tax and its proceeds. No revenue is expected in 2015 and 120 million euros in 2016. You called this peanuts. May I refer to your own draft budget which you presented to the press yesterday? In 2015 you also expect no revenue and in 2016 120 million euros. This is a copy of what we intend to do with this government, and that is what you call peanuts today. I think that's a bit contradictory. You would like us to repeat ourselves and keep repeating ourselves. I'll tell you again. I quote the coalition agreement: 'The burden on labour weighs too heavy in personal taxation too. In this context, it should be considered whether a shift to taxes from income other than labour, indirect taxes and/or eco-taxation is possible. It is true that there is an agreement in the coalition. Yes, Mr Calvo, we are going to do so, but in accordance with the procedures I have already mentioned this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, what Mr Verherstraeten has said is incredibly clear. Yeah, we're going for it. Yeah, we're gonna do our best. Mr Dewael has been much clearer. He said he didn't change his mind. Mr De Croo said that there would be no capital gains. You're saying there might be one. You'll try. Be as clear as your colleagues in the government! I won't let you say you need time to do that. You've been able to decide on other things very quickly. You also decided that index jump on one-two-three. You have also decided that EUR 1.4 billion in social security savings for a year. This is a government that claims to be ambitious, freed from the yoke of socialists and suffocating conservatism. This should give oxygen to do things. After several legislative sessions with Parliament's Committees on Tax Reform, you are at peace with the fact that this measure will be examined. I'm just coming to a quote from Koen Schoors. We have a problem with the index jump and with working up to 67. There's nothing wrong with that attitude, either. This has nothing to do with blindly following someone. This has to do with listening to people and showing empathy. Our group has a problem with the retirement age and the index jump. Mr Verherstraeten, an interesting thought is the statement by Koen Schoors. He suggests that if it were only the retirement age and the index jump, the swell would never be this big. That's right. The key to everything to economic revival, social peace and political stability is, after all, clear here and now to all the people who work in this country and to all the people who really do business in this country and are only just sitting in front of their computer, indicating that there will be a capital gain in no time and that the government is committed to doing so. However, that clarity cannot be given to you. So I'm wondering: quid CD&V? Quid Kris Peeters? Stop fooling around with people's vesicles. Mr Van Rompuy, you can still say that it will be without your party.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u125	Mr President, Mr Calvo, you are indeed clear. Green and Ecolo have taken a very clear position. They said yesterday that there can be no index jump. Nor can there be any question of saving one billion euros in social security. There should be no increase in the retirement age. Savings from SNCB must be removed. We've got to get rid of savings at the Justice Department. The extension of the nuclear power plant's life and any savings must be eliminated. What they do want is an EUR 8.5 billion tax increase: a reduction in the benefit for commercial cars, a capital gain tax, an added value tax and a reduction in any tax deduction when it comes to matters relating to mobility. So you're very clear. You do not want to make any savings in any way or in any way. You want to clear up the whole deficit that we have and that we have to make up for Europe with tax increases. I must confess, I've heard a lot of things here over the past few years. You seem to accept the European framework, which indicates that we must have a zero deficit in 2018, and I hope that Ecolo-Green will accept that framework. Well, I have never known a political party that states that it accepts the European framework, which also indicates that we need to become more competitive and that we need to eliminate a wage handicap of 4% or 5%, but who wants to do so without savings, only with massive tax increases of between EUR 8 and 9 billion. That is the clarity of Green. You come here to teach games to parties who have the courage to look for better-spread efforts in all areas. Mr Calvo, we are indeed in favour of a capital gain tax. We shall come to Parliament with a proposal on this matter. However, it has never been said that it should be introduced under the 2015 budget. There will certainly be a moment in 2015 when the debate on this issue will not be avoided. What form and proportion of capital gains tax will be taken, we will ultimately have to decide here in Parliament by means of a law. However, stop the accusation that there is no clarity. You're clear, but your will is simply to bankrupt the country. You are a young Member of Parliament. Well, if we were to implement the Green programme, that would be a tragedy for the young generation. That would result in a debt explosion and the bankruptcy of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u126	We have here a very interesting and creative interpretation of the concept of tax shift by Green. This has already been mentioned by the previous speaker. However, I would also like to quote Mr Calvo for a moment. Mr Calvo is good at quotes, we noticed that this morning. Mr Calvo, I would like to return to your quote from Professor Schoors. I understand that if the government, as the Prime Minister says, comes forward in the spring with a project for a total or a substantial tax revision, the index jump and the increase in retirement age are digestible. Green will thus join this coalition from spring onwards. I'll be curious. You're more than welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u127	I'm a little perplexed. Has that proposal been passed on to the real Prime Minister? He decides, normally not you, Mr De Roover, as Mr Michel usually does not. Anyway, all the madness on a stick, I was very clear about this when I referred to Mr Schoors. I have made it very clear that we are clearly contesting this index jump and that we would obviously never accept an index jump. We dispute working until 67. It is clear that we would never accept that either. I think, however, that Koen Schoors has a point, hence the quote "if he says that realising that tax shift here and now, instead of wagging about it on one hand, would be a very important lever, also for social peace. The greatest feeling of dishonesty that lives in society does not refer to the fact that people have to work a little longer. Our plan also included the ambition to allow people to work longer on average, to close the gap between the effective retirement age and the current statutory retirement age. The widely behaved feeling of dishonesty and unfairness arises because certain people, the most powerful in this country, spring up the dance at the time when such an effort must be made by ordinary people. That's the problem. Hence our plea for immediate action. Mr Van Rompuy, I have heard you passionately plead for the future. You say you stand up for young people. Well, together with you, I am delighted to present the coalition agreement versus our alternative plan to every university in this country and we will hear what young people want. Do they want old recipes on the roof of young people, waiting benefits, people who are having a hard time, or do they want new ideas like those of our group? You call it all taxes; that was your main point. You just told me to be careful to quote from the newspaper. I suggest we spread the exercise we have made so that everyone is perfectly informed. Then Mr Van Rompuy can see that there is a very big difference between what we are proposing and what the government is proposing, for example on a new policy. I'm reading the numbers. Michel: EUR 3.7 billion for the new policy at cruising speed in 2018. In our view, with a substantial reduction in the cost of oxygen work for SMEs, the figure is 10 billion. We cannot compare one exercise with the other if we do not take into account the substantial reductions in costs that we are doing. You also call it a veto against savings. Absolutely not. There is a saving in health care, a reasonable growth standard, the fight against medical overconsumption. We are planning EUR 1.8 billion in savings in health care. We believe that this can be done more efficiently. We also believe that every euro should be spent properly. In public services, we are planning EUR 1 billion in savings at cruising speed. Don't try to make a caricature of our plan. There are indeed contributions from the greatest assets, from fraudsters, from speculators, from large banks, but also a substantial reduction in the burden for people who work, Mr Van Rompuy. Our proposals on capital tax, which I say by heart and with a great deal of conviction, are no longer the same. This is a global reform, which also abolishes the existing unfair capital tax and trades in for a progressive tax on capital gains. The biggest tax reduction for the middle class in this country's history is our plan for the taxation of capital gains.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u128	I am not quoting from the newspaper, but from your website: automatic indexation of excise duties 51, tobacco 500, intercommunals 213, excise duties 313, winding-up 500, financial sector 500, TOB 684, third pillar 300, tax fraud 1,200, capital tax reform 3,500, nuclear interest rate 216, equity value 434. That gives a total of 8,548 billion. I'll quote your grades. You're very inventive. I'm just quoting your figures, which are 8.5 billion. However, you also have even less expenditure: the non-indexation of tax expenditure.................................................................................................................................................................................................... You are also hiding billions of taxes on other items. In fact, you are making an even bigger tax increase than that 8.5 billion. You also want to give 1.5 billion to the Flemish Region, without state reform, and perhaps also to other regions. I do not even find any mention of this in your tables. Your accounts don't add up. During the election campaign, your party was the worst student in terms of the accuracy of the financial programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u129	It's the other way around! Peeters had to adjust his program three times.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u130	Here you do that again, but at one point you are champion, you are the tax champion!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u131	Mr Verherstraeten, I will go over the figures with you. I have indeed said that we are opting for a number of new, different revenues. I read, together with you, the wage bonus 1.5 billion; a reduction in the employer's contribution 1.5 billion; an increase to 100 %, not 84 %, in the wealth envelope 1.7 billion; the purchasing power of the self-employed, 200 million instead of 150 million. The greens cross the blues when it comes to the purchasing power of the self-employed. (...): In theory.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u132	No, not in theory, in our table. I'll get back to the numbers. The reduction in the corporate tax rate for SMEs, where it is the most profitable, is close to EUR 3 billion. So our picture is not unbalanced and does not win the World Tax Championship, but it is a clear choice for other taxes. When it comes to taxes and being champions, you are the champion on the one hand in taxes. You are the champion of fiscal hypocrisy. This government is the champion when it comes to tax injustice and maintaining it with a smile. That's the championship you win. You cannot say that the accounts are correct and clear and the other time the accounts are incorrect. What's the problem? That it hurts you that there is a fraction standing up that takes into account what people in the street, people of the ACV, the KWB and the students think, and that those people can agree with that. You should know how many people from that periphery told us after yesterday, by telephone or by e-mail, that there is finally an alternative and that they would have expected it from CD&V, but that, fortunately, Ecolo-Groen exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u133	Mr Calvo, you have taken the word hypocrisy in your mouth. However, I suggest that you look in the mirror. You are proclaiming that you want to take 7.5 billion taxes from assets, while you said this morning that you want to spare the middle class. Well, I won't use the word hypocrisy in that regard, but it's a contradiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u134	Mr President, I would like to cool down Mr Calvo's enthusiasm for marrying Ecolo. If these thoughtful measures had the slightest chance of success, one wonders why the first achievement of the PS and the CDH after the elections was to exclude Ecolo from their governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u135	Mrs Onkelinx, Mr Piedboeuf asked you why you kicked the most progressive party in Wallonia and Brussels out of the governments. You may have to answer that in the cafeteria. Mr Piedboeuf, at least I think that the Walloon Government would make different choices with our fellow Members of Ecolo than what we see today with the PS and CDH, which is quite similar to what we see at federal level. One day we may be in the Walloon Parliament together, who knows. If we're one party, we can come up with anything. Well, then we can consider that. I'm speeding up, because I have a lot of things to say. I understand that it is annoying for you, Mr Verherstraeten, that Members here confront you with your party program and with the roots of the middle party, which has once been CD&V. I understand that you find that annoying and that you insist on moving, but as long as you continue to make those choices, we are sitting here with a great deal of conviction and we will expose it. I will skip a lot of things that I have prepared to refute the caricature that Mr Verherstraeten makes of our plan. I can look in the mirror in the morning. The plan is entirely in line with our pre-election positions. So I have no problem looking in the mirror. I wonder if that is the case for you as well. When it comes to the middle class, our system of capital gains tax, a capital return tax, frees the 50 % lowest power to the median power. I repeat this with great conviction. If you choose our system, that would be the biggest tax cut for the middle class in our country. Indeed, a much larger contribution from the 15 percent richest people in our society is required. I think that's fair. That's the difference. You ask for this contribution to the unemployed, recently graduates, nurses, teachers, often also SMEs, while we ask for it from someone else. That's the choice. That is the difference between the Ecolo-Groen plan and the majority plan, which you still support with the smile, although some partners laugh at you with an equally big smile when it comes to the tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u136	Mr Calvo, you are actually saying that a capital efficiency tax should bring about 3.5 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u137	Yeah, the federal payoff.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u138	Anyone who owns more than EUR 250 000, including his own home, will be subject to that charge. That, of course, explains how you find 8 billion, because the own house is counted against the EUR 250 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u139	Wrong, wrong!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u140	Mr Calvo, then I read that Green, in one movement, will abolish all capital taxes. The inheritance rights are abolished, the gift rights are abolished, registration rights are abolished, the withholding tax is abolished and the property tax is abolished. I want to be serious. With your proposals, the previous Minister for Finance says that the Flemish budget is a dead end. If you carry out your reform, this would mean the end of the financing through regional taxes of the Länder' budgets. In order to get that approved, you even need a two-thirds majority in Parliament. You actually want to put the tax shift through right now. Anyone who owns more than EUR 250 000, including his own house, will be taxed by you to find 8 billion. Next, you want to implement a new state reform tomorrow to abolish inheritance taxes, registration fees and inheritance rights. Well, that's not serious! You are constantly talking about party political contradictions here, but the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is putting these things on paper! Mr Cheron, presenting this to people as a serious alternative is truly a new political culture in the 1960s. You're kidding people.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u141	New political culture of the 1960s? Those are trauma dressings from...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u142	Mr Calvo, Mr Van Rompuy has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u143	Mr Calvo, I'm going back in the past. I had a certain respect for you, because I didn't know you personally, just on TV. However, I have seen you here for two months. You are a caricature of a political party's leader in a caricature, with great consequences for the prosperity of the people, if your plan is implemented. Mr Calvo, I am as good as you, and I can do the same. You've been drowning here for so long! Well, I will repeat your programme over and over again. That's to be ashamed of!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u144	Mr Van Rompuy, I know why you are addressing me. I know why you say I'm a caricature and so on. After all, that's the only time CD&V gets applause. That's the only time. Because what does the majority agree on? The opposition, when it comes to the past, as Mrs Onkelinx has done since 1988. When a group leader comes to speak from 1987, who says something other than what you are doing, you want to talk about it, because you do not agree on the rest. You're divided about the rest. So I know very well why you're bringing that up. But that's not the essence. The essence is the budget and the fact that you do not get the tax shift realized. You don't agree on that. So I understand why you're intervening. And when it comes to the capital efficiency tax, which we are proposing, we are not married to any system. But indeed, there is the biggest reduction for the middle class. In our global fiscal reform, existing capital taxes are abolished and exchanged for a much fairer system and a much more progressive system. That does not require state reform. This can be arranged through cooperation agreements, as Mrs Crevits is trying to conclude one for the smart kilometre tax. Finally, if you stumble over the system, we are open to it. We are a better ally than your fellow Members of the majority. If you stumble over the system, don't trip over the tax revenue. I have here the latest report from the Supreme Court of Finance. The Supreme Court has mapped out for us what room there is for a tax shift, what room there is for a capital gain contribution. On page 15 of the report, the Hoge Raad talks about 4 billion euros in federal revenue in taxation. So don't come and portray us as radicals or hippies who can't count. The Supreme Court of Finance has made exactly the same calculations.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u145	Mr Calvo, first of all I would like to suggest that you intervene technically correctly. To claim that a cooperation agreement can amend the special financing law is, with all due respect, incorrect. I have the impression that you have not even read the special financing law, the amendments of which were approved only a few months ago. This requires an amendment to the Special Financing Act. This requires a two-thirds majority. This requires a state reform. However, I understand that Green does not want it for the next five years. Please be correct! Secondly, you want to abolish all taxes at the regional level. There are, for example, the property tax, the withholding tax, the registration fees, the inheritance tax. They will also not be budget-neutral, not for the regions of the region, but also for the municipalities. The incentives on the property tax for local authorities amount to nearly 2 billion. Well, I'll invite the CD&V residents of Mechelen to explain all over Mechelen that with your tax shift, which will hit everyone, because it's 250 000 euros including its own home, the Mechelen will have to pay with it. That is unrealistic and technically incorrect.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u146	I've come to Mol to explain our system.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u147	Mr President, Mr Calvo, you have just quoted the report of the Supreme Court of Finance. On page 15, the Hoge Raad van Financiën talks about a uniform tax on savings income. They are therefore in favour of globalisation of the various forms of savings. They want to tax these savings at an effective rate of taxation of savings income, which will be close to the highest marginal rate of income tax. This means that the tax rate on savings is doubled. That's right. That's the 4 billion. This means that every saver in Flanders, Wallonia or Brussels will be doubled. Is that Green's view that the effective rate of taxation of savings income should be increased to the highest marginal rate of income tax? 'Cause that's exactly what you quoted. The revenue is estimated at 1 GNP point or indeed EUR 4 billion. You just said it. Is that what you mean? For you have tried to lecture us by saying that we do not know our files and do not know what the Supreme Court of Finance has said. Is that true or not? Say yes or no for once!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u148	CD&V hasn't answered all day and now we have to say yes or no. Mr Van Rompuy, yes, I know which reports I quote and yes, I know the impact of our proposal. And I'd like to discuss that for hours. I say to you, let us work together to achieve a tax shift, not of EUR 10 million, not of EUR 100 million, but indeed of billions of euros. That is what we have done in our plan: a substantial reduction in labour costs and a shift towards the greatest capabilities. I honestly do not understand, Mr Van Rompuy, if you are looking for friends or allies, there is already a parliamentary majority for a capital gain tax that you are trying to push those people away. We support you in these proposals, we are not married to any concrete proposal. But I am sorry that we say the same thing before and after the elections: as long as there are no arguments to change our minds, we will not do so. We want to work together around that tax shift, please. That is a very different position from that of Mr Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u149	Mr President, it is becoming increasingly interesting here, especially when we talk about alternative proposals. Mr Van Rompuy has quite rightly referred to the problems in your proposal. You are talking about a levy of 8.5 billion and, of course, that will affect the middle class. The question is, of course, whether this will be sufficient. You say that you want to replace all existing capital and capital efficiency taxes with a new tax. Take a look at Eurostat's website. You can see the proceeds of taxes on dividends. What does that bring along with all the other taxes on stock? All of this is taken together there, everything, including on stock transactions and on equity gains. This brings up as much as 4% of GDP. Our GDP is a small EUR 400 billion, 4% of which is EUR 16 billion. So you're going to replace your existing tax with a new tax that's barely paying half and you can grant other discounts. It's got to fall from the sky or something. I don't know where you're getting that from. Apparently, that's a Green calculus.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u150	Mr Calvo, I suggest that you continue your show, as in committee. Your plan is not correct, your figures are wrong, and we discussed the tax shift in detail in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. Turns out what? It is true at Green that for the first time a tax shift is effectively in a government agreement. Even all the years before in all the legislatures, even when Green was allowed to be part of a government, no tax shift was put on the table. Now you're using it from the opposition to swing the tax shift from far away. It is indeed the first time that the tax shift is in a coalition agreement and not because of Green.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u151	Mrs. Smaers, you'll be satisfied very quickly. That's remarkable too: CD&Fers still have so much trauma of purple green that they always start over. It's very strange, because it's been a while. We can certainly organise a separate committee on this, in which I would like to talk about our proposal. Let us not forget the fundamental choice that we have to make, which is made by the government and which we want otherwise. It is a question of who is taking the effort. Is it being balanced, as is the case in our plan? Will the taxes look different in 2018 and 2019 than today? Or are we getting more of the same and the effort, as in your budget, Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Van Rompuy, is being carried by the ordinary working man? That's the most important choice. After all, you are making a choice. After all, there is an alternative and that makes the debate so fascinating and so rich. I would like to dwell briefly on the last 67 days. I notice the Prime Minister's been gone a while. What have we seen in the last 67 days, ladies and gentlemen? The formation lasted a long time. From the start, the leadership was unclear. First there was someone who didn't want to be Prime Minister, then someone who would become Prime Minister, but it didn't end up being Prime Minister, and finally someone else who didn't get control of the team since then. It was a turbulent start in Parliament - a shared responsibility - but also outside. After all, there are ministers and secretaries of state who seem unable to behave as they should be expected from ministers and State Secretary. Mr Vuye, it is particularly about your ministers and secretaries of state. The majority had to pull out all of the four's tricks in the Chamber. She spoke about the opposition's style and accused her of playing procedural games; she showed brutal force on Parliament's agreements not to talk about the substantive choices. The Prime Minister called on the government yesterday to speak with one voice. There was a vice prime minister who said she was tired of the mother-in-laws. There were vice prime ministers and party presidents who, on the eve of a strike, literally and figuratively set fire to the fuse. That is the bill of 67 days of federal government: division, division and once again division, in the government, but even more so in society. This is perhaps the biggest price that our beautiful country with its incredible potential pays for this government: division between employers and employees, between immigrants and natives, between French-speaking and Dutch-speaking people. Every day, Mr De Roover, the government brings conflict. Not only does it make wrong choices, it also has a corporate style on which the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats makes it very clear that it does politics in a different way. Every day, as a twelve-member bilingual group, we show that cooperation is necessary in our country. Our country needs this cooperation more than ever. Finally, this will not be the last debate. We've made our drill. I am very aware that this is how we are vulnerable. Of course, therefore, we are criticized, but we knew that in advance. However, we have done our homework. We've been clear. That is also necessary at a time when you are trying to talk to us that there is no alternative, for there is an alternative. There's gotta be another way! It can be greener, it can be more social and it can be more efficient. I would also like to invite everyone, including colleagues from the opposition, to make a similar exercise. We cannot accept what is now before us. No one can accept that. That is why we are not going to approve this budget with great conviction. We have read the documents with great attention. We hope that you will study our alternative with equal attention and with an equally open mind. This is an alternative in which I think a lot of people in this country can find themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u152	In the absence of the Prime Minister, I will turn to you, gentlemen, and of course to all colleagues. It is true that this budgetary debate is part of a growing climate of mistrust and the social movements of recent weeks show how this climate of tension is going to crescendo. Belgians are becoming more and more divided. On the one hand, there are those who absolutely want to get rid of it, sometimes even in excess, and on the other hand, there are those who simply want to be able to work. In your majority, there are those who tend to call for consultation, without, however, recognizing it, giving themselves the means, and those, often from outside, step-fathers, step-mothers, who do not stop blowing on embers, who fuel conflicts rather than seeking to temper and renew the dialogue necessary for the proper functioning of our country. The Prime Minister is still absent, but you will give him the message. He called on the members of his government to stop the statements that fuel and outbid controversy. All these banana skins are glided more particularly under the feet of the Deputy Prime Minister who is now in charge of trying to re-establish social dialogue. However, it did not take even half a day after the Prime Minister's request that one of the deputy prime ministers of that government put another layer of it. Today, it must be noted that all these government statements for several weeks, but also this draft budget, do not contribute in any way to reassurance. This project does not reassure us because, although the Prime Minister has announced a huge negotiating space, we are still looking for this so-called gigantic negotiating space. In fact, just as quickly, the Prime Minister closed the door by refusing to discuss the points which are nevertheless an integral part of the usual scope of the social concertation, whether it be the jump in index, the legal age of the pension at 67 years or the elimination of all qualitative incentives at the end of career.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u153	Your budget doesn't reassure you either, because its content is intriguing. It is indeed right to expect a budget to be credible, effective and equitable in the efforts it requires of the public. It is, of course, from the point of view of these three questions that I will review your budget. Is your budget credible? Is he on the road? I have loved, I confess, the way in which you rejoiced at your so-called very beautiful European newsletter. But what you are not talking about, what you are not bragging about, is that Europe has already sent you back to the second session at the beginning of next year. You will have to go back to the European magnifying glass and, whether it is at European level or at the time of the budgetary adjustment which I think will not be long, I fear you will pass a real part of it. Let us first acknowledge that between the budget presented to Europe and the budget presented by you today. There's no picture! There are entire sections of the budget that have changed badly. Just by counting the guaranteed salary for two months or by counting the holes – I will return – in the matter of justice, not to mention the rest, we arrive very quickly at half a billion. Yet no one will be able to accuse you of not trying in this budget to achieve all-round savings, linear savings. This is, of course, where the problem arises! The problem is not to want to achieve savings, but to make linear savings, all at once without any consideration of the policies and the means they need to be effective. To achieve savings in a linear, brutal way, without evaluation, without priority, obviously does not make sense because they run counter to the effectiveness of policies. In some places, it goes much further, since you have the right to question the reality of your intentions. Did you want to make savings or did you materialize budget gaps that you will be forced to fill in one way or another? Some will say that they will break down; others that they will wait for budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u154	I'm just taking one example for the FPS Finance Department. There are many more. The Court of Auditors has identified a shortfall of more than €106 million for this department alone. And not for anodizing things: the costs of justice and prosecution, the raising of the ceiling to benefit from the Maintenance Claims Fund, which will directly affect single-parent families. The Minister of Budget assured us that these amounts would be honoured. But with what budget? If I ask this question, at the limit it is not so much of the 106 million that I am interested in it, but it is about everything else. Why? Because it is the image of almost all government ministers. You have all, when we point holes, evoked the famous interdepartmental provision. It's magic, this interdepartmental provision! If we do the count, you've already used it at least ten times. Nine times, come on, Mr. new president of the MR! Nine times, I'll do it again. But frankly, this is not an interdepartmental provision as it exists today. In any case, it was invoked at least 10 times for the ad hoc amount. Now, if you multiply it by ten! Yeah. 100 million. Ten million, that's something else now. They're all making use of that provision. To fill all the holes, counting only those listed by the Court of Auditors: you can count, Minister, it does not count. Since then, moreover, things have changed a little more, since in the discussion of last week's programme law, you have added a series of amendments which will have a budgetary impact even though your budget is not even voted on yet. That's good, but in relation to that, it doesn't hold up the road. In addition, as Minister of the Budget, you mentioned that this provision should be reserved for unforeseeable or uncertain expenditures. However, each of the ministers referred to it to fund planned spending and mandatory spending. Besides these budget gaps, there are also gulfs. The summum of these abysses is clearly the Department of Justice. There it is the Berezina; I do not teach you anything. He had, however, been immunized from the budget during the previous legislature. Today, through the 2015 budget, you propose a reduction of 13%. I spare you all the figures that have been reviewed in committee. Remember that the adjusted budget for 2014 is not even able to cover the costs incurred in 2014. The SPF Justice also announces multiple unpaid invoices as of 15 November, for at least 186 million euros. There is even more serious and, if it happened elsewhere, perhaps we would laugh at it. But, frankly, there's nothing to laugh about. The Court of Auditors alerted Parliament on the issue of the insufficient budget to pay the appointed judges. So we find ourselves with magistrates who can only be paid 11 months out of 12 months. Justice is exsangued. It will be more so with the budget cuts that you promise, and yet there are staggering needs on every floor: in terms of operation, personnel, computerization, prisons, legal aid to name but a few. Your budget proposal will further strengthen the many challenges facing this department. You are announcing a Justice that will be more effective in explaining this budget, notably through computerization. At the same time, expenditure on IT investment, for example, for Justice is – understand who can – also reduced. This is the same observation that can be made at the level of the Department of Defence. To quote the Chief of Staff himself, who explains that the budget allocated for operations and training will be planed by 20%: 1 in 5 pilots will not fly, 1 in 5 companies will not train, 1 in 5 ships will not sail. This is not consistent! In the space of five years: €1.5 billion, 20% over the entire legislature. It's huge! Compared to the commitments you have announced and the policies you want to put in place, it is completely contradictory. As far as the credibility of your budget is concerned, the conclusion is self-evident: there are holes, there are gulfs. Your budget is not credible. The numbers speak for themselves. You will come back very quickly to the second session, both before Europe and before us in budgetary adjustments. Until then, the task will not be easy in the various departments concerned. The second major aspect I want to mention after the credibility of your budget is whether it is effective and fair. Much has already been discussed today, and a whole series of reforms are essential in this regard. Should we give a boost at the socio-economic level? Yes! Should pensions be reformed to ensure their viability? Yes! Is it necessary to clean up the finances so as not to carry the debt burden on the heads of our children and grandchildren? Yes! Do we need to improve the competitiveness of our businesses and do everything possible to increase the employment rate? Yes! Where we don't join you, it's about how we get there. First of all, I will start with all the policies concerning the economy, employment, tax reform, the whole issue of business competitiveness. The study of the National Bank has indeed demonstrated the creation of jobs, but only thanks to certain measures of your government: it is therefore the calculation of a partial impact. Since you seem to think that this is so positive - yet we have asked the Minister for Employment, the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee - why don't you ask for a full assessment of the impact of all your measures at the National Bank, why not also at the Planning Office? Why do you refuse to measure this impact and why do you, in essence, want to present to us only the impact of certain isolated measures? It's a partial analysis. This is obviously not correct and it would be appropriate to have an overview. As for the competitiveness of companies, you are announcing that you want to reduce social charges by 33 to 25%. In reality, the effective rate is already well below 33%, since what you are doing is recycling for a large part various measures of the Competitiveness Pact decided by the previous government to finance this reduction in the rate. In fact, you do not reach 25%, despite your declarations; today, to reach 25% of employers' contributions, there are about 3 billion missing. In addition, you did not plan to target these contribution reductions, while studies show a much greater impact when targeted. What is disturbing is that the reduction in the rate as you apply it reduces the comparative advantage currently enjoyed by low-wage workers. This reinforces the employment traps. You also wanted, you said, to encourage the people who work. In spite of this, your draft budget does not in any way specify the contours of a tax reform. Because an ambitious tax reform cannot be called an increase in flat-rate charges. For us, this is not an ambitious tax reform, all the more so, let us recall, that many people will not benefit from it, that is, all those who are at real expense. The benefits of the tax "measures" that you put on the table today will, for the most part, be largely swallowed up, for those who work, both by the index jump or by other measures that will seriously impact the budget of SMEs. Is it effective and fair? Let me still doubt it when we see that there is nothing major about the contribution of speculators - especially on compulsive speculation - and fraudsters. You prefer to leave the speculators who make the "jackpot" with a few computer clicks, rather than supporting those who get up in the morning and work 8, 9, 10, 11 hours a day. However, the economic situation clearly requires a shift in taxation – and above all a reduction in labour costs and taxes – to other sources. Creating employment, yes, it is possible by reforming taxation and being much more effective than you propose. "It's part of the government agreement." At the same time, beyond this rather vague inclusion in the government's agreement, there is nothing concrete on the table today. And it's quite incomprehensible. "Later!", yesterday, the Prime Minister said in his great oral communication. If I refer to everything we've heard in recent weeks, we can obviously doubt that. Indeed, we have heard everything about the tax shift. We heard "yes." We heard "never." We heard "maybe." We heard "why not?" We heard "yes, but no." We heard "no." In practice, the result is not much today. As far as corporate tax is concerned, no reform has been announced. However, the nominal rate in Belgium is one of the highest in the European Union. However, there are many possibilities to reduce taxes. When is a reform of notional interests - which today benefits the big multinationals to a great extent - to the benefit of SMEs, which are, let us recall, the engine of our economy? When are we going to move towards a reduction in corporate tax? We have tabled, through legislative proposals, a series of alternatives in the area of tax-exemptness, but also aimed at modifying notional interest for investment deductions and the reduction of corporate tax (ISOC). Is it possible to carry out an ambitious tax reform with the current means? Yes. It should be both much more focused on small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as on raising pocket wages. We are in a position today to propose and debate these alternatives, in any case I hope, in this Parliament. As far as index jump is concerned, I have already spoken earlier. So I will not come back to the subject. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that if, as you have said, the index jump will be corrected, it will be the middle classes that will not benefit from the compensation through the increase of the lump-sum professional fees – and I am not talking about those who opt for the actual costs – and who will be directly affected by this measure. One hears UCM bosses who speak in their personal capacity. Economists, who are not gauchos, have also been heard and have clearly called on the government to review this measure of index jump. It must be noted that the government has remained deaf at their request. These are not only proposals of the unions; they also come from certain employers. I think it would be healthy for the government to stop running around, since the leads are not just suggested by one of the two benches. Another issue on which there are great contradictions between the announced government objectives and the measures that are being taken is, of course, pensions. We share, of course, the priority of increasing the employment rate of 55-65 years old and gradually raising the real retirement age, both the first measures you take – moreover, by fleeing social consultation – clearly target the age – 67 years old – and the disappearance of all the incentives, qualitative and positive, to improve the employment rate of 55-65 years old – whether it is the pension bonus, as we have seen with the programme law, or the end-of-career credits. Do I dare to recall here that the so-called Pension Reform Commission, which has eminent experts, has pointed out that, by conducting a stick policy exclusively, you are going to obtain large parallel exits from the labour market? Professor Hindriks announces 40-60% of parallel exits from the labour market. As a result, with your pension reform, you miss the goal of raising the employment rate from age 55 to 65. I am convinced, however, that many people are motivated and willing to work longer, provided that their working conditions are improved qualitatively. Your strategy and the measures you propose undermine this possibility. You may miss the goal and lead to an increase in the disability rate and parallel exits to unemployment, when these people might have agreed to work longer, but under different conditions. The Tandem Plan is a good example of alternative measures. Many companies have developed positive measures, with positive results. We could learn a lot and change this debate in a positive way by listening to the expertise of the social partners. I referred earlier to the budget for justice and, in particular, to the contradictions regarding your government's willingness to make security a priority issue. It must be noted that the justice sector, which you are putting at a disadvantage in terms of the budget, is not the only one to present contradictions. That is true, you have renamed the portfolio of the Minister of the Interior, who becomes the Minister of Security, assuming the priority given by your government. I regularly hear in the parties of the majority the slogan "More blue in the streets". But with your budget, it'll be "less blue in the streets," it's very clear. In your budget, Justice has already cut its arms, but for the police, it's not stinging worms either! Almost 10 per cent of the reduction in the budget of the federal police and integrated police; instead of an additional 1,400 police officers per year, you increase to 800 additional police officers per year, which is largely insufficient for the proper functioning of the police services and completely contradicts your big statements and your desire to increase the security of citizens. Do more with less, go say! But we have already heard it! It is also understood that the State clearly wants to discharge its responsibilities over the private sector. That is what underpins this government's policy. I think this is a mistake, since functions as essential as police and security in our society must remain in the hands of the state. As far as security is concerned, I will not mention all your statements on the fight against terrorism and radicalism. In words and in verbs, it is a priority, but at the same time, the budget of the OCAM, which is nevertheless an essential organ, especially at present, in the detection of terrorist phenomena, decreases by 17%. The same is true for the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre. The same is true for the federal allocation of police areas: it is reduced. You declare more security and, through the budget, you prepare less security. I will address two more areas in which we find strong contradictions: gender mainstreaming and mobility. In terms of gender mainstreaming, does only one member of the government know that the 2007 law required it to analyse the gender impact of all the measures decided upon at the outset of the establishment of that government? Of course, we have heard or read the two or three small sentences on the importance of a policy for women. At the same time, Madam Secretary of State, have you measured the particular impact of measures taken by all departments on women? In the case of early retirement, women will be more affected by the measure, since on average their career lasts about 35 years compared to 45 years for men. In the case of unmotivated time credit, with a child under the age of 8, a motivated time credit is available, but when he becomes a teenager, the time credit is abolished. In terms of pension levels, women are overrepresented in the lowest pensions with 59% of women receiving a pension of less than EUR 1,000. With regard to access to the second pillar that you invoke by fleeing investment on the first pillar, it should be noted that only 18% of women benefit from a second pension pillar compared to 45% of men. Moreover, as the non-market sector does not have access to a second pillar, they will be impacted very negatively. As for the income guarantee allowance, you reduced it by half after two years, even more than half if it was a cohabitant. The reduction will reach the value of one month's salary. Beyond the words in your government agreement on the intention to pursue a policy in favour of women, the observation is clear: you have not at any time assessed the impact of your measures on the gender dimension, neither at the time of setting up the government, nor at the time of the meetings, nor at the time of each minister's policy notes, nor at the time of preparing the budget. In fact, you are completely out of the 2007 gender mainstreaming law. I don't know if it's because women are extremely minority in your government, but at least it's clearly challenging. Beyond the work of the National Bank and the Planning Office on the real impact of all the measures of your Government, I think it would be good if the Institute for Gender Equality could also provide an analysis, since you did not consider it appropriate in any of the departments to comply with the 2007 law.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u155	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u156	I would say exactly the same thing about the Walloon government, but unlike the federal government, it measured the impact on women of the measures that were decided by the government. I also find that in today's debates there is much talk of President Hollande, there is much talk of the past, there is a reference to other governments. But do you assume what you're doing in this government? Can you answer me now, right now? Have you measured the impact of all measures on the gender dimension? I'd be happy to hear from you on the subject. But I think the reality is that you have no idea! I'm going to do as I did earlier, mr. Van Rompuy: Is it yes or is it no?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u157	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u158	Calimero's policy: it's a bit of a shame!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u159	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u160	I still hope that he has understood the question, but I do not think he has taken an interest in it and that none of the ministers in this government has taken an interest in it. I will conclude, and I will say just one word, with the mobility policy, which is also the subject of contradictions between your budget and the priorities announced. We will return to this, as with a number of other topics, during the thematic debates. Again, there are clear contradictions between what you are announcing and your budget. Minister Galant said: "In order to continue the financial consolidation of SNCB and Infrabel, I will ensure that SNCB and Infrabel are able to meet the growing demand." And a cumulation – 663 million in 2019 – but a cumulation over the legislature of more than 2 billion euros! In these circumstances, I wonder how you will meet the expectations of the clientele. Safety, punctuality, quality of services are important for users. I cannot help but quote from yesterday's news about the ER: "The implementation of the ER will be accelerated and integrated into the SNCB transport plan." Madam, ministers, Infrabel, yesterday, clearly approved the budget on its board of directors and on the basis of the indications of the government, he planned, for 2015, 170 million savings but above all, he decided to slow down the large Walloon yards including the RER. Another contradiction! You don't seem to know, but that's the reality. You are represented on these boards of directors, so you can't be unaware, but the least you can say is that between what you say and what you do, there is a gulf and a lot of contradictions. Several ministers have told us as the policy briefs have been presented in recent weeks – I admit I loved them – that they have exceptions. Cultural exceptions! Good! Scientific exceptions! Well, important for job creation! The exceptions justice! We tried, but it wasn't easy! And let us not forget the exceptions to continue to fight more effectively against social fraud and tax fraud. But patatras! When we read the budgets – it's a question, but I'm not going to go back to each budget line here – the only conclusion is that there are no exceptions. That's the stupid, mean, linear rule. We cut heads everywhere, we don't try to target policies to be more effective, we make savings without trying to make them smart, by investing in priority policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u161	I would like to interrupt you very briefly. I also looked into what was said in the report on the question of exceptions. I'm going back to what Mr. Minister said. And as Mrs. Sleurs is here, she might also be interested. I read in the report that the minister clearly states... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u162	Madam Secretary, this is addressed to you, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u163	I would like to take the Minister's attention to a point which Mrs Fonck rightly stresses and which is related to this issue of the exception. The Minister of Finance told us in committee – this is in the report and it is contrary to what has been said in other committees – that the issue of the scientific exception still needs to be discussed. You tell us that there is a scientific exception in the same way as the cultural exception. However, the report makes it clear – and this is not a statement by the opposition but by the minister – that the scientific exception still needs to be debated within the government. This is proof that there is no scientific exception. Mrs Fonck is right in that regard too.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u164	There is clearly no response from the government. This isn't the first time! So we see – and I think I have sufficiently developed it – significant contradictions and incompatibilities between the intentions of the government, the statements of the various ministers, the so-called priorities of the government and the reality of your budget. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come to my conclusion. Is this budget credible? [[No]] Is this budget fair? [[No]] Is this budget effective? [[No]] It's three times no! We will therefore not support your budget. We have tabled alternative proposals for legislation, in particular as regards job creation, taxation and pension reform. I hope that we can discuss this here in Parliament. Prime Minister, as you are entering the sitting, I will end my speech with an appeal. You weren't there at first, but I'm not going back to what I said. Even if I feel you in a teasing mood, I'm gonna be serious. It's a call because there's something to be worried about when you see the overbidding of your government's statements and expressions. Despite your reminder to the order of your last Council of Ministers, it did not take a few hours for one of its members to hand over a new layer. In a great communication exercise, you spoke yesterday of a huge negotiating space. This is obviously only a lure, because at the same time you are closing the door to what is traditionally an integral part of the dialogue with the social partners. I think your course today is to force yourself. That's right. You're trying to pass the pill through your words. For about 8 weeks in the government, you've been talking about it with an open hand, but it doesn't happen one day without one of your partners, inside or outside your government, closing that hand and closing every time the space for dialogue that it can create. During these eight weeks, you and your government have chosen to go to confrontation rather than to go into dialogue. Yet, Prime Minister, you are in charge of social consultation. It is you who are the guarantor that this social dialogue can be held in good conditions and that it can succeed, including by putting strong and concrete measures on the negotiating table. We are a thousand miles from there! It is therefore up to you, now, to leave this path of confrontation and to return to that of dialogue. Take action! Today's urgency for all Belgians is to regain serenity to put the country back in the right direction. I agree that reforms are essential, but they must be effective, credible and fair. Turn also to the social partners because they can bring much to the debate thanks to their expertise. If I could make a suggestion for a conclusion, I would tell you to work with the social partners rather than against them. Yes, our country has great potential and the social partners can be very positive and very useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u165	Mr President, Prime Minister, your government has been in place for a little more than two months and the country has been slowing down for two months. You have chosen a policy of austerity and you are translating this choice into a budget that is socially unjust, economically inefficient, fiscally unbalanced and without environmental ambition! I will return to each of these points, but let me first mention the political situation. We are on the brink of a near-unprecedented national strike. The social movement extends from day to day, far beyond the unions that you regularly brocade and vilipend with the members of your majority. Prime Minister, it is necessary to be blind not to perceive the growing malaise in an increasingly large section of the population, which is experiencing difficulties in providing for itself, in housing, in feeding, in caring for itself, in entertaining itself, in moving around, in education and also in working. What do their main claims relate to? I've listed five. First, and if we listen carefully to the messages that are sent, we are talking about tax transfer; secondly, index jump; thirdly, pension at age 67; fourthly, the linear and blind aspect of a series of savings affecting SNCB, Justice, and cultural and scientific issues, we have just talked about it. Perhaps the fifth dimension is the most fundamental: I want to talk about the lack of hope that you offer to young people and those who are looking for work today. Let us consider for each of these points what your answers are. Moreover, we have already had the opportunity to hear your speech on television yesterday. Capital taxation? Not now. The Open Vld intervened earlier to close this door. The index jump? There's no question of seeing him again. The 67-year-old pension is inefficient and, moreover, entails additional costs for social security. Your answer? No way, we're not talking about it anymore. Door closed. Linear savings? We're on course, and so much for the consequences for the justice sector that will be unable to honour its bills. And so much so if the magistrates will have to wait to collect their wages or if, on the SNCB side, the passengers will have fewer seats and there will be even fewer trains at the stations and fewer stations to accommodate the citizens who have chosen this type of mobility. With regard to the fundamental question of hope and the future, your answer is very simple: there is no alternative. As if, in the name of this sacrosanct "invisible hand", the only option was for you to unblock our social and economic model and postpone the response to social, environmental and climate challenges. That's not true! There is, of course, an alternative. It is a choice to keep taxes on work far too heavy! It is a choice to maintain an index jump, while the citizens demand not to practice this index jump! It is a choice you make of wanting to keep the reduction in the statutory pension age at 67, while other ways are possible to increase the effective pension age. It is a choice that you make to withdraw - I will repeat the calculations with Mr Wathelet, because he is a specialist in budgetary matters - not 663 million in 2019, but in a cumulative way, we oscillate around 3 billion euros. Indeed, to the 2.1 billion that you are talking about, the government has been quick to add 150 million euros annually decided by the previous government but clearly not implemented. So we are oscillating well around EUR 3 billion in a structural way, while – this is a matter of political choice – the traffic jams at the entrance to Brussels, Antwerp and major cities cost the country 8 billion euros economically. This figure comes from the FEB. How can you say, Prime Minister, that you are turning to business competitiveness when, at the same time, you are removing the only possible alternative to traffic congestion, namely public transport. Three billion euros of structural savings in the mobility sector, trains at the federal level, 3 billion euros accumulated under this legislature, while at the same time, congestion costs 8 billion euros each year. Don't you mind - and my colleague Calvo told you earlier - there is an alternative! It is easy, Mr Van Rompuy, to mock this alternative, to cause tension around certain elements. But if you take the time to examine the balance it presents and the big parameters, the big options, you will notice, Mr Van Rompuy, that before working on expenditure and revenue, there is first of all a political choice fundamentally different from austerity: that of investment. [[Others that we also choose for this choice.]] When Jean-Claude Juncker, at European level, believes that in order to be able to imagine a future for the European Commission and, therefore, for Europe, we must also start with a choice of investment. In this case, it is a choice of austerity. Our alternative plan involves investments in energy efficiency, in transport, in everything that is conducive to the future and generates local employment at home. That is why, because there is an investment, the new policies, which you are not talking about - and you have the figure since you looked at the table - amount to 10.527 billion euros in our alternative proposal. Indeed, behind this investment choice, there is a fundamental difference with the choice of austerity, with the small billion truly new policies that this government is making. But if you don't put in place that turbo we're talking about in our alternative, then don't think you'll have enough results in five years. Others that we're telling us. In times of recession, in times of economic contraction, the public authority must invest more than it does in other periods. You refuse this alternative but it exists and it is encrypted. That is why I wanted to present the main thrusts of this reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u166	I think we're all for investment. Why would we be against that? At European level, there is a large package of over 300 billion to be financed through loans at pan-European level. I fully support that, which should have been done a long time ago. Here in Belgium, however, investment policy rests with the Regions. The investment policy for public works, energy and school infrastructure is at regional level. Now, within the framework of the ESA directives, we in Europe have to pay for investment immediately in cash. Dirk Van Mechelen is here and he knows these mechanisms very well. Loans for investment are now included in the debt. This brings us to the debate on the debt and the balance of the budget. In addition to investments in some buildings and in SNCB, however, very few investment materials are still federal. So I don't quite understand how the federal government -- we are here in the federal Parliament -- can bring about a revival through investment. That is a regional competence. There is a problem that John Crombez deals with every week. We need to include school building in the budget, we need to have a large budget deficit and so on. The same applies to the Oosterweel connection. The investment policy is now a regional responsibility for 90% of investment, and there is now the European obligation to include investments in the budget, where they were previously financed by, for example, PPPs. If you're talking about your big alternative to investing 10 billion, then I have big questions as to whether that will solve the federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u167	Mr Van Rompuy, you have – I think – done well to take a different tone than the one you used earlier. You are entering into the debate on investment choices and the role of federated entities. And you're right. Perhaps not on the figure – I don't know if the figure of 90% of regional investment out of total investment is a very specific figure – but nevertheless. Now, with the same wisdom, take time to read our budget plan in detail. You have it because it is accessible, unlike the government table. We broadcast it, first on the internet, then made it accessible to everyone, even before we had a photocopier problem. So I wanted to reassure you: it is accessible, Minister of Budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u168	Mr. Jamar, we're talking about numbers. You may mind, but we are in an important debate with Mr. Van Rompuy. Speaking of numbers with Mr Cheron, it's not always... (laughs) Mr Van Rompuy, I come back to you on the issue of investment. In our investment plan, of course, we take sole responsibility for the federal part. You mentioned it yourself: SNCB requires investments. Energy efficiency for buildings, that's part of our plan, you're right. You can pull us on that one. Energy – and we talk about it regularly with blackout – also has a federal dimension. But the same policy – the same investment choice – must indeed be carried out also at regional level. It is not ten billions that carry exclusively in investment; there is, in the ten billions, the necessary investment. But I did not say that the ten billion were the only investments, I said that there were ten billion new policies. In fact, some of the lines developed in the government's proposal are also included in our proposal. On investments, I'm glad you can join this foreground of the alternative. Other principles of our alternative: tax transfer. I think there is an urgent need to be able to make a real tax transfer from labour income to capital income. Here too, I am speaking to you because I know that you are a man of dialogue whenever you wish. Others, in your own party, said that we could not see enough in the budget where capital was called upon to contribute. That's right. But in our alternative, it's something that's present. And what about notional interests? Today, they no longer make sense, Ministers of Finance and Budget. Prime Minister, my remarks seem to shock you. I will read you an excerpt from the words made by the father of notional interests, Mr. Colmant, published in Le Vif/L'Express, not so long ago. The journalist asked him: "Does the government trust the invisible hand too much? Some people deplore, for example, the encouragement of enterprises without any other employment constraint." This is a criticism that we are also making. Colmant, former collaborator of Mr. Reynders, said: "This is true of what happened for the notional interests that I had initiated at the time, and I pleaded guilty. I thought that the market would follow its own path and create jobs, which was not true. I made an error of judgment..." – it is the father of notional interests who says it – "... but we were in a time when the recapitalization of companies was the main issue. This criticism is not false, but it contrasts the market economy that plays on the supply side and a more state-of-the-art view." And he continues: "If there are tax incentives, today they should be linked to investment and employment. The renovation of Belgium should be conditioned by a joint investment and employment effort, a simulation of risk-taking and audacity". That is our alternative, Mr Van Rompuy, beyond the figures. We can talk about it again in committee. That is what we are defending in our alternative plan. An alternative exists. It is up to the government to deal with it today, at the latest. Indeed, we know very well – you were present, you were presiding over the committee – that the European delegates have come to tell us that anyway, in March, this government will have to represent its budget. Enjoy it!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u169	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u170	A second session is an evaluation, Minister of Budget. You'll go and explain yourself. Still, in March, they will look at whether you have indeed been able to put in place the necessary and sufficient measures, which is not the case at the moment. May I invite you in this context, to take...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u171	(...) asks us to go further in our measures. That's the big gap at home!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u172	Mr President, as Mr Jamar is asking me a question, I will answer him. We know that in March, an appointment is set for you. Take advantage of the Christmas holidays to look at the table: you will see numbers and a balanced result. Of course, this budget makes courageous choices, which we could discuss. Moreover, as Kristof Calvo said, it is not closed and there are several possible options on the "tax shift". Nevertheless, it is a matter of having the will to do so. I'll make it up to you. Remember this gift I gave you at the first committee meeting where we had the opportunity to discuss the budget lines and the guidelines of your general policy. We have dedicated Thomas Piketty's book to you; take advantage of the holidays to read it. You will see how much it is necessary today to follow the alternative we propose. You have until March to realize this, but you will not have a third session: apart from the advice issued by Europe, there is a social movement that expects from you other answers than the austerity that you have chosen for the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u173	I should now give the floor to a member of the Flemish Interest Group, but no one is present. As a result, Mr Maingain has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u174	Mr. President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the examination of a budget and, fortiori, of the first budget tabled by a government that takes office is always an opportunity to have a more in-depth examination of the economic guidelines underlying the budgetary choices of the new government coalition. In short, your government is rather obsessed with the German model, the so-called German model. This has often been heard in the interventions of a number of leaders of this government coalition: the process of labour reform in Germany from Schröder to Merkel, the reforms on purchasing power and wages in Germany are a source of inspiration, which Merkel is still trying to sell or impose on all the member countries of the European Union, and especially on the countries of the euro area. Today, however, very good economists in Germany question this so-called German model. I refer in particular to the economist Steffen Lehndorff, in his book The triumph of false ideas, which the daily newspaper Le Soir has echoed recently. It shows that today in Germany, more than one in five workers (22% of the employed) earn less than two thirds of the average wage, which is the definition of a low wage. Today, Germany is facing a substantial loss of economic growth. As a result, it may no longer play its leading role in the European Union. The best economists show that the loss of economic growth is due to the decline in the purchasing power of German families and households, as a result of the decline in labour incomes. This alarm signal, which is increasingly mentioned by economic observers, must lead us to reflect on whether, in Belgium, we are going to follow the same logic, leading us to the same conclusion that the economy of our countries in the euro area is at risk. When we see the latest developments in economic indicators, it must be recognised that in Belgium, the low GDP growth recorded in the second quarter of 2014, is due not only to a negative contribution of exports to GDP but also to a decrease in investment and a decrease in household incomes. Therefore, everything, as you do, on the sole criterion of the competitiveness of enterprises at the expense of wages is an economic choice which will sooner or later lead to an impasse in Belgium as in the rest of Europe. Of course, the problem of the competitiveness of enterprises cannot be neglected, and I will return to that. But today, your economic choice is to consider that wages, and even net wages in pocket, are the enemy of growth and support for economic activity. By the way, the wage freeze has already been decided by the previous government. I'm always happy to hear that the MR is the alternative, but the MR lived together for 19 years with the Socialist Party in the federal government. The alternative is very relative.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u175	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u176	Well, yes! The difference, Mr. Clarinval, is that I assume it, but you no longer dare to assume it today. That's your trick of hypocrisy. But it doesn't matter. Make it look like it's the so-called alternative! The wage freeze was decided by the previous government. You maintain this choice and you amplify it with the index jump. I remember Mr Chastel's debate with Mr Di Rupo; he defended himself with ardour, with a fury, saying: "Never will we make an index jump!" I can go back to the debate on community television with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u177	Mr Maingain, we are a little surprised, on these benches, from the trial that you are doing to the index jump, as long as you had it in your program.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u178	Yes. I had the courage to say what I would do.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u179	You're going to vote with us, then.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u180	That's not what you do. Let me explain. I protected all low and medium wages, up to 3,500 euros. You have to read the programs, you have to listen. That's where you don't get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u181	Everything was in the shade!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u182	Everything was in the precision and intellectual rigor, which sometimes escapes you, indeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u183	You have tabled an amendment, of course?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u184	Indeed, in my program, I had intellectual honesty, in the election campaign, to assume what you denied. I said that up to 3,500 gross euros must be guaranteed the indexation of wages, because the purchasing power of low and medium wages must be guaranteed. But for all those who earn more than 3,500 euros, for this part over 3,500 euros, I have the courage to say in my programme – and I keep it because it is socially fair and economically necessary – that it can be cut because your treatment, like mine, must not be indexed to 100%. The salary of the Governor of the National Bank must not be indexed to 100%. I had the courage to say it, but I also had the courage to say that maintaining the purchasing power of the lows and the wage means must be preserved at 100%, which you do not do. I will give you very precise figures because I heard Mr Michel again last night not reply clearly as to the loss of income for low and medium wages as a result of the index jump and the low compensation for the deductibility of costs on a flat-rate basis. I take two examples for income that is not very high. First of all, I take the example of an isolated person who receives a monthly remuneration of 2,500 euros gross, or 30 000 euros per year, assuming that the additional rate to the PPI in his municipality is 7%, which corresponds to an average in all the municipalities in this kingdom. With the index jump, it will lose 600 euros gross, i.e. 330 euros net and it will gain 190 euros by the gain of the increase of the flat fee. The loss therefore amounts to 140 euros. That's the result of the year-round loss. Now let's take a couple whose income is 62,400 euros a year. It is estimated that one earns 5,200 euros gross per month, the other 2,100 euros gross per month, still in a municipality where the additional cents amount to 7%. Together, they lose 1,752 euros gross, or about 780 euros net. The increase in flat-rate charges is only EUR 250 in this case. They therefore have an annual loss of 530 euros. Here's some numbers. Prime Minister, you say that they are totally false. Then give me your calculation! I have no problem with that. I'm waiting for your calculation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very simply for the serenity and quality of the debates. A political discussion on the opportunity, whether or not to make an index jump, I fully respect this democratic debate. The parties have spoken at length on this subject and I will return to it in my reply earlier. As far as the figures are concerned, when some make estimates or, Mrs Fonck, when PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) makes estimates, I ask to consider several substantial parameters in order to arrive at correct figures. First, should indexation take place as early as January 1, 2015? No, if indexation occurs, it will be in the middle of the year, around June, July, or even September, depending on the sectors and on the committees; never at the same time. But the calculations you express, like those of PwC, start from the assumption that indexation would occur on January 1, 2015. That's not right. Secondly, the calculation of the flat-rate professional fees must be carried out for 2015 and 2016 since the measure, as announced on the first day of the presentation of the flat-rate table in parliament, is staggered: twice 450 million over 2015 and 2016. As a result, for all wages below EUR 2 000 net per month, thanks to corrective measures, there is a slight gain from the assumption of wage indexation. Over 2,000 net euros per month, the result is a loss of around ten euros per month, taking into account the impact of the tax compensation decided by the measures we will be voting on this Friday. That's the reality. You can sing all the figures you want, I challenge everyone in this Parliament to challenge the truthfulness of the few figures I have just presented since we take into account the fact that wage indexation will have an impact in the course of 2015, with effect in 2016 as regards the tax compensation decided in the framework of the measures recommended.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u186	Mr President, the Prime Minister gave that answer yesterday on television. It was examined by a university professor who, this afternoon, gave his analysis, his own figures and contradicted what the Prime Minister just said. Prime Minister, I shall finish, at least temporarily. The question is why, while several parties have asked in committee to receive this calculation category by category of the population for 2015, but also for 2016 – when we are in full year, in cruising speed – knowing that it is over the entire career that the difference will weigh, you do not present the figures when we are gathered in committee and why, at the end of the debate, you are getting us new ones that have nothing to see and that are contradicted by university professors. Come to committee and give your numbers and tables, since you say you have them! We can suspend and watch this together! You say some things we can't verify. How can you be trusted when the figures are not shown in the tables?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u187	Prime Minister, when you present the figures in this way, you obviously do not take into account the annual cumulative loss caused by the index jump. A single index jump does not only have an impact on the current year; it will also have one throughout the career, but also in terms of pension. Then you do not correct the index jump for the middle classes. You do it for low wages, but not for average wages. When you invoke a lump sum fee, it is not a complete correction. On the contrary. Many people will not be able to benefit from it, especially all those who are at real expense. Therefore, come to explain that the figures of the opposition, but also those of PwC, are intoxicated, and that those that experts will communicate to us are also, simply because they are not at your side on the bench of the government, it is – let me put it to you – taking people a little bit for jerks.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u188	Mr President, I share Mrs Fonck's analysis. Prime Minister, in fact, the index jump is cumulative and the lump sum reduction will be linear from year to year. In other words, with your flat-rate discount, you do not absorb the cumulative index jump. I therefore agree with Mrs Fonck's analysis. For the rest, it will be remembered that what is going to weigh on the household budget is not just an index leap, it is also a whole series of other measures, for example in the field of health care. I am not going to repeat what Mr. Maingain or Mrs. Fonck have said. I also agree with Mr Nollet. Unfortunately, Prime Minister, your reasoning is not valid!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u189	Prime Minister, you are forgetting another element that seems to me to be quite fundamental. Who will pay this lump sum fee increase? It's the worker himself! This is indicated as such in the government agreement, through an increase in indirect taxation. Don't say that it compensates for index jumping since you pay for it yourself!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u190	Monsieur... Mr. Calvo...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u191	Mr President, we are a common group, so you can also greet me in French. No problem. Prime Minister, we are getting to a very important point. With Minister Van Overtveldt, we have had a lot of debates in the Chamber of Finance about the real impact of this index jump and the difference between the figures of the FPS Finance and the figures of the government. You are referring again today to figures which you seem to have at your disposal. I also see a table on your table. I think it is very good that you give Parliament those figures, which simulate the results of the index jump. You are fully committed to this measure. Well, then, make those figures public. Mr Van Overtveldt, we have had good debates, but it is a fact that figures are now available for a simulation of the index jump. In the Chamber where we discussed the budget, you did not give it, despite a number of opposition questions. I don't understand, and I'm having a hard time with that. Mr President, I propose that this table be copied and distributed. The sitting does not need to be suspended for this; this can happen quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u192	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u193	Mr Calvo, you refer to the debate we have had on the assessment of the payback effects of the index jump and the differences between the figures of the government and the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors, in turn, relies mainly on figures from the FPS Finance. You certainly remember your question at that time was where the difference came from. That seems to me to be an important point in the context of the question you are asking. I call upon the chairman of the Finance Committee as a witness, so to speak. We have then overnight, within 24 hours, provided a very detailed calculation you will remember that note to explain where those differences come from. In essence, that had to do with two things. First of all, several databases were used, namely national accounts, RSZ files and so on. Moreover, the way in which the index jump unfolds is a complex fact, depending on collective agreements, the time at which the index jump takes place, timing and so on. I remember very well, when we gave all that explanation, that your only conclusion was that there is a difference. Excuse me if I might say that a little bit boldly: it was just the point of the whole exercise that we explained that difference. So I don't think it's right for you to claim that the government doesn't hand over any figures. After all, the government does give them, the government explains and argues. Of course, you'd want to look at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u194	Mr. Secretary, that's not what this was about. This was your exercise and you have argued why your figures differ from those of the FPS Finance. The FPS estimates the impact of the index jump more strongly than the government. However, Mr Michel has another document in front of him. He quotes new figures on the index jump for families and for the entire period. In fact, we asked you for those figures. You have outlined a methodological background, but not the impact for families year after year. The Prime Minister has other tables and documents. I therefore suggest that he announces it. You are proud of the index jump, which you find a fantastic measure. Then put those numbers on the table so we can verify them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u195	Mr Calvo, the members of the government will hear you and your comments. If they do not respond, I cannot possibly oblige them to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u196	It wouldn't be weird if a President-in-Office supported a Member's question. It is not forbidden to support that question, Mr Bracke. You could call on the Prime Minister to make those figures and documents available.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u197	The members of the government have heard your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u198	Mr President, I have no intention of participating in theatre or cinema at all. The parliamentary debates deserve serenity, seriousness. Mr. Maingain has expressed orders of magnitude which I formally contest. I have explained the arguments on the basis of which I contest the figures quoted by Mr Maingain. You are free not to be convinced by reasoning. We will have in this Parliament, on many occasions, an opportunity to debate the economic and social policy of this government. Personally, I would like to see further debate on budgetary matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u199	Mr President, yesterday on a show, I heard the Prime Minister always say "in full transparency, I tell you the eyes in the eyes". I think I've heard this formula, which had to be prepared by her communication coaches, at least half a dozen times.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u200	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u201	This is nothing arrogant! It is simply a reminder of your words! If you don't like to be quoted, I'm afraid you have a problem. But I'm not the one with a problem. So you used to say "transparently" on several occasions. I want to hear that you're challenging numbers, but give them up! It is still your duty as an executive before Parliament to put all the information on the table and possibly allow experts to analyze your data. And even when a university expert challenges your numbers, you say he's the one who's wrong! In short, what you are telling us today reminds me of what you were saying during the election campaign about the tax reform proposed by the MR. I remember the last party presidents debate on RTL. In fact, last night, a small excerpt was taken, in which you announced with absoluteness and serenity - and without arrogance - that you could guarantee to a certain category of income 350 euros net/month of supplementary income without that cost to the state budget. It was virtuous! Without it costing anything from the state budget! Perfectly! Go see the excerpt on RTL-TVI! Your tax reform was going to cost nothing! She was virtuous by herself. One wonders why, if she was so virtuous, you did not include her from the beginning in your policy statement, in your government agreement. Where did your election promises go? "The creation of a rate of 0% for the first income bracket up to €13,000" after which you had to adjust when KUL made corrections to the budget estimate of this cost. You then said that it was for salaries up to 50 000 euros. Where has your tax reform gone saying that the threshold at which one in two euro earned by the worker is only tax should be substantially reduced? Where did you go with your tax reform announced by the MR - always virtuous reform, which cost nothing to the state budget - to remove the 30 and 45 per cent tax brackets? What happened to your tax niche reform? I could still talk about VAT! I remember seeing bikers with you. Urbi and orbi were going to reduce VAT to 6% on all bikers' equipment as soon as a new government took office! What happened to the abolition of the solidarity contribution on pensions, of which Mr Bacquelaine has done a battle horse here for years? We were together, I supported him. He was right! Where'd it go? [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u202	He was in a very good position to remove the solidarity contribution. It was one of his favorite themes. You announced all this during your election campaign and there were people who believed you! Many people probably believed in the tax reform that you were going to achieve by substantially reducing the tax burden on labour income. And you don't! You do not do so because you do not agree in your majority on the necessary budgetary compensations. That's the difference! Intellectual honesty wanted us to say, in the election campaign, how we compensate for these tax cuts on labour income.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u203	Mr President, the debate is very interesting and the Prime Minister has entered it trying to challenge the figures once again. Prime Minister, I would like you to be able to see the situation in which the debate is taking place. Yesterday, you announce on television that people will win, in any case a certain category of the population. Today, you are being shown the opposite and you are speaking in this Parliament to tell us that you have your figures and that you can show us that this is not the case. What's stopping you, what's keeping you, what's bothering you in giving us these numbers since you're so sure of yourself? We can look at by category of people, year after year, the real situation, the real impact of your index jump – not in macroeconomic terms, we had the debate with Mr. Van Overtveldt – but in microeconomic terms, for the people's portfolio. What impact does this jump have for families, for citizens? If you want to be able to respond to criticism, Prime Minister, give the picture! Perhaps it is because you are not certain of your answer that you continue to assert without demonstrating things! Give me that painting. It would be so simple! Otherwise, you will no longer be able to be trusted in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u204	I would also recall that the Federal Office of the Plan announced that indexation would take effect, in any case for the public sector, in February. Besides, when you tell the other powers that thanks to index jump, they eventually earn a non-expenditure, regardless of this amount won by other levels of power...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u205	There are impacts on the community's extras.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u206	I'll take the reasoning I'm given. Of course there are impacts on the additional communal and so on. But regardless of the assessment of this index leap as to the reality of financing the lower or subordinate public authorities, the truth is that this calculation is valid from February onwards. You calculate it from February and not from the second half of the year. So you have to be consistent in your reasoning. If what you claim to be a benefit on one side from February onwards is no longer an advantage for the same period in calculating the reality of the tax consequences for the taxpayer, you are continually distorting the basis of comparison. So I'm coming back with your election promises in tax matters. Where are they? They are not there when you claimed that they were virtuous and did not ask for budgetary compensation. You now realize that they were not financially sustainable and that they are asking for compensation! You do not want to open a debate that even the Supreme Council of Finance, which is not a protesting body by definition, advocates. What, if I remember correctly, did the Conseil Supérieur des Finances propose in its report last September? For example, to standardize taxation rates on personal income at 25%, which would not be a tax assassin. I am not in favour of confiscatory taxation of movable income; I am not in favour of taxation that would discourage savings and investment. A uniform rate of 25%, that's right, it's an additional 1.1 billion revenue gain for the state that you can then allocate to a reduction in taxes on labour income. Because, the truth is, the worker will see almost nothing – with the exception, perhaps, of a small category, and again! – your adaptations to his income from work. You have also made a choice of a linear reduction in social security contributions that even the President of the Union of Middle Classes denounces. I was rereading Mr Godfroid's statements, and I'm going to find them for you, which was kind of crazy about your proposal for a linear reduction in social security contributions. I have also read the Minister's reply, "It is the nominal rate that attracts investors", except that 75% of jobs in Belgium are created by SMEs, much more than by foreign investors. And what Mr Godfroid says in a free forum - it is not someone who is far from you, I know -: "If we want to support SMEs which create more than 75% of jobs in this country, if we are to address the problem of unemployment, which mainly affects the least qualified people, we must also, and above all, reduce the employers' burden on modest wages. For the economy and employment, one cannot be content with a measure, which is certainly spectacular, but which would benefit large companies. Leaving SMEs aside would be contrary to electoral logic and promises." Second failure of your fundamental electoral commitments. I sum up: your key word is the reduction of taxation and para-taxation on labour income. Well, I challenge you to prove to me, at the end of your government statement and at the end of your 2015 budget, that you have achieved the objective you announced on RTL-TVI's antennas during the election campaign, namely that a couple who earn about 60,000 euros gross per year would see for each of the two spouses a net gain of 350 euros per month. That was your commitment; I'm waiting for you to prove it to me at the end of your statement; I'm waiting for your numbers!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u207	Good evening, everyone. Goedenavond iedereen. Today, I also come to fulfill a promise. In the last few weeks, I've been travelling around the country a lot. I've crossed Belgium a little bit before the social struggle. In the social fights, in the cafes, in the families, I met a lot of people. Every time I met people who said: "Raoul, I want you to tell them. You have to tell them all these ministers, what we live in." During these meetings, I allowed myself to take note of all their small messages in a small red notebook. It's a little cheaper than an Atoma. I have taken note of their various messages so that I can express them to you here in Parliament today. Many debates go through our society. That's very positive. Our democracy is being reinvigorated. There is no company, there is no family, there are no friends where there is no discussion about the political programme, about Belgian politics, and that is very positive for our democracy. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not fully understand how much debate is spreading today in society as a whole. You would be very surprised at the result of the mobilization that will be born in the coming weeks. The first story I want to tell is about Bea from Antwerp, 42 years old. Prime Minister, Bea says that the government and Bart De Wever must stop saying that we are all on the same side. On the branch on which she lives, she must be ready every morning at 06:00 to work all day for 1 450 euros net. That is different from the branch on which Marc Coucke lives, Marc Coucke, who has just put EUR 1.5 billion in his pockets and paid EUR 0 taxes. She said: "Tell Charles Michelo for me, and I tell you today that we are tired of the government doing everything for the rich and not for ordinary people." Well, Bea, I told him. I think Bea's right. We see today that there is a great debate in society and that efforts are really unfairly divided. More than 20% of the Flemings say that. Efforts are poorly distributed. The efforts are always supported by the same small shoulders, while the large shoulders should bear them. If I wanted to tell you this story today, Prime Minister, it is because we must stop making everyone believe that everyone is equal in the face of austerity: 840 families own 84 billion euros in our society in Belgium. Stop saying everybody's on the same boat! Let us stop saying today how equitably the efforts are distributed. Mr Piketty, a renowned economist you certainly know, shows it point by point. The evolution, the political and fiscal decisions taken over the last 30 years – I agree with you that unfair measures have indeed been voted for – this evolution makes it the small elite above society, i.e. 1 to 2 per cent of the population, who today benefit most from all of our measures. I think that today it is this social debate that must be called into question. No, we're not all on the same boat! Today, many workers work in the hold while many rich people are above, on the deck quietly navigating in the sun. Let me give you a second little anecdote. I meet Ahmed of Liège, 52, at a picket. Listen to what he tells me! "Thirty years ago, we were told that we had to make efforts to reach the end of the tunnel and that it was for the good of our children." He's obviously talking about the '80s. "Today, 30 years later, it is to my own children that we tell exactly the same story, that we must make efforts to get out of the crisis." Mr Michel, I would like to say to you - Ahmed, I say in your place: stop coming here to find solutions to the crisis. You can see that this is not working. I think there's a popular truth in there. For 30 to 35 years, people have been told that the end of the tunnel is near, that we are going to get there, that we still need to tighten our belt a little bit, and that in the end, we will be able to get out of the crisis. For 30 years, however, we have not come out of the crisis. I think it's time to ask why. The reason is very simple, it is that austerity measures lead us straight to the crisis. We have already mentioned the measures imposed in Germany, which was still Belgium's great example a year or two ago. The German locomotive is out of order. Why? Because wages have been compressed in Germany. This leads us straight to the recession. Today, we are told: "It's great! With all the efforts made, there is already only 2.9% of the wage gap." I therefore ask you the following question: what makes you think that France, Germany and the Netherlands are not going to take exactly the same measures as here in Belgium to be even more competitive? What will we do in a year's time, when the report shows that wage competition is pushing us down again? It is exactly in this spiral that your policy is leading us. Another example that Mr De Wever, mayor of Belgium, often puts forward is the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, everything would be better. In the Netherlands, all measures would make the economy run better. What happens in the Netherlands? They have simply destroyed wages there, they have privatized various public services and they have played with the pensions of the people on the stock market. What happens now? A real recession, with -3.8 % of domestic product for this year. Why do you want to apply the same solutions here as in the Netherlands? We're heading straight for the abyss. Third anecdote: Geoffrey, whom I met in Charleroi. He was hot, so I'm going to reframe his speech. He works in Caterpillar. I quote: "Mr. Prime Minister, we are tired of your gifts to all these multinationals. We've been giving gifts to all these companies for years, supposedly to create jobs. Yet, they continue to fire. Don't you see we're going straight into the wall?" You will surely have read it in the press this morning, the PTB released a new study published by the Sudpresse group. My colleague, Mr Marco Van Hees, here is the author with our study department. They analysed the top 1000 (the 1,000 largest profits) of companies in Belgium. We have already revealed that in the name of tax competition, in the name of job creation, the tax rate for these 1 000 largest companies in Belgium is 6.7%. Go find any SME – you have to say, because you claim to defend them – it will pay more than 6.7% taxes. You often invoke that it is to create jobs. So we analyzed the use of the profits of these companies. Of the 48 billion profits made by this top 1000, 50.2%, 24 billion euros are paid in dividends and do not return to the real economy. All the gifts you give to all these companies will end up in the coming months simply on shareholders' bank accounts, and not at all invested in the real economy to create jobs. I shall end with the question of pensions, which I obviously care about. I'm a little sorry the Minister of Pensions isn't here. One more anecdote. Two weeks ago, I was at Aviapartner's picket in Zaventem. Johnny from Vilvoorde, 36 years old, told me that he dragged 4 to 5 tons of luggage daily, often in very difficult circumstances. Whoever loads a plane must be on his knees on the plane. Mr Prime Minister, I hope I do not have to explain to you how difficult that is in the physical sphere. What do you want to do? Make us work any longer. I see older fellow Members working on their feet every day. Why do you not make room for young people in our companies, Prime Minister? Well, Johnny, I told you, I passed on the message. I think Johnny's right. It is illogical that today, in a country such as Belgium, where 600 000 people are unemployed, we are asking the elderly to work longer. Mr Bacquelaine replies to this every time there is less unemployment in countries where there is longer work. That's totally wrong. We have analysed what has happened in Sweden with the study office of the Labour Party. In Sweden, the measure was introduced in 2000 to bring the end of the career in proportion to age. In Sweden, therefore, longer careers were introduced in 2000. Between 2000 and 2014, youth unemployment rose from 10% to 24%. The Swedish model thus shows one thing, in particular that making older people work longer creates more youth unemployment. If Mr Bacquelaine says that unemployment is lower there than in other countries, he is right. However, we should not make a link between longer-term measures and youth unemployment. He asked why youth unemployment was on average lower in the Scandinavian countries. That's not at all because there's more work there. The only reason why there is less youth unemployment in Sweden and Denmark is that Sweden has introduced, among other things, a reduction in working hours. That's why there's more jobs. Why is there less unemployment in Denmark? Because in Denmark more than 50% of the domestic product goes to public services. That is what this is about, which is why there is much less unemployment in the Scandinavian countries. Prime Minister, I will end with the ultimate argument that you put forward, the ultimate argument that comes straight from the England of the 1980s: there is no alternative, "there is no alternative". The elders tell us that at that time Mrs Thatcher was beating our ears with her "there is no alternative" and we now have the Belgian version. Yes, there are alternatives to the current policy. Subject to the opening of the debate. The question now is where to find the money. However, Marco Van Hees and I were pleased that the budget contained two small measures to raise capital – a great effort, Mr.Jamar, for these two small measures – the banking tax and the Cayman tax. Unfortunately, these two small measures were put in the fridge. What a disappointment! I call for a substantive debate on taxation. I feel that the opinions are very different, but there is a plurality of opinions on the subject, which we welcome. Six years ago, when we launched our campaign on the "millionaire tax" with the PTB, we were alone with social organizations and some other left-wing parties. This campaign was a form of popular education campaign across Belgium and we are now pleased that, for the first time, this debate on wealth tax is being held in parliament. It's important. I am very happy to hear how they are very open to that at CD&V. Tine Van Rompuy was and is still very close to our millionaire stake campaign. It would of course be a great joy, Eric, if you could join us in our campaign for the introduction of the millionaire tax in Belgium. The question of who will pay for the crisis is very important. I hear Mr De Croo say that there can be no capital tax without touching the middle class. Mr De Croo, the Labour Party has a solution for you! Our proposal on the millionaire stake does not affect the middle class at all. We really want to hit the übertop with the millionaire stake, the 2 percent richest families. The 88 000 families with more than EUR 1.5 million need to receive the money. The money should not be taken from the middle class, who has worked for her money. Let us go and get the money from anyone who is above 2 million, with whom interest is lower today, with the fortunes that sleep and which you will not activate to pump the resources into the economy. With our millionaire stake, you can count on 6 to 7 billion. That'll make sure you don't have to go and get that money from the workers and servants in this country. I will conclude my speech by going back to the historic moment we are experiencing today. I can testify to you, Prime Minister, that there is something on the ground that is very new to me, that is to say, an awareness and confidence of a social class in its own strength so that it can push back a government. I've been campaigning for 15 years, I've never felt that way before. The oldest had not felt it since the seventies. There is now a social class that is realizing that if it does not fight for its achievements, the government's vision will be not only to withdraw them from them, but also to deprive them of this right of social resistance. I heard Bart De Wever, and just now Mr Ducarme and Mr Dewael say that there should be nothing between the government and the people; that, because we voted once, there is no right for civil society to intervene in the democratic process. That's what this is about. That is the background to today's debate. A society like the N-VA that wants, where only the government decides on everything and civil society is totally pushed aside. Well, we don't want society like that. We do not want such a society: a society where social relations are broken. I tell you, when the class of workers begins to regain consciousness and confidence in it, it is able to lift mountains. In 1886, when the debate on child labour arose in parliamentary fora, Parliament as a whole and certainly all ministers were in favour of child labour. Their arguments were that they worked so well in the factories. "Political realism" was needed. Without child labour, Belgian textile companies would go bankrupt for the benefit of their English rivals. You had to be competitive! That was already the argument put forward. The little children were going to make us competitive. In 1886, the workers' movement replied: "Your realism is not ours. We're going to push you back with our own realism." And the workers have pushed back the government. When the question of paid leave was raised in 1936, the then right - wing government replied: "This is not realistic. If we pay you a week to do nothing, how are we going to be competitive?" Yet the workers' movement took over and decided not to let it happen. He finally got the paid leave. When, in 1945-46, the question of setting up social security was raised, it was exactly the same debate: it was said that this money was not going to be industrially productive, since it would only be used to provide care for people and to finance unemployment insurance. Yet the workers' movement believed in its own realism. Ministers, do not count on the two weeks of vacation for people to fall asleep! It's not going to happen like that. During this period, they will reflect on how to continue the movement. I feel it deeply, a social class is regaining confidence and consciousness in it. And I can tell you: we will continue the fight and we will keep you back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u208	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the various personalities representing the Belgian population who sit in this House and who have spoken, whether they are the opposition or the majority. It is important that this Assembly be the space for exchanging arguments, sharing convictions and explaining the path that this government is proposing to follow in the coming months, in the coming years. I would like to start with a few points on which everyone agrees, or on which everyone should agree. What's the diagnosis for our country? What are the challenges facing us in recent months? Firstly, Belgium unfortunately has a high level of debt, 107 percent of gross revenue. That is a very high level of debt and that is a fragile point for our country. It means that every year we give EUR 12 billion to the banks to pay our debt. EUR 12 billion is an important amount. This is the addition of all the departments of authority of the Federal State. If I bring together the Ministries of the Interior, of National Defence, of Development Cooperation, of Justice, we are about 15 billion euros. That's the order of magnitude, that's what it's all about. This is a first point I want to highlight. There are 37,000 euros of debt per Belgian citizen. I don't think anyone can contradict that. No one can contest it, no one can rejoice! We must be determined to work to see how we prevent debt from continuing to grow; on the contrary, we must see how we can gradually reduce this debt, which is a heavy handicap, which is a serious difficulty for our country and for our future. Secondly, Belgium, like many other European countries, has an important task in relation to the ageing of the population. People live longer, and that's good news. But it also means that pensions are becoming increasingly expensive for the State and weighing more heavily on the budget. Health care will also be an important part of the budget. I am convinced that everyone here, both the opposition and the majority, wants to find a solution to finance our social cohesion and social security sustainably. What are the opportunities available to us? I have heard some say that there is no alternative and others say that there are many. Personally, I think there are several alternatives. There is a first choice to say, for example, that it is not a big deal, that we can continue to let go of the deficit, so to increase the debt, so that tomorrow it is not EUR 12 billion but much more than we will spend every year to repay the banks. These amounts for the repayment of banks are not available for purchasing power, health care, pensions, justice, security or all essential functions. That is true, we have made the choice of responsibility with two priorities for ourselves. Firstly, we want to respect our commitments to reform. The deficit must be under control, which is crucial for our future. That is not obvious, it is not easy. I have to accept that. There are departments where structural reform is needed, and that is not easy. Let me give you an example. I heard what was said about the Justice Department. It has been said that there are many problems in that department. That's correct. That is not new, however. There is a significant backlog and payments to honour. I want to highlight the fact that the government, a few days ago, decided to release 61 million euros out of the 2014 appropriations to start clearing the backlog of invoices for the Department of Justice. That has not been said. We know that in 2015, we will have to keep an eye on this department to ensure that Justice has the means to function properly and that invoices can be honoured. Of course, this will be a difficult point of attention, but we have the will to find the necessary solutions for this and other departments. I therefore contest the reasoning that there would be blind, linear savings, without taking into account the specificity of the various issues we are facing. I would like to put a second point to the House in relation to the reorganisation. We have opted for a reform by reducing expenditure. That is a clear political choice. One could have done it differently. I respect the fact that for some people a different slope was possible, namely a general increase in taxes. That's one way to clean up. Maybe that's your piste, your choice, but it's not our choice. At the same time as fiscal consolidation is being carried out, there is also another responsibility. And it's not a simple job. It is to ensure that decisions can be made that are good for economic development and recovery, which protect as much as possible the purchasing power of citizens, especially those with low and medium incomes. These decisions are made through a number of commitments that are historic for the competitiveness of enterprises. The competitiveness of companies is to ensure that we can give our businesses, small, medium and large, the ability to conquer new markets, new customers. I have heard the challenges, the reasoning about the percentage of our GDP that depends on exports. There's a certainty. There's no doubt about that. Our country, in the heart of Europe, is an open economy. We are directly linked to the situation in our neighbouring countries. No one can dispute that. People know that. Today, our companies have an important wage handicap. That's not new. No one can dispute that and no one has disputed it. We are taking concrete steps in this area. There are two things. An index jump, one has talked a lot about this, is a first choice, a first point. I understand that not everyone agrees with that reasoning. I accept that. That's democracy. I respect your opinion. However, it is the choice of this government. An index jump is a lower increase in a wage, it is not a reduction in a wage. Furthermore, as has been said, we maintain the character and principle of wage indexation. But it is true, in 2015 exceptionally, there is the decision not to increase wages as strongly as it would have been with the index jump. And this with one exception: these are the orders of magnitude I gave earlier. There are compensatory measures that are decided. Tax and social corrections will be made. Tax corrections for the people who work and social corrections for the people who do not work. Quite specifically, I confirm once again that the compensation is complete for those who earn less than EUR 2 000 net per month. That's correct. The other people are asked for a small, reasonable effort and it is used to create jobs. It is not the government's study service that says so, but it is the Planning Office, the National Bank and all the international institutions. They say that our structural reforms are good reforms to increase prosperity in our country. No one can dispute that. We believe that these structural reforms for the creation of additional jobs are the key to social cohesion. No doubt, the difference between us, that is, between this majority and those who fight it, all of us who say, but with separate words, that we want more economic development and more jobs to finance solidarity, is that we join the floor to act. We make decisions, we take action, measures that are not simple, not easy. It is true that not doing anything is not exposing oneself. We take responsibility. I have a few comments to make on two important points for our future: health care and pensions. Everyone knows that we have one of the best healthcare systems in our country. We want to protect and guarantee that. This is crucial for us and it is also a question of taking responsibility for the future. What decisions have we made? I have heard many comments in the last few days and weeks. However, we continue to apply the same growth standard as in recent years. In recent years, the real growth standard in health care has been around 1.5%. There is no reduction in the health budget. On the contrary, next year more than half a billion euros will be allocated to health care. We are aware that we must take into account the resources available in our country to ensure solidarity. However, the situation and needs of the people must also be taken into account. In the last few days and weeks, a lot of incorrect information has been disseminated. As far as pensions are concerned, many of you have spoken on this important issue. This is a social debate. It is solidarity between generations. I'm proud. We live in a country which, in the beginning of the last century, organised a pension system in 1925. In 1925 there was a statutory retirement age of 65 years, as today. But the age of life expectancy at that time was 58 years. Today, the retirement age is still 65 years while life expectancy is 81 years. We didn't highlight it. He is a Minister of Pensions for whom I have a special esteem, Michel Daerden, who was one of the first to say the truth with courage. Without structural reforms in the area of pensions, it will not be possible to finance the pension system in the long run. He is a Dutch-speaking socialist minister who has been actively involved in the best pension reports of recent years in Belgium and who demonstrates that, without reform, the ability to pay pensions for current pensioners and for all those who have work and who hope to have a solid pension tomorrow and the day after. So what choice have we made for pensions? We have made a very reasonable and very rational choice. On the one hand, people generally need to have a longer career. Unfortunately, we are also the champions of short-term careers. That is true, and I regret that. So that's the first piste. As Mr Verherstraeten has just said, we have continued in this respect in the logic of the previous government. I take as an example the early retirements. Efforts have been made under the previous government, which I fully welcome. They were necessary. We have continued and increased efforts to have longer careers on average. But that is not enough. At the same time, from 2030 onwards, it is necessary to increase the legal age of retirement, not to trap people, not to say, before the fateful date, that we must upset everything. It is one of the very important points to have the courage to implement pension reform. The pension reform has two objectives. Firstly, we want the current pensioners to have a guarantee that they will retain their pension amount. This is a first commitment that concerns the government. Without reforms, there is a risk in this respect. There is a clear risk without reform. Secondly, we are also thinking of the people who work today and who hope for a good and strong level of retirement when they are retired. In this area too, it is a question of responsibility, which we take on board. Finally, I would like to mention another point that has been discussed: taxation - the tax shift issues and the way in which the various functions of the State are financed. First and foremost, the decision of a tax shift has been made. These new tax measures for 2015 provide €2.8 billion in new revenue. The revenues from the index jump are also fully used for relance, for competitiveness and for strengthening social corrections. That is a first important step, it is the basic reasoning of this government. We are very clear on that. All new revenues are used for competitiveness, for relance, for job creation, for the real economy, for people's purchasing power. That's a clear choice. That brings me to my second point. Some have said, quite rightly, in the government agreement there exists the will, with the whole Council of Ministers and the Minister of Finance in the first place, to work on even more substantial tax reforms, with an absolute obsession: to protect as much as possible the people who work and the ability to create jobs. I heard slogans, "We have to tax capital." Others: "We must not tax capital at all." What we want to do is very simple: within the government, in calm and serenity, identify the best possible fiscal measures to support job creation, business creation. There is no question for us of taking measures that would make sense from an ideological point of view, in one sense or another, and that would make no sense in terms of economic development and job creation. Support investment and ensure that there are resources for the real economy in our country, this is the point of agreement of four political formations that employment is the key. And that is what we want to implement! Ladies and gentlemen, one final important point is social dialogue. The social dialogue in our country is based on a strong tradition. Since the first day of the negotiations to form this Swedish coalition, together with the four political parties, the decision has been taken to give an important space for social dialogue. As an informant, my first initiative was a meeting with the social partners. Later, as a formatter with Kris Peeters, our first initiative was once again an invitation to the social partners. So there is no doubt about that. I merely note that this is a choice which I must respect and which, at the same time as the declaration of government in the Chamber, the trade unions have immediately decided to take action. It is also correct that in a period of action it is not evident to create a serene and quiet space for good dialogue and consultation. That's right. The final actions are now behind us, with the 15 December strike. I call again for a serene dialogue with the social partners. I repeat once again that the whole government has committed itself to providing the conditions for good dialogue and good social dialogue. At the same time, of course, we know that, in order to be able to consult properly, everyone must have the will to hold that consultation. We have made it clear that there is a substantial space for social consultation. I want to highlight three points where it seems to us that social consultation must be possible. This is the social envelope, such as the welfare envelope, to know how to upgrade benefits for those who need them most. This is a first area for which we hope that social dialogue can take place. A second, perhaps most important, point is the employment strategy. We take decisions for competitiveness, reductions in burdens (€960 million), index jumps, measures to reduce burdens on the first three jobs created in SMEs. We hope that all the social partners will commit themselves to ensuring that these means are mobilised for the real economy, for innovation, for employment, for training, to ensure that this fosters the prosperity of this country. We hope that the social partners will take responsibility with us to ensure that these commitments are fulfilled. A third point is pensions. There is a proposal to set up a national pension committee, an area in which the social partners have a very important role to play in determining concrete measures with us. So there is no doubt that there is a huge opportunity and room for positive social dialogue. I hope that everyone will be able to assume responsibilities together with the government in the short term. That is my hope, and that is also a call I would like to re-launch here. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I simply conclude by telling you once again that my conviction, as some have said in this House, is that our country is probably facing one of the important moments in its history. It is felt that delicate, difficult decisions must be made at the risk of jeopardizing the social model that we care about, the model of solidarity and cohesion that we care about. These decisions, there are two ways to consider them. Either we choose a form of immobilism, a form of resignation or we adopt an attitude which consists of sowing fear and anguish and also transvestite the truth in relation to the reality of the measures that are advocated. Either, we take another approach, that of courage, responsibility, truth and also hope. It's choosing hope! I do not want to be the prime minister of a majority who has no fundamental ambition to allow young people in this country to live in a society where talents, desires, desires and dreams can be realized. I do not want a country where the government decides in place of the citizens what is good for them. I want a country where the best is possible for everyone. In an economic desert, it's not possible! In a social desert, it is not possible! That is the sense of commitment we are making. Thank you for the support of the majority! [[Applause fed on the benches of the majority]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, there is time for a reply for those who want it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u210	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have spoken, most of the time, in front of the empty benches of the N-VA; that means everything! However, with great words and gestures, you told us that everyone had to be responsible. "Do you have in mind," you said, "the extent of the debt? Can we leave this society with such a debt?" But what do you think, Prime Minister? That we've been waiting for you to find out? What has been done in recent years, except to work, year after year, to reduce the rate of public debt, which has increased especially since the banking crisis. Indeed, before – and you know it – we had melted this public debt. And what did the European Commission say in our Finance Committee, Mr Van Rompuy? [[That, precisely, this public debt would probably not be 105.1 per cent, as the government claimed, but 107.3 per cent.]] And the choice you make, for example, of index jump will also have a negative consequence and will increase this debt-to-GDP ratio. So making big statements and seeing that the debt is increasing and that the measures chosen are going to weigh even more on the debt, is still a small problem! You want to create jobs. I said it last time, I repeat: who is the Prime Minister who, in your place, did not say that jobs should be created? It's obvious, for people first, to have an income. And how do we, in particular, want to finance social security if there are not enough jobs? But don't make it look like there's no alternative to what you're proposing! The index jump: you make us believe that, in the end, there will be no problem. We take the money on one side, we return it on the other, and it gives a zero operation. But then why didn't you choose another method? Why did you not mobilise the 2.5 billion for a further reduction in social security contributions which would not have weighed on the debt ratio and which would not have had as a consequence what we are currently seeing, namely that with the index jump you are attacking the workers, but also the social beneficiaries who are going to be victims of a cumulation of measures. It's the index jump, it's the reduction of the welfare envelope, it's the reduction of tax reductions by non-indexing. Pensioners, for example, about whom there is always a desire to increase the pension – rightly, in Belgium, pensions are too low – are among the targets, the victims of your policy. You talked about pensions and life expectancy. You are obviously right, but you are not explaining why, rather than raising the pension age to 66 and then 67, almost linearly, you have eliminated this whole policy. Ah, it's a complex policy, that's right! But the employment bonus, the end-of-career time credits, the wage increases for those who continue longer, through reductions in personal social contributions, all constitute a policy that does not sanction, but that supports in the perspective of increasing the real age of retirement. You haven't been much of a talk about public services, because, indeed, what you are proposing is linear measures; I say it and I repeat it. What are linear measurements? It is that all departments are affected in the same way, that we do not make any difference between each other. And so much so if there are services that can no longer be rendered to the population. Tax. You talked about courage. "It takes courage." I agree with you, we don't do politics if we don't have courage, you're right. But where is your courage when, on the one hand, you hit one and, on the other, you preserve the other? We quoted you earlier, Omega Pharma, and we did the right thing. Preserving in the situation we know shareholders, dividends, capital, I call it a lack of courage and it is murderous! I've quoted a whole series of people, cases. This person who works part-time, for example, to escape unemployment and who earns 1,000 euros, you will take it – you have not disputed it, it is the reality of the figures – almost 150 euros gross per month. Can you imagine what this means, for a person who barely earns 1 000 euros, what this can mean and the impact in terms of a job trap? You have said nothing, it seems to me, that is likely to give hope back. You are in favour of social consultation, and so am I. That's good to say. Immediately after, the first of your examples is the wellness envelope. What did you do? In the framework of the competitiveness pact, we had agreed on a deal with the social partners: we had reduced the amount of the costs in order to help businesses; at the request of the trade unions, we had decided to increase the welfare envelope (100 %), including the share reserved for family allowances, as set out in the special financing law. In addition, in order not to be confronted with difficult debates with the social partners, we are pre-allocating 81% of the amount. What have your proposals generated? The share for companies is increased and you remove what the unions have got. You say you can then propose this dossier on the social dialogue table. I don't think it's serious. As far as pensions are concerned, it depends on what happens next. You think you're open, so good. Will we really be able to review policies already explained here, policies already proposed in the programme law? Or is it simply a question of how to apply it to the margin? It will depend on your courage to recognize that you have proposed bad measures and that you remain open to social dialogue. The same applies to the employment strategy. If we give you arguments, one of which is the latest report on the competitiveness of the Central Economic Council, still in the process of realization, if we wish something other than the index jump to help companies, yes or no, can you answer present? These are the fundamental questions that people on the ground are asking themselves, the fundamental questions that the social partners are asking themselves, and the citizens of this country through them. Prime Minister, if you have courage, show that you can propose an alternative, a real alternative for the benefit of our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u211	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer, but you will not be surprised that I am really disappointed and not just because of its content. I am particularly disappointed because, even though you have been here almost all day, you have not answered any of our critical comments and questions. You say that, of course, choices must be made and you underline that you are making them. That's true. We differ: our choices are different from your choices. It's bad you don't defend your choices. We say that there are alternatives to your choices; we say that you will have problems with the choices you make, choices you do not defend at all. You say that you have chosen your approach, because it is and you do not explain it. Let me give you some examples. The burden on labour has to go down. We must improve our competitiveness, which the government is talking about, and reduce the burden on labour. Prime Minister, I asked you in my speech where, in the 2015 budget, apart from the index jump, you were reducing the burden on labour? Nowhere, Prime Minister, there is only the index jump and it does not start until July. In other words, there is almost no reduction in labour costs in the 2015 budget. To be honest, I was hoping you'd defend your approach. You remain in favour of the index jump, because it would create 60 000, 100 000 or I know how many jobs. You forget to mention that a large part of the calculation is based on the competitiveness measures taken by the previous government. The results are included. Prime Minister, why do you do that through the index jump? I have also asked several ministers, but none of them have given me an answer. You say that wages are not too high and that you do not lower wages. Prime Minister, you are reducing wages! After all, you are affecting purchasing power. If prices are rising and wages are not rising, purchasing power is falling. So you are affecting wages, which is negative, also for our economy. All calculations, including the calculations of the National Bank, show that more jobs will be created if you reduce the burden on labour rather than linearly, but very focused. You will create more jobs if you do not allow the job creation to be paid by an index jump, but rather by very targeted revenue through added value taxes, income from capital gains. I ask you why you are still holding on to that index jump. You do not answer that, Prime Minister. You say your government chooses the index jump because it chooses the index jump. Prime Minister, you say that you are carrying out a tax shift of more than 2 billion in 2015. You should read your budget carefully. Each asset charge measure was postponed in 2015, except for one measure of 80 million. Your government also claims that there is a second measure, namely the saving of pensions. Well, for us, anyone who saves a pension is not part of the wealthy group. So there is no tax shift to the assets in 2015. I would therefore have hoped that you would give at least a number of arguments for this. Finally, I understand from your speech that social dialogue is very close to your heart, and that is very close to our heart. The social dialogue is the basis on which our country has grown, but the government is throwing the social dialogue in the trash. This is not only due to statements by your ministers as protesters or opponents of the government would not think about the future or their children. Some of your ministers have repeatedly described them as antisocial and stupid. This is not conducive to social dialogue, Prime Minister. I don't really have to explain that to you. When social dialogue has to start, when nothing can be changed about the framework, you will know in advance that it will fail. You are angry now because the people have responded, but you have not given the social consultation at first any chance. Nor do you call your ministers to order every time they interrupt social dialogue on a very difficult point. Mr Prime Minister, if you really want to be, as you say, a prime minister who gives a future to our young people in Belgium, then make sure that social dialogue can really be conducted. No slogans, but actions we expect from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u212	Prime Minister, "The Prime Minister's exercise of explanation and communication is perplexed. More questions than answers." It could be tomorrow's main article, but it is today's main article by Mrs Delvaux in Le Soir. Colleagues, this could have been a good reply from a Prime Minister of a united government, following another debate in which the government and the majority had shown that they are hanging together and know what they are going to do, in addition to a shared evaluation of the opposition's work. It could have been a good reply, but we have had a period of chaos and disagreements. We have had a debate in which the majority parties only found each other when it was about the criticism of the opposition and the analysis of the past. Mr Van Rompuy has just said that I must be careful not to become a caricature of a group leader. Well, you should be careful not to become a caricature of a prime minister. I'm an incredible fan of your optimism, but your optimism is becoming more and more naive. I come to a number of specific points. Firstly, I note that you are not answering our question about the index jump. You've got new numbers on your hands, but you don't want to release them. However, it is one of the most criticised measures. Secondly, as far as the tax shift is concerned, you yourself have said that there is division in this House. You said you heard slogans. According to one slogan, the rich tax or capital contribution will be collected. With other slogans it is called not to do so. Make the exercise and you will find that everyone in the opposition is in favour of it. Everyone in the opposition has said that there must be a capital contribution. Indeed, there are also people in your majority who are completely on the other side. Mr Dewael was the most important spokesperson today. He said, "We won't do that." That's the big problem. You are proposing a budget with a stock exchange tax of EUR 80 million and EUR 1.4 billion in savings in social security. Today we have once again seen that there is no consensus on the tax shift, on what will really determine everything, namely economic revival, social peace and political stability. Thirdly, you are trying to get the picture that this is a government of the outstretched hand. The opposite is true. You're part of a government of the middle finger and the fist. You have a President of the Chamber, who should in principle be the facilitator of the dialogue and the social debate, who is a strike breaker. You have a Deputy Prime Minister who behaves like a Flemish national vice-praeses of a student association. You have internal problems all the time. There are people here, Mr Verherstraeten, who have said today that the complaints of the trade unions have been copy-paste in recent years. In no way do you show willingness to engage in dialogue. There is a lot to say that one wants to talk, but one has to show this. We do not talk about responsibility; we have to show it every day. That's your government's big problem. Finally, I come to intergenerational solidarity. You constantly say that you do not want to pass on debts to future generations. So you try to wrap your heart-moist story, your unbalanced choices in a sympathetic way. Your government and your majority are passing an ecological and social debt on to future generations. How can you claim to stand for intergenerational solidarity with young people who are being cut off? How can you claim to stand for intergenerational solidarity with young people and children who make you ill by continuing to subsidise your mobility choices and by commercial vehicles of EUR 4 billion? How can you claim to stand for the future if tomorrow you will decide to extend the lifespan of old nuclear power plants from 1975 by ten years? The indignation over the passing on of this social and ecological debt explains our attitude. We have done our exercise and put an alternative on the table. Of course we wish you happy holidays and lots of warmth, but also lots of inspiration. There is a lot of inspiration to be found in this country. There are a lot of alternative signals that are bubbling from the bottom up. Please don't be blind and deaf to that. It is a prime minister's role to receive such signals. Only then can you be a captain of the Belgian boat and you have not shown that for the last 67 days, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u213	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is not enough to repeat to the envious that you show courage to be able to be credited with it. Or more precisely, yes maybe! I'll tell you what. You didn't announce in your program the index jump. You had not announced in your program the extension of working time and extension to 67 years. No, you don't have that courage! We had it. I mentioned it in my program. You did not announce in your program the new tax measures that you impose on citizens, because you are taking a new tax. You didn't announce your alliance with the N-VA. On the contrary, you categorically refused it. Your courage is not to face. Your only courage so far is to turn around. Secondly, simply saying that others are called immobilization because they do not adhere to your proposals, while you call for the dignity of the debate, let me think that your sophistry is not honorable in view of the quality debate that has taken place today and which has allowed us to hear proposals on various benches. [[Indeed, simply saying, because you do not hear in your majority, an agreement to know what tax reform you are allowed to go, because you do not hear in your majority an agreement to know how you can really open the debate on social consultation, because you do not hear in your majority an agreement to know how to end linear economies that will severely penalize certain public services, to the point that, tomorrow, justice will no longer be able to assume essential tasks, that security will no longer be assumed in a proven way, under certain circumstances, because you do not have the agreement of your majority, saying that those who come with proposals are, by definition, those who are in favour of exploiting fears, are those who surf populism, those who refuse to take responsibility, it is in reality your lack of responsibilities within the majority that leads to the anxiety in the country and the social tension that we are experiencing at the moment.]] That is the real cause. Because what everyone perceives is that in your majority, there is finally a party that advocates for immobilism because there is a party that has a hidden agenda. When public services are dismantled that carry out tasks of authority, it is in order to prepare for tomorrow the observation that Belgium can no longer assume certain powers, that the federal State can no longer assume certain responsibilities. When we see that Justice is in difficulty, we will explain the need to prepare a reform with transfer of justice skills. When we see that security is no longer assumed as it should be, we will be told that a further step is needed for the transfer of powers to the Regions and Communities. In fact, you have in your majority a party that prohibits you from evolution. The strength of immobilism is there, in the one who is never in this chamber!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u214	Prime Minister, thank you. In your speech, I heard the same speech you made yesterday and this morning on television and radio. I did not have the impression at all that a debate or dialogue had taken place here in Parliament. I share a number of the observations that you have referred to. These findings are known. On the other hand, where I am not following you, the question is not whether or not to reform. That is not what the debate is about, but it is in this way that you are presenting it! It is clear that it is necessary to make reforms, whether to clean up the debt, to increase the employment rate, including that of the 55-65 year-olds, whether it is still to increase the competitiveness of enterprises. It is clear that, I hope, there is a large majority in this House, but also, beyond Parliament, in the population with which I believe there is a consensus. The question, therefore, is not this one, but how to make these reforms as effective and equitable as possible in terms of the efforts required of the population. Before I turn to the subjects that you mentioned, I would still like, if I may, to correct something. You point to the fact that in 2015 you released 8 billion euros for the reduction of employer social contributions. This is obviously not right, since for EUR 5.9 billion, it is clearly a recycling of existing measures. Let us turn now to the various elements you have given. As you do not believe in any case the arguments brought by the opposition, which, whether interesting or not, are in any case incorrect – this is the speech that I have been hearing for two months now – I will bring counter-arguments that are not mine, nor those of the opposition, but those of people for whom I think you have respect. Regarding index jump, I'm going to have to repeat what I said earlier because you weren't there, Prime Minister. I will not contradict this index jump here: it is not the voice of the opposition that speaks. Some individual bosses, the Union des Classes Moyennes, economists, Bruno Colmant, who was quoted, say that this index jump, as planned, especially affecting the middle classes without correction, will not be positive either in terms of employment. It's not an argument from the opposition, it's an argument from people you respect. I do not use my arguments when I talk about the legal age of the pension at 67 and, in particular, at the same time, the abolition of all incentives, whether qualitative or pension bonus, which increase the employment rate from 55 to 65. Professor Hindriks says that this will lead to parallel exits from the labour market, 40-60%, not to mention disabilities, work disabilities. This, Prime Minister, is not an opposition counter-argument. About the tax shift, I heard for the first time today a turn here in the gallery. Like what, perhaps the opposition's alternative proposals may also have an interest. I heard you here, for the first time, really talk about the will of this government – at last I would dare say, and so much better, though – to make a tax shift. I will allow myself to hang a pen on the hat of the CD&V, which has pleaded in this regard for several weeks. I only hope that it will not be a "reform" and that it will aim at both business competitiveness, corporate tax, tax-exemptness, investment deductions and tax shift, so that it is a truly ambitious tax reform. In this way, there will be more fairness, but also more efficiency in the actions that will be taken. Finally, I will conclude with social consultation. I said earlier, and you heard it, how urgent I thought it was to re-engage in dialogue and get out of confrontation. This government, you wanted it or not – I don't know. In any case, some of its supporters also wanted to enter into confrontation with the social partners, in particular the trade unions. Today is the time to restore serenity and move this country forward. So, Prime Minister, we are going to meet you here in a month to find out what really is the will you have and what will have to be translated into action.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u215	Colleagues, there are no more replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u216	I would like to point out that I have received an amendment from the government to the draft law amending for the second time the general expenditure budget for the financial year 2014. I propose that the amendment be sent to the Finance Committee, which may meet tomorrow. The hour and the Chamber will be communicated later. The committee can then discuss that one government amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u217	Mr President, this is an obligation that took place a few hours ago. This is the latest European amending budget for 2014! I take a few seconds to explain the urgency and importance of this rather special procedure. Indeed, for many years, this had not been achieved, i.e. a conflict within the Council and between Parliament and the European Council in determining the amending budget. I personally attended these meetings for two or three days. The procedure is such that the Commission must make an alternative proposal. In the end, the European Parliament voted a few hours ago - but we have just received a communication - to increase this amending budget by some EUR 24 million. This is "must" for us, as is the case with other Member States. We could not have gone any faster; I therefore appeal to the wisdom of each other to obtain the right to meet briefly in committee to vote the adjuster as it should, so as not to stain the European environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u218	Mr President, if I understand you correctly, you propose that the committee be convened tomorrow between noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u219	There is no time yet, but I suggest that we do not do so at the time of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u220	After the oral questions, then?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u221	Before the oral questions, with the agreement of the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u222	That's then between noon, while most of them may have organized to be here at 2:00 p.m. So that seems a little difficult to me. The committee may also be convened after the oral questions. All the members of the Committee on Finance and the Budget will have spoken today or this night, so I think it would be better to call the committee together after the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u223	I have no objection to this happening immediately after the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u224	Mr President, we are dealing here with an amendment on EUR 20 million in relation to the European Union. As Mrs Temmerman says, most of the members of the Finance and Budget Committee will be here after the oral questions and I think it would be better if the committee were called together. I don't think there'll be much discussion. In this way the amendment can be voted on and it can still be put into the budget. I do not know if there are many oral questions and it is therefore difficult to determine an hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u225	Mr President, given the nature of the amendment as just explained by the Minister for Budgets, we will in no way oppose it being debated calmly and integrated into the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-12-17-54-plenair-ip022x.u226	We will then take up Mrs Temmerman's proposal to convene the Finance and Budget Committee immediately after the oral questions. At that time, we will be working on the debate on a number of powers which will not be discussed tonight. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Then it is decided. Ladies and gentlemen, for technical reasons, we must now suspend the sitting. We will do so for 20 minutes and we will resume work at 8.40 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, December 17, 2014 at 8.40 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 17 December 2014 at 8.40 p.m.
