ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u2	The discussion of the Government's statement is resumed. The discussion of the government statement is resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u3	Mr President, at the risk of repeating myself and possibly being unpleasant, I would like to say that the Minister for the Budget told us – I have read his remarks during the interruption – that he would make the tables available to Parliament. I suppose he's talking here about the lower House, the federal Parliament. It is now 8:54 p.m. and these tables have not yet been communicated to us. On the other hand, they travel outside. Will you accept, Mr President, that the government is making such a mockery of your parliament when a commitment has been made this morning? We need to know what's in these tables. It deals with the removal of the Go Pass, which amounts to EUR 1.9 million. As far as bpost is concerned, there is an increase in costs of up to €6.5 million in 2015. I continue reading since the information is there but that we do not want to give it to us. I'll continue the list. For the IBSR, 1.5 million euros are mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u4	Mr Nollet, we have listened to the Minister for the Budget. He said what's going on and why he can't deliver the numbers. It's a work in progress. At the same time, I am well placed to say that we are not wondering why it is a little earlier in the newspaper. That's none of our business. We shall do so with the explanation given to us by the Minister for the Budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u5	Mr President, I will be brief. I wanted to ask the Prime Minister, if he doesn't mind, to provide us with the same paintings he sent to the RTBF on television.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u6	What's that accusation? [[(Vive reaction from the Prime Minister and]] on the benches) Mr President, a few moments ago, a member of Parliament insulted the MR group leader by calling him a collaborator. Now, an opposition group leader injuries me with the feeling that I would not tell the truth in Parliament. The press did not receive information from either the Prime Minister or the government on the budget tables. And the insidious words, once again, are unworthy words.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u7	Prime Minister, these are not insults. It is simply a question of asking if we can get a minimum of respect from the government for this assembly and have a copy of the budget tables that fell off the truck and arrived at the RTBF. But like the truck, it is the government, I imagine we can still ask here to have the same budget tables as those available to television. I'm not asking for anything more, and it doesn't seem much to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u8	Mr President, I can understand that there is some fatigue, some tension, including in the Prime Minister, after those days. But each opposition request should not be transformed into an individual incident creating unnecessary controversy. I have remained very calm in the previous debate. But here, Prime Minister, let us admit that seeing these figures circulate outside and preventing us from holding the real debate when it is precisely on this that things must be carried on, it poses a problem of operation, without any insult to you! Without wishing to insult Parliament and the parliamentary function, these figures are circulating. You know they have to arrive. Why can't they get to us? Has your Budget Minister, present this morning, obviously fallen from his chair? Prime Minister, calm the game, don't wait three hours. Calm down the game now and spread this painting! You must intervene a posteriori every time, anticipate!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u9	Mr President, I do not understand this repeated request. The information was provided. Earlier, Mr. Nollet asked to slow down. Now he repeats himself. The objective is clear: to continue discussing the government statement. Mr President, I ask you as much as possible to move quickly in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u10	Mr President, very briefly, I would like to reassure Mr Michel. I am convinced that it is not the government that organizes the leaks on the Franken case and on all the e-mails, all the articles on Mr Franken's Facebook pages. Mr Michel, I believe you on your word! On the other hand, when you read on La Libre Belgique's website: "The Swedish budget in a few figures", where do you want it to come from? You do not hand it over to representatives of opposition parties. It can only come from the majority, as I know! The opposition has the right to have it. This is the democratic right!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our debate. Mrs. Onkelinx, we're not gonna do the whole shit again!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u12	Mr. Chairman, a Belga communiqué is now falling. I read in this statement: "The Belgian government tabled its draft budget with the European Commission on Wednesday night," said Finance Minister Johan Van Overtveldt. In other words, since this draft budget was tabled, according to Belga, at 6:45 p.m., perhaps we could have it without having to go through the journalists. Mr. President, that was a new development. As President and in the light of this information, you have the ability to ask that your parliamentarians be made aware.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u13	The government is free not to answer. I therefore propose that we resume the debate. [[Tumult]] Mr Gilkinet, you are mistaken if you think I am going to pick up the documents myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to be brief, given the time that has come. I will also try not to stir up the moods. I'd still like to ask a few questions. We have had a rather intense debate. This makes sense to me, too. Democracy is often described as a "organised disagreement'. This is also the purpose of this debate. However, there is one condition for a good debate, namely that the facts and opinions are presented in a fair manner. At that time, we can discuss what everyone thinks. By the way, Multatuli already said in his famous work Max Havelaar: "Would you like to put words in the ranks, well, but don't say what isn't true." I have to admit, I've been thinking about that quote a lot lately. When I read the coalition agreement and after hearing the many statements made by the government negotiators, I got the impression that words were put into the ranks, but that we have rarely heard the truth. For example, we heard the President of the Open Vld say: "Who works gets a little support in the back." In the same spirit, she added: "We will strengthen the purchasing power of families." Or it was repeated in choir: "The government will make people work more and longer." About the tax shift, the chorus often heard sounded that the assets would be drawn to 500 million euros. These are all interesting statements in themselves which are worth debating, but despite all the statements we do not find these big words in the coalition agreement. I would like to debate these statements, but I have to say that they are not in the coalition agreement. I will try to clarify this. First of all, the government chooses to make people work longer. In itself, this is an objective which also proposes the sp.a. I started looking for the measures and the solutions that the government wants to achieve so that more people over 55 years of age have work and can stay at work. I was surprised. This objective is hardly being taken into account throughout the coalition agreement. On page 17 of my version the great sentence is: "The government increases the participation of older people." How we will do that and by what means, there are no 20 words in the entire coalition agreement. I counted them, not 20 words. I have always read very concrete sentences about reducing the income of people over 50 who no longer have a job, about reducing the income of people who still have a job and who are entitled to a pension bonus, but they are abolished, about those who lose and the abandoned runways. On negative measures for people over fifty-five: I stopped there when I was at 500 concrete words. However, there is nothing about how we will help these people to work now. It reads a bit like a school that sets as a great goal that all students must swim, but at the same time the pool does not declare accessible to minors and makes parents pay for more swimming lessons. That's what you do. You do not provide for how people can stay at work, but you take away their income and at the same time you affect their income as pensioners. You ask older workers and the unemployed to turn in, but you do not provide for effective opportunities for people in the labour market. Then the objective remains an empty shell that is only negative: the reduction of rights, but not helping to get to work. We are hearing the second mantra again today, the Prime Minister and others have repeated it: 'We will increase the purchasing power of families'. It just isn't. We are of course in favour of this ambition, but I am not in favour of it in the coalition agreement, quite the contrary. More excise duties, more VAT, though. An index of 2 %, though. Reduction of benefits, though. This would now be compensated by an increase of EUR 250 per year in the flat-rate professional costs. Vice Prime Minister Peeters has said that there is also a social correction for the index and a number of other measures, so that we get more than EUR 2 billion in compensation. CD&V has said: EUR 2.6 billion index jump and EUR 2.6 billion returned, it is in balance. That bill doesn't add up. If you take all the positive measures, you have to count the negative as well. The EUR 2.6 billion of the index jump applies to wages in the private sector. You must add at least EUR 1 billion for public sector wages and at least EUR 800 million for payments. The index jump does not bring up EUR 2.7 billion but EUR 4.5 billion. This means reducing purchasing power by EUR 1.8 billion, not even taking into account the fact that many things are becoming more expensive. So your index jump does affect people's purchasing power. Let us also look at it in detail. You say that we will pay EUR 250 less taxes through the flat-rate costs. Anyone who has a wage of more than EUR 1 000 per month loses because of the combination of the index jump and this improvement. Anyone who earns more than 1 000 euros loses. Does this mean that from now on someone who earns EUR 1 100 a month has a high wage and that we should no longer provide for purchasing power protection? It is not the case that raising the flat-rate deduction is an aid. The index jump is a knife in the back of the working Fleming that he will carry with him throughout the legislature. Pensioners, however, are even less affected. Where the people who work still receive a flat-rate deduction as compensation even though not enough, as I have just explained, is not the case for a retired person. Pensioners would normally receive an increase of 2% in March or April. This is a compensation for the fact that life has become more expensive in the meantime. What does the index jump mean for these people? Let us take someone with a pension of EUR 1 250, not a low pension, but not a high pension. With €1,250 a month net, the index jump for a retired person means that he lost a month's pension at the end of this legislative term, at the 2019 elections. This is the result of the index jump for pensions. We have already said it before the elections and today you are proving it effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u15	Mr President, Mr Vande Lanotte, I am glad that you are concerned about pensioners. I have a very specific question for you. What did the Silver Fund, which you told the people, bring in concrete results?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Demir, it is of course a well-known trick to start something else when one cannot answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u17	No, you told people that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u18	Mrs Demir, I will give you a comprehensive reply on the Silver Fund. In any case, the Silver Fund wasn't...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u19	You've made people believe that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u20	Mrs. Demir, I haven't fooled people.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u21	The pensions would be paid by the Silver Fund. I want to know what's in that Silver Fund of yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u22	Mrs Demir, I will answer you without a problem. However, you will not be able to avoid, after my reply, no matter what I explain on the matter, that I will continue to stress that a retired person who receives a net EUR 1 200 and has worked his whole life for that purpose has lost a full month's pension against the 2019 elections because of your measure. That's just a fact you can't ignore. I will now answer your question about the Silver Fund. The Silver Fund was an instrument that we had created to be built up if we were to be effectively below the debt threshold of 60%. It was planned to reach that limit in 2011 or 2012. That's always been the goal. The banking crisis has prevented us from reaching that limit. With regard to debt write-down, you can see what we have done over the past 20 years. When I first became Minister, we had a debt of 120 %. When I quit, we had a debt of 84 %, to be exact. That's the difference. If you have ever completed 40 % of public debt, you may come and explain. Until further notice, however, you have not done anything about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u23	Mr President, Mr Vande Lanotte, first of all, you pointed out earlier that people need to work longer. You note that this government does not take any other measure, but it does stipulate that people have to work longer. However, you seem to forget to read a lot further in the coalition agreement. This government is the first government to talk specifically about a new career model. We want to introduce a new career model in which employees will have a better balance between work and private life. Secondly, how are we going to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u24	You also want to abolish the runways.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u25	How do we intend to implement this? There will be a career account, of which the previous government was full of mouths. However, there will be a career account in which employees can use the time and salary they have saved at regular intervals. Thirdly, we will facilitate telework and organise it better. Fourthly, there will be an increase in the justified time appropriations. As far as the Silver Fund is concerned, Mr Vande Lanotte, people on the streets know what's in it: zero.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u26	Mr Vande Lanotte, it is very nice that you give us some more information on the policy you pursued at the time. A few economists have already been quoted tonight. I would also like to quote a few more. They agree on one thing: that period is called the lost decade. It was a decade of high economic growth, economic boom and historically low interest rates. During that period pension funds were acquired and buildings were sold and then rented again. However, there was only one budget in balance throughout that time. Then you are surprised that the debt did not fall below 60%. Shame on you, Mr Vande Lanotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u27	Mr Dedecker, I am very moved by your concern about the past. I wish my colleague Kris Peeters much strength, of course, but I have heard how the government wants to help people over 55 to work: by organising more telework. That's gonna be a great solution. You have no answer and there is no answer in the coalition agreement either. Have you ever talked to a 55-year-old? Then you'll know that a 55-year-old must first get his date of birth from his application. Then maybe he'll get an answer. If he puts his date of birth in it, he'll never get an answer. That is the reality of today and there are no solutions to that in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u28	Mr Vande Lanotte, it is of course a challenge to keep older workers in work and to give older unemployed people a job. It is a challenge for which the necessary efforts have been made for years. The coalition agreement states that we will develop a job plan. In this light, we will look with the Regions at how this will be handled. After the sixth state reform, target groups policy becomes a competence of the Regions. You talk about the elderly, young people and people with disabilities. That is therefore a competence of the Regions. It is therefore not explicitly mentioned in the coalition agreement, but it is also an important challenge for the federal government to provide jobs for older jobseekers and to keep older workers in employment. Much has already been said about the social partners. However, there is a second element that needs to be developed more after the sixth state reform. Together with the Walloon, Brussels and Flemish governments, we must come up with a complementary job plan in terms of their new powers after the sixth state reform, in particular target groups. I can assure you that, like the previous federal government, we will make efforts to give extra care to the elderly, because, as you rightly say, that is an important challenge. As far as purchasing power is concerned, Mr Vande Lanotte, this too is a concern not only for the inactive but also for the active. You referred, among other things, to pensioners. I will not speak again about the welfare envelope. I would like to remind you that the index jump is a way of closing the pay gap by the end of this legislature, along with the efforts you approved in the previous government. That index jump is a very delicate element, which has been underlined all day by the opposition. For us and for you, this is an element that needs to be addressed. You're right. The great challenge will be to make it clear to people that this index jump, which requires an effort from those who will not get an index increase, results in jobs. That is a huge challenge, but one that we want to face. You will be able to ask us about this in the coming years, about the state of play and the way in which it is being handled. I would like to stress that purchasing power is also a concern for us, especially the purchasing power of the weak, of those who have low benefits or low pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u29	I am convinced of your concern about this. If your government says it wants to do an index jump, that's its right. We do not want it, you do want it, that is your right. You say you want to create jobs with that. Okay. I've listened very carefully. It has been said here that this index jump, for EUR 2.6 billion, is fully offset by other measures, and that is simply not right. Your account ignores the fact that the index jump applies not only to the private sector but also to the other sectors, including pensioners. Your social compensation of EUR 2.6 billion is against EUR 4.5 billion that is spent less. You're making a choice. I understand that, but you'll have to explain it to the people. You say you want to reduce the purchasing power of the people who are now working to create more jobs. You're honest with me about that. I disagree with that choice. But do not say that you are also guaranteeing purchasing power today, because you are not! I know it's hard to talk about figures, but I want to ask a question, which is quite crucial in the debate, because it's about the direction we're going. We do not have any concrete figures today, but we have read the measures proposed. According to our figures, EUR 750 million will be saved in the pensions and invalidity sectors, regardless of the fact that companies will have to take over a part of EUR 300 million. You should not do that tonight, but I would like you to be able to formally tell us tomorrow whether that is true or not. I repeat the question, because it has never been said. We keep hearing that everything will be guaranteed. Our position is that all measures taken by the government on pensions and invalidity together save EUR 750 million. People have at least the right to know whether that is right or not. I didn't count the index jump in this. It's gonna be all right. Finally, I will not use any more time than is necessary. There is a whole debate on the tax shift and the use of capital for 500 million euros. A fact that we often hear about is the increase in the stock market tax. It would amount to about EUR 80 million a year, which we naturally agree with. We hear about a cayman tax. You know that we have re-baptized it into a salamander tax because of the lack of teeth of what is being made there. We shall see what that results in, but it does not seem to do much bite. What bothers me and what I think you are sending the wrong signal is the following. We are talking about assets and the large contribution, EUR 300 million out of the EUR 500 million, comes from pension savings. In doing so, you ask the families who are saving for their pension, to receive their own money saved, to pay five times 1% of the tax before they receive their benefit. While they are still saving pensions, they already have to pay 1%. That's 300 million euros a year. Those are the abilities that appeal to you. Families saving EUR 1 000 per year now pay 1% per year. Later they'll pay less, but later, that's easy to say. The large capital input comes from the ordinary Belgian families who, at the direction of the government, make pension savings. I decide. Making policy is making choices. You made it. In our view, you have not spared the purchasing power of families. We do not think that is economically sensible. You have spared the great wealth and appealed to the pension savers. We don't think that's right. You have provided an index jump, including for pensioners. As a result, pensioners will have lost the equivalent of a pension month by May 2019. If you want to make those choices, which we do not agree with, do not say that purchasing power is being increased, do not say that assets are being called upon, do not say that older workers have opportunities, because it is not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u30	Mr. President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, there are many challenges facing our country; you are well placed to know that. They are first and foremost social. The number of jobseekers is extremely large in our country. The number of people living below the poverty line is enormous: 1.650 million. We are a few days away from October 17th. When I talk about social challenges, I can also talk about societal challenges and living together. We have had very bad examples here in the last few days... The challenges facing us are also of an economic nature, of course: to redeploy our economy to sustainable sectors. But they're also environmental. Belgium has just been ranked fifth largest polluter in the world. It is only twenty-fourth out of twenty-eight in the European Union in terms of totally clean energy production. If everyone lived as we do in Belgium, it would take four planets. We only have one. I read this morning in Metro that 2014 was the "warmst period in 134 jaren" – the warmest period in 134 years. I will quickly share with you some of my readings. Prime Minister, the hollow of your government agreement, in terms of all these environmental issues, brings us back to a pre-Al Gore period. We're worried about that. In December, in Paris, representatives of all the countries of the world will meet to try to follow up on the Kyoto Protocol. Belgium is usually regarded as one of the leading countries in this field, that is, those that shoot others up. In the 230 pages of your government statement – I'm not talking about the CD&V version, but about the two-column version, of which I assume the content is identical – I can't find a word, not a single one, on this important global event. In what you propose for Belgium, you run away from your governmental responsibilities. You remove the Kyoto Fund, you remove the climate administration, you reject any quantified energy efficiency targets, you focus on only greenhouse gases. However, behind energy efficiency, it is the reduction of citizens' bills and it is the creation of jobs in the construction sector, a sector that needs it. Today, we have learned, in little detail, that you are sabering in SNCB's spending. The minister is not present, but the Prime Minister and the Minister of Budget are here, and I will therefore turn to them for confirmation: is it true or false that you want to reduce the SNCB mobility envelope by more than 2 billion euros? I'm saying two billion euros. This represents about 15% of the company's multi-annual resources. Is it true or is it not true? One looks at his gsm, the other looks at his papers. Who will answer me? Obviously, this figure cannot be denied. This means that today, the 770,000 daily commuters, those who take the train and who already have to suffer from delays, lack of places, the closure of small stations which forces to use the car more to reach the next station, all of them will find themselves tomorrow and in the coming years with more lines removed, more problems of punctuality, more delay in investments, more abandonments. Those 770,000 people who take the train every day, you've decided to abandon them. It is a choice of society, it is a choice of mobility; we do not share it. On the contrary – and the Supreme Council of Finance has opened a relevant, practical and interesting path – we believe that in the area of taxation, especially on company cars, it is possible to reorganise things. Belgium is considered by the OECD to be the country that offers the most tax gifts in this area. On the other hand, you are going to punctuate the SNCB budget of EUR 2 billion. Still on this environmental aspect that we care about because it is an inherent part, we think, of what Belgium must be able to offer its citizens: not a word about product standards; not a word about pesticides, biocides, chemicals, carcinogens and others – everything that has a concrete impact on the health of citizens! And then you will complain because social security budgets require more resources, and you will remove them! Today our citizens know, and I am particularly sensitive to it, that asthma strikes very strongly in our home. One in seven children is born asthma today, especially because of the pollution that surrounds us. And that is not what you are talking about, when it is a fundamental issue! The word "nature" in the 230 pages does not appear once. Do you find that normal? Do you find this balanced? The environment, for you, is it completely outdated, completely secondary? For us, at least, it's not. This is part of the very heart of the political project of what we must be able to propose to the Belgians, whether they are from the north, the south or the centre of the country. Obviously, and as you have heard, the environmental requirement is severe. But even the U.S. Army does better than you do! Today, the International New York Times read: "Pentagon details plan to counter warming". Where is the Belgian government on this issue? Nowhere. No targets, no dedicated resources. Even the American army today has a plan to fight itself, to contribute to this struggle. You're nowhere in the matter. That doesn't mean everything is to be thrown away. I believe that you, the Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the majority and the opposition too, have been able to realize our attitude in all of these debates, particularly in the debates that oppose one bloc to another. According to our vision of our role as parliamentarians, we are the ones who must connect and relay. Relay the disappointments, the discontents of the people who bring us proposals outside but who, once in parliament, are locked in logics that they cannot share, logics of austerity as you propose them. Relaying, but also linking communities, age groups, people who sometimes have a fundamentally different conception at the starting point of a society, but who base in us what Belgium will be tomorrow's. We believe that we also have a role to play as an opposition in this area. I dare to hope – and I also look to you, Mr. President – that you will respect it sufficiently. In this agreement, there are measures that are interesting and that need to be highlighted. Here I am thinking in particular of the dimension of administrative simplification. If I understand correctly, it is also a question of making electronic invoices for public authorities mandatory, automatic in 2016. It is also about the allocation – as you said – to 100% of the well-being envelope, which we believe is a step forward. There is also an extension of the additional ban on fees for day hospitalisation; others have already mentioned this. To this is added the one-stop shop for litigants. I have not drawn up a list of these measures. You know her. Having said that, we also have fundamental criticisms to address. Indeed, you choose austerity and, in doing so, you will increase social inequalities, you will widen the gap in a country which, in terms of net income, is already the most unequal at European level. Eurostat statistics show this. You also want to oppose people: young people against the elderly, workers against job seekers, workers against employers, Belgians against foreigners, Flemish against Francophones. We want to go beyond these divisions and it is possible to do so. You're looking for numbers, quantity. We're looking for quality. This quality dimension must be present in your various projects. I would like to speak now on an issue that has already been discussed earlier, namely social consultation. The latter is, in my view, fundamental in a country like ours, in particular to connect and cross certain borders. After careful analysis of your text, we consider that on at least six dimensions, you are cadenasizing our model of social consultation. There is no question here of the idea that, at some point, our policies must decide, Mr Dewael. I think you're right about that. But politics must decide after having given its full chance to social consultation. But you do the opposite. You say, "This is what we'll do if you don't agree." You reverse what, in Belgium, is the real social concertation. You already give your results in terms of index jump. You already give your results in terms of wage freezes. That being said, you are right to say that you are continuing the work of the Di Rupo government. You already give your flexibility requirements. You are already saying what you will do in the context of the amendment to the Renault law, all this before the first consultation meeting could take place with the social partners. In doing so – and I have heard the model developed – you are moving from a bipartite model (employers-workers) to a tripartite model. This is a fundamental change. By indicating the directions you take, you create inequality in the discussions, you do both against one, while at this stage, things are very clearly more balanced in the very model that social Belgium has created since the end of the Second World War. You are all responsible for this, including the CD&V, which apparently also pays attention to these things. You disturb the very heart of the mechanisms by installing padlocks. Worse, you install these six locks and you throw the key! You throw the key by saying that, in the 1996 law, you will enter automatic corrections and that if the social partners do not agree, the law will apply. There will therefore be no room for consultation, no more room for discussion. Basically, that is what we criticize, beyond each of the measures that are also problematic for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u31	Mr President, Mr Nollet, I am listening very carefully, but with regard to the model, the model of the social partners on the one hand and the tripartite model on the other, I think you are mistaken. Firstly, the model with the social partners, the Group of Ten, can go through perfectly. When the social partners conclude agreements at interprofessional or sectoral level, this can be perfect. However, experience has shown that a tripartite dialogue, i.e. the government with the social partners, can produce results more quickly. If you think that this model would seriously hypothesize the social dialogue, then I can only tell you that this model has existed in Flanders for many years. If I am well informed and about Flanders I do know a bit of something then the tripartite consultation in Wallonia will now be given a certain structure. There, too, the added value of the tripartite consultation has been found. That information may encourage you to make more cautious statements as soon as you reach the speaker's seat.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u32	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, may there be tripartite discussions, of course, but on the dimensions I have mentioned, which are specific competences of the bipartite and the social partners, the very fact that the government says what it will do, even if there is an agreement, it is a problem, it fundamentally disturbs the social model. We do not agree on that. We are not going to debate the matter for two hours. But I will be able to return regularly throughout the legislature to show you, point by point, where you are making changes to the very heart of the mechanism, not on the assumption that there are tripartite consultations from time to time, but on what has belonged to the social partners since the end of the Second World War. You take into your hands elements that are not within your jurisdiction and you throw the key by saying that "in any case, the 1996 law will be reformed to do so". One more word about the social dimensions, because they hold us to heart, about everything that, in the government agreement, enhances flexibility. We have noted many points: overtime, floating hours, night work, productivity premium, temporary contracts, reintroduction of trial periods, reduction of the notice period, compulsory work, casual work, mini-jobs, relaxation of the Renault law, etc. Even for incapacity, even those who are considered incapable today will be controlled; you will force them to find part-time work. This is a conception of flexibility that is univocal. In our conception, flexibility must be available in certain situations, but first and foremost, to reconcile family life with work and not to say that it will reduce the cost or increase competitiveness. It is first and foremost from the citizens that I invite you to think of flexibility and not first and foremost from economic tools and production. As you propose, with all the measures presented, this is a constrained flexibility. Our choice is a chosen and built flexibility. I am still pursuing this aspect by establishing the link with taxation and, in this respect, the absence of this great tax reform that you mentioned during the election campaign. The government agreement does not mention any tax shift, but we are still waiting for the tables. There is no such transfer, however necessary and supported in particular by the Conseil Supérieur des Finances, of a reduction of the burden on labour by compensation, an increase on the income of capital, in particular by working on capital gains, in particular by revising the system of notional interests. Nothing! Nada! Schnoll in this matter! I'm not going to develop all the safe choices here, others will. The misappropriation of the budgets of Development Cooperation, colleagues will talk about it; the privatization of the tasks of the police, etc. You see how much we can criticise this system that expands the social safety net that we want, on the contrary, to tighten. One more word about the incidents we've been going through in the last 48 hours. Without wanting to throw oil on the fire – this is not our role – I will simply recall the words of both, especially those that you or your party were able to make clear – I thought they were clear – a few days before the elections. Mr Reynders is no longer here – he is probably in transit between several meetings, we can understand it – but I have kept some traces of his interventions. You will easily recognize both the photo and the title. It's an old newspaper; I like to keep things when I think they're important. It is the newspaper of April 29, 2014, a few days before the elections. Do you remember, Prime Minister? I quote Mr Reynders: "The MR does not want to govern with the N-VA." That was before! Certainly a mistake from the press! Fortunately, we had the translation a few pages further, even more precise, the same Reynders saying: "Majorities without the N-VA in Brussels and the Federal."
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u33	In Brussels, we did. We didn't have the MR. We were able to avoid the N-VA!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u34	Where are we today?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u35	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u36	Prime Minister, don't be distracted! Let's stay between us! What a scam! We're not going to say it outside, but between us, we can tell each other. What a scam! You want to deradicalize society. Well, start with the government! Let us be clear, when the wolf is in the sheepfold, it is not surprising that the sheep are eaten! Let's get to the numbers. I've got two minutes left. We all heard Mr. Jamar this morning. And if there was a memory problem, the report is published. I'll just read it to you. Mr President, there is a lot of talk about figures. I'm asking for a little patience, two or three hours. Two or three hours. It's 22 o'clock, not two or three hours! After in the French text, it goes further and says unambiguously: "We should have had the figures since the day before yesterday when this is the day our government was formed but you will receive them this afternoon". That's not two or three in the morning, it's this afternoon. We still don't have them. I conclude, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u37	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u38	Give them then! Mr. President, we can't give the figures anymore, we don't have time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u39	Excuse me, but I was quoted personally. I wonder how I could have this document filtered by not having anyone in my office yet. Mr. Nollet had about a hundred collaborators at the time. I don't have anyone in my office. I'm going, I'm coming, I'm doing what I can. But I can say that, unlike other entities, everything is sent to Europe, thank you, as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u40	So it's sent to Europe, it's sent out, everyone talks about it, but for us here, there's no respect for the commitment that has been made. The minister has the documents, but let him give them, Mr. President! Let's reverse the roles. Usually, the government is at the service and disposal of Parliament. Let us make ourselves available to Parliament. He has the document, he has no collaborators, we're going to go make photocopies for him, we can understand that; let's put ourselves at his disposal. Mr. President, he has the document, ask for help from a bailiff.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u41	The appointments are the appointments. Your time is up. I can only give the floor...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u42	I knew you by my side, and we used to smile at each other to talk to each other – which is always more friendly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u43	I keep smiling.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u44	Secondly, I do not show you the tablets, but the document which was to reach Europe today. This is a draft, which must be accompanied by the other documents of the federated entities, by the 22nd, in accordance with an agreement concluded this afternoon with Europe and the federated entities. This draft takes 44 pages. I got the last version of it five minutes ago. I want everything we want...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u45	So we're gonna suspend?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u46	You suspend anything you want, but I'm not suspending, I'm continuing!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u47	I dedicate you, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u48	Excuse me, Mr. Frédéric, but I heard a few words earlier that were not always high... Anyway, I don't want to argue unnecessarily. Let's make it very clear. Why does this, Mr. President, matter? Because today is October 15. That was the date that was assigned to us by Europe. So, let's do a show for the media, send news via Twitter.... It's all in the tablets and I don't know where it came from. Finally, I don't know what I'm talking about. What was of interest to me as the new Budget Minister, who has been in office for three days, is that this will be a draft for Europe, with an agreement in a week's time. All right?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u49	Mr President, I shall conclude in one sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u50	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for the Budget if I have understood his words correctly. Minister, you say you sent a draft to Europe. Is that right? That is also good; we are satisfied with that draft. Since you believe that a draft is sufficient for Europe, you must also consider that it is sufficient for this Parliament. Mr President, may I ask you to accept your responsibility in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u51	I don't get my turn till I'm 10 years old. So please continue to be patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u52	There's a limit to everything. I now give the floor to Mr Nollet for one sentence. For one sentence. Otherwise I'm gonna have to shut down the microphones, I'm afraid. Mr Nollet, would you like to say one more sentence?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u53	Mr President, I see that several people want to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u54	I'm sorry, but there's a limit. Mr Wathelet, Mr Nollet must first end his speech, and that must be done now. Mr Nollet, I am afraid your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u55	Mr. President, don't ask me to cut Mr. Wathelet!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u56	I'm asking you to close up! Shut down the microphone!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u57	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u58	It is done, Mr Nollet. It will not be included in the report. The microphone was switched off. It's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u59	(...) (The President cut Mr. Nollet's microphone)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u60	Mr President, earlier you had a wise word: 'I'm not the one who's going to pick up the document where it is'. May I ask you to send a bailiff to Mr. Jamar to take the document where it is? It would be so simple.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u61	Mr Maingain, I will not respond to your request.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u62	Mr President, I understand that it has been a very hectic start for the new Minister. Prime Minister, your minister has somewhat lost the north. You can easily solve the existing problem here. The table is right here. I'd like to personally take it to the copier myself. However, there is only one person who can bring Mr Jamar to his senses again. That's you in your capacity as Prime Minister. Just give him the signal. That boy doesn't know he's allowed to give the table. If you tell him, he'll do it. Then we get the table, then we get the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u63	Mr Calvo, you have already made your point.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u64	Mr. Chairman, excuse me, but when I see how you handle this afternoon's sitting... I'm very sorry, Mr. President. Yesterday you start giving the floor to a political group and then not giving it to others. Already, first personal interpretation of the Rules. Today, I am the only and first to whom you don't give the floor, we don't know why, we don't know why – is it because it's me? I don't know, I guess not, at least I hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u65	No, Mr. Wathelet!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u66	Then you give the floor first to Mr Maingain and Mr Calvo. And finally, Mr President, we are here in the context of a discussion on a declaration by a new government. The opposition calls for figures that are very detailed and very good according to the government. We've been asking for them since 10:00 a.m., and we've been promised them since 2:00 p.m. You, as president of this assembly, do not take your responsibility to ensure that a proper debate, majority/opposition, is respected here! It is up to you to ask for these documents to come to us! We are still the representatives of this nation! We still have the right to have a democratic debate! Everyone has these documents! I'm reading things at RTBF. I'm told that's not true; I'm told that's true. I don't know. I'm told a draft is being sent to Europe. I don't know if it's true or not. But if these figures do not scare you, if they are so transparent, so good; if it is this break and this new momentum of Belgium, but give them to us! We can applaud you! If you'd done that, we wouldn't have lost eight hours. We wouldn't be here talking, squealing about one number or another. Give them to us, it will allow us to go faster. Working like this will not make the debate in Parliament interesting, positive and above all constructive! Just give us these elements!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u67	It is exactly as you say, Mr Wathelet. So far the debate has been interesting and I hope to keep it that way. Mr Ducarme has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u68	Mr President, I find the debate difficult to move forward. Beyond your presidency, I call for a minimum of self-discipline in the head of the speakers. As far as the figures are concerned, as we have said, we are in the framework of the government statement, which we have to discuss, but apparently some are slipping into an increasingly surprising fetishism as the hours pass. I do not know whether Belgium deserves better, but Parliament certainly deserves better!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u69	Mr. President, Mr. Jamar and the budget are like Labiche's play. In Labiche's room, everyone sees the cuckold husband. Everyone here sees the budget, except Mr. Jamar! If we could still have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u70	Mr President, I am addressing you and also the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Maingain!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u72	Minister, maybe you can listen once. Mr President, Prime Minister, I have been a Member of Parliament for 23 years. I have been both in opposition and in the majority, and I have sometimes fought verbally. It sounds really funny, but I really don't think it's gonna work anymore tonight. If the government says it doesn't want to give figures because they still have to be worked out, I can accept that. In this case, no figures are available yet. Now, however, we are being laughed at. Two banks in front of me are the competent minister who does have the figures, but does not make them available. Minister, I do not know if you are aware of this, but that is humiliating. This is not how you treat Parliament. It may be that you didn't have any figures to give because they aren't final yet. You claim, however, that you sent the figures to Europe. That is not true, because it is not customary to send a draft to Europe, but perhaps a document that can be improved. However, here you show the document, but you do not give it to Parliament. I'm asking you not to do that anymore, and I'm not asking you to do that as an opponent. Your attitude is humiliating to those Members who debate here all day. (Sustained applause from the opposition)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u73	Mr President, once again, I will repeat the commitments I made yesterday and already repeated earlier in order to avoid any kind of confusion between the various documents we are talking about. I know Johan Vande Lanotte's experience in government and budgetary matters. On the one hand, we have certain obligations at European level which must also take into account information which is not exclusively federal but which falls under Entity II. I think that everyone is well aware that the exchange of information is necessary. Mrs Onkelinx, it is not enough simply, as you considered earlier, to send a document from entity II to entity I. Even today, throughout the day, contacts have taken place between budgetary administrations, between entity I and entity II. There is nothing more common in relation to our European obligations. So we are talking about inter-jurisdictional contacts, which are not validated by a government. We remain in the context of the preparation of the documents necessary to put us in order towards Europe. This is a first aspect. A second aspect was raised yesterday and again earlier: the budget tables which are in parallel with the government declaration, for which we also wanted to carry out the necessary verifications from a technical point of view, throughout the day, thanks to the experts. I have told you and I repeat: as soon as these documents are available and ready – they seem to be in the process of being ready – we will communicate them to Parliament. This is the last thing I want to say about this. I would just like to point out that the government's choice for full transparency is a first. This has never happened in the last quarter of the century. This is only possible because this coalition agreement is very precise and does not merely contain general reservations. After all, we make clear choices. You will have the documents this evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u74	I believe that we can end the debate on the figures and continue the debate on the government statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u75	Mr President, we have a great time here. I also want to maintain the serene climate that has characterised the debates all day long. I would like to announce that I will be much more concise. I can reassure you, I will be very brief. After all, there are a number of fellow Members who have an unlikely talent to repeat what has been said very often. They would actually start talking about white faith in order to prolong their speech. I will also talk about something other than what has been discussed so far. The opposition tried to use the start of this government to start a series of riots in the direction of my group. This must be called very meaningful. One did not go for the content because the basket of contents appeared empty. Let me confine myself, dear friends, to this one sentence. As far as the commitment to democratic values is concerned, my group of the PS has absolutely no lessons to receive! Not the content of the wanted riots is interesting, but the atmosphere that speaks out. They prove that this is a country of two political opinions, of two democracies. On one side of the language border, we found great excitement in this hemisphere today, translated into hysterical crying by Mrs Onkelinx, Mrs Fonck and their followers. On our side of the language line, that part of the debate could only stir up the extreme left and those who have a hidden political agenda. For the vast majority in Flanders, it only gave rise to surprised shoulder pulling. For the record, I fully understand the sensitivities of anyone. I'm just establishing the fact. Mr President, I believe that Mr Calvo wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u76	Actually, I wasn't planning on doing that. We have just had that debate in detail. I do not agree with you when you say that this does not affect anyone in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u77	Yes, the extreme left and those who have a hidden political agenda, they have been miserable. That's what I said. You're one of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u78	Mr De Roover, I believe that a lot of people have been hurt. It has affected a lot of people, and I was glad that the Prime Minister made certain points with some delay. That debate has taken place, and you will once again be on the floor to say that this is a divided country, with two democracies. Have you not listened to the discourse of, for example, my colleague, Mr Nollet, who says that people should be connected in this House and that bridges should be built instead of constantly climbing on the chair to turn people against each other? You do. Colleagues of the opposition, too. Stay away from the chair when it is to turn people against each other, please, Mr De Roover!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u79	Mr Calvo, I can tell you that you are not the one to tell me what I can or cannot say in this chair! I answer to people other than Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u80	You say there are two different societal visions in the North and the South of the country. For the record, I don't share your vision of society at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u81	I don't share yours either. That's the spirit.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u82	I wonder how you want to be the conciliator here. For example, we read that your celebrated Secretary of State on Economic Migration says that there is an added value of the Jewish, Chinese and Indian diaspora, sorry, I think it is the Indian diaspora, but that will be misselected again, but that there is less to the Moroccan, Congolese and Algerian. That's turning people against each other. You don't connect, you divide. If that Secretary of State is to represent our country, if that's your vision of society, then I'm glad I don't share your vision of society!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u83	Mr Geerts, I am very sorry, but despite your commendable efforts, the election results have shown that you cannot unite all of Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u84	And you do?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u85	I didn't say that. I didn't say we put everyone in a unit. Mr Calvo said that in Parliament only people who seem to unite people according to his rules and views should speak. We unite people, but on the basis of other principles.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u86	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u87	So you say. I'm not confirming that. I would therefore like to express my thanks here, on the basis of the debate as it has taken place today, for the friends of the PS and the CDH. They have demonstrated that our country is a country with two democracies, for which I am grateful. If you allow me to continue, perhaps you will have an answer to your undoubtedly honest concerns. I will answer a question that many people in Flanders have already asked themselves, and perhaps also in the French-speaking part of the country. We have a solution to the problem that has also been demonstrated here today. That solution is called confederalism. After the elections, we found that we were not able to find enough allies to work on this. In view of our commitment to parliamentary democracy, you note that, honourable members of the opposition, we take note of that. The coalition that has been created forms an alliance. We are not going to merge all the participating parties. Mr. Bonte, an alliance is what it is. It is not a band for eternity, but it is an appointment for the present reign. We will also be loyal to them: a deal is a deal. There will therefore be no structural reforms in this legislature. A strong emphasis is placed on the fact that the electorate's wish for 2019 will result in what the electorate wants. It would be very strong if people who call themselves people's representatives would take initiatives in 2019 to ensure that the same people could not take a stand. Now I come to the essence. So there were no allies to introduce the confederal rules. Well, we didn't sulk, as the opponents had hoped. If you do not follow us in the Community rules, Mrs Onkelinx, we will play the game according to your Belgian rules in order to influence the policy. I'll bring those rules to your attention. Half of 150 is 75, 75 plus 1 is 76. In this hemisphere, 76 seats are sufficient to form a government, wherever those seats come from, Mrs Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u88	I understand that you're new and that you have some things to defend, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u89	New and fresh.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u90	I'm not fresh at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u91	No, I was talking about me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u92	You're fresh? Yes. But perhaps some consequence...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u93	I'll press for consequence later.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u94	Maybe you could start with yourself. That's always a very good rule, which I learned from my grandfather who was in the resistance. One must always start with oneself. First question. Someone from your party, not the least, the Prime Minister of Flanders, has this afternoon in the Flemish Parliament...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u95	You're repeating yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u96	You too. You just said you had nothing to do with that. So I repeat: "The federal government agreement does include a declaration for the revision of the Constitution in the course of the legislative term'. That came from Geert Bourgeois. Mind if I finish? Thank you. Secondly, you are now saying that 150 divided by two is 75. Well, your party has spent the last four years here screaming murder and fire every time, because on the Flemish side there were one or two seats too short. Speaking of which... Now it's not a problem anymore. If it suits you, it's fine, if it doesn't suit you, it's not good. Ah, we're getting the tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u97	I think it's great that you're asking that question, Mrs. Temmerman. I will not answer the first question, because you have asked it 195 times, if I can count correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u98	It was the second time. You can't even count. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u99	I would very much like to answer your second question, Mrs Temmerman. We did indeed mention in the previous legislature that the government had no majority on the Flemish side, because we are following a federal logic.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u100	And now you're not?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u101	Today we are also following a federal logic, Mrs Temmerman, but we have not had the chance to turn that logic into rules of the game. You would have liked us to retreat into the corner, sulking, so that you could once again form a fake majority. So what did we say? If you think that federal rules should be applied here in the house, then we will play the game according to the rules you impose on us and then, and only then, 76 is indeed sufficient. You have obliged us, by not joining in our confessional story, to follow the Belgian rules in the house until then. Inconsequence has nothing to do with that, unless you are unable to follow that reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u102	Excuse me, but this is about the Constitution. You say we've made you do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u103	You could have declared the Constitution open to revision.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u104	You should respect them in the first place.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u105	So do we. That's exactly what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u106	I have another question. If Mr. De Roover has done... we have now received a table. I suggest, Mr President, that we suspend for a moment so that we...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u107	I suggest that you do not interrupt me and allow me to speak, then we will come to your esteemed table.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u108	Would you listen to me, please? I said, after your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u109	Then perhaps you could ask me after my speech?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u110	In the meantime, I know the President, and I may not get the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u111	However, I have the impression that you have been given the floor occasionally today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u112	Mr President, since we have been given the table, I would ask you whether we can have a suspension after the speech in order to be able to read the tables better.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u113	Mr Delperee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u114	Mr De Roover, you say, "Half of a hundred and fifty is seventy-five. As soon as I have seventy-five MPs, I have a federal government." Yes, but you reason as if we were still in a unitary state. You live 40 years back. You're a neo-unitarian. You do not respect the federal state rule that French- and Dutch-speaking ministers have a majority in their language groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u115	Excuse me, Mr Delpérée, you are a constitutional specialist, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u116	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u117	And you claim somewhere in our federal law that the government should have a majority in both language groups? Is that how you teach your students?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u118	Have you not read Article 99 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u119	Seventy-six seats is enough, right?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u120	Not at all! There are two rules. The first is a democratic rule: there must be a majority in the House of Representatives. The second rule is a federalist rule. I am a federalist; I have been accused of being a belligerent, but I am not. I was a federalist before many in this country! I have defended federalism and I am still defending the federal organisation of the state. But this federal state organization obviously wants a government to be balanced in its composition. And I would add that it must also be in the distribution of its competences! We're not here at all. We're in an unbalanced government, a runaway government. I said and wrote that this is the original sin of the Michel government. And this original sin, it will not be erased soon!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u121	Mr Delpérée, you seem to know my text, because you are rolling the ball at my feet. Your colleagues from the PS but also from the CDH are here today, to my great satisfaction, to the satisfaction of fundamental confederalists. Mr Delpérée, it is very interesting to note that you are reasoning within the logic of two democracies. Surprised to be together. Mrs Onkelinx, I would like to go one step further. When I hear you talking about the so-called unbalanced composition of the current majority, you are actually suspecting today that you are, in the depths of your thoughts, an omnipresent separatist. Any consequence would therefore benefit your credibility. You blame us for having baked a cake of your own dough. The cookie doesn't seem to suit you. Use the time in the opposition usefully and think about a new and better recipe. In the meantime, we are using the time to put socio-economic order in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, the table has just been distributed. I suggest that you take the time to look at this and that we suspend the sitting until 10:40 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u123	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u124	Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the organisation of work. But before I do, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Budget Minister for their action, which is not trivial – we must be able to recognize the facts – that is to say, the presentation of the picture we were asking for, even if we had to wait 12 hours. Mr President, this picture is obviously important and we must be able to analyse it. The collaborators are already studying it. Could we have a discussion on this table tomorrow morning when we resume our work. This would avoid "polluting" the organization of work and allow the debate to take place calmly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u125	As agreed, Mr. Nollet, we will continue the general discussion before moving on to the thematic discussions. First of all, we will address the issue of employment, the economy and the middle classes. We will then move on to pensions before dealing with the issues of finance, taxation and the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u126	When will we start the debate on the budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u127	This will depend on the progress of our work. If we can close the general discussion quickly, we can deal with the budget today. But I can't tell you now if that will be possible. Everything will depend on the interruptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u128	Mr President, may I speak for a moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u129	Sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u130	Mr President, we have received the table, but it is our firm impression that it is not complete. Either we have seen a spectacular turn of events in politics. For example, the impact of the index jump on social expenditure is not included. We do not think the table is complete. Can we ask the government to look into this? We see that the spillover index is exceeded a month later. That costs a lot, but we had understood that you would not grant that central index. That's not gonna happen. So I think the table is not complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u131	We take note of your comment and continue the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am fully aware that the negotiators did not have an easy task. Belgium, the impossible task, as it were, to paraphrase Remi Vermeiren. As strange as it sounds, this time it is the parties of the Flemish government who, together with 25% of French speakers, have kept the Belgian vehicle alive. Well, that'll take some getting used to, I admit. I don't even see the big break in the trend that's being announced with a lot of good will. The economic and social agreement of the self-proclaimed socio-economic recovery government is even particularly disappointing. A lot has been said about it today. At this late hour, I will not repeat all the amounts, but this index jump, which will result in the population losing purchasing power once again and which will take its entire career, is not a good measure for us. Another antisocial measure, a broken electoral promise, is the raising of the retirement age, allowing the hardworking Fleming to continue to pay the bill until it has literally crooked. Touching that statutory retirement age is not only antisocial, it is also totally unnecessary. The essence is that the length of the professional career increases by making work attractive, both for the employer and for the employee. The striking thing is that, during the many election debates, I did not hear any party argue for that higher statutory retirement age, quite the contrary. All parties, even N-VA, the party which, with its liberal Open Vld programme, is far behind, advocated in its election programme, like all the other parties, for the maintenance of the statutory retirement age at 65 years. I found that on page 11 of her election program, albeit the old version. That passage in the programme has already been adapted, as if it had always been so, probably the strength of a change in an electoral programme. I call that word break. I'm certainly not the only one who doesn't see the trend break, the big change. I've read a lot of economists. I'm picking one out. Bart van Craeynest, Petercam's chief economist, also states that this coalition agreement contains just too many measures that will not make the difference. Other economists are also not impressed. It's gonna take more, it sounds. Indeed, there are many measures that have been spread over a long period of time and various measures that can also be reversed by subsequent governments. And then there is the fact that there is not really a tradition in this country of carrying out long-term interventions. I shall certainly follow this closely and question you regularly, so that this time it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is not merely a policy of announcement. The early collection of taxes on pension savings, as announced by the government agreement, is a very classic and tried and tested budget structure. I would have expected that earlier from a government like Di Rupo II. The wage moderation of the previous government is simply being extended, nothing new under the sun. I heard Mr Verherstraeten on Radio 1 this morning very enthusiastically refer to economists who show that the socio-economic policy proposed in this coalition agreement is largely a continuation of Di Rupo's policy. Indeed, I heard Mr Verherstraeten say this afternoon: 'We have had to make choices'. Unfortunately, there are a lot of wrong choices. For example, there is no saving on a number of obvious issues, such as, for example, I would like to draw a not insignificant one from the flow of money to the European Union, where billions of euro are passed on to the southern EU countries. The transfers remain there as well. Without criticism, the bottomless pits, which continue to cost the Flemish taxpayer handfuls of money, will be filled. The so-called working bonus is then the skinny stick horse. This increased flat-rate deduction does not in any way outweigh the increase in excise duties, the index gap, the increase in retirement age or the extension of wage moderation. Those who say that the hardworking Flame will pay less, do violence to the truth. I also note that, in the post office, too little was saved. This government is doing less with two secretaries of state, but with a minister more than the previous government. However, it seemed logical to me that there would be some less, as the sixth state reform will transfer around EUR 20 billion. I have a specific question for you, Prime Minister, to which I would like an answer. The savings and reductions at the FPS, will you also make them to the Cabinets? I would like to know how many hundreds of staff will still be involved. Ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly disappointed by what is not in the coalition agreement. Wanted, but not found: the tightening of nationality legislation. Knowledge of the language of the region is still not included as a criterion for obtaining nationality. There is also no mention of any additional measures aimed at achieving an effective halt to immigration. On the contrary, the government is committed to intensifying economic migration. Moreover, the coalition agreement retains the dogma of unlimited free movement of persons within the European Union, while thousands of Flemish jobs are lost because of unfair competition from cheap labour from Eastern and Southern Europe. With regard to Asylum and Migration, this government continues to blindly dance to the European Union's immigration machine. Instead of redefining who enters the territory under what conditions, on the contrary, one opts for even more EU interference. Harmonisation of asylum and migration policies at EU level is what we call it in the government agreement, whereas, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely the European Union that is preventing us from pursuing our own sufficiently strict asylum and immigration policies. Wanted but not found in the Justite hatch, is the abolition of the Lejeune law. The so-called buy-back law, which allows the big fraudsters and other rich criminals to pay off their punishment, remains untouched. Effective measures are also lacking in the fight against organised foreign banditism, such as the reintroduction of targeted border controls. Finally, and then I am addressing the largest party in Flanders, I have been looking for the Community part. With Flemish nationalists in the federal government, I admit, my expectations were great. You had created those expectations yourself. Here is a quote from Mr.Jan Jambon, less than a year ago in De Morgen: "We do not start with a recovery government without a clear and strong commitment from the partners that Belgium evolves to a confederation. Without a clear commitment in this area, we do not bougat. It's simple, one can't do without the other. So my expectations were very great, but it became the greatest disappointment of all.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u133	Mrs Pas, I naturally feel addressed when you address me. You seem to say that we have not realised some of the things, and we have admitted this quite reasonably in the Chair. I have one question for you. What did your party ever realize?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u134	As a whip party, you know how democratic things are in this country...
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u135	We're a whip, Mrs. Pas.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u136	We didn't invent the cordon. We have created the support you claim to need in order to evolve into an independent Flanders. We broke those taboos. A number of proposals, first submitted by the Flemish Interest, were taken over by other parties. I am thinking of the Burka ban, or the 6% VAT on electricity. There are so many proposals that we have made first, which were subsequently implemented. We do not even need to put the plumes on our hat for that, as long as these things are realised.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u137	Mrs Pas, I do not think you are fully aware of what is happening in this House. We are witnessing a historic event here. After 26 years, the PS is in opposition. And you're in opposition with the PS. So you didn't realize anything, not even when you were the biggest party. You never realized anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u138	Mr Vuye, I have just heard you say that you have not broken any electoral promises. You went to the electorate with the promise of a confessional Belgium. All those Flemings who expected another Belgium, you have turned a wheel in front of your eyes. After all, what is the great revolution? Five, and probably even ten years of Community stagnation. Bravo, if that's what you promised the Flemings. You don't hear me complaining that the PS is on the opposition benches. But in five years they may be back on government banks. And what is the great revolution you have promised? Then where's the big change? They will then be able to reverse all your measures. You saved Belgium. Bravo! I looked for the Community you promised the electorate. I remember the time when you drove whole trucks of fake money to the South of the country, but over the transfers while you're looking for so much money and savings, I don't find a word, not even the least of it, to begin to cut down that billion-dollar flow. Nothing! About the donations, the protocol role of the royal family? No letter! Nothing about language laws, language rights and language obligations. Not even a non-binding move towards a further state reform. It's all neatly stored in the Senate's freezer. With regard to the sixth state reform, which you and we have fiercely opposed, the coalition agreement merely states that it must be carried out faithfully. None of it's gonna be straightened out. More than that, you're doing good things that barely destroyed you a year ago. Just as is the case in the Flemish coalition agreement, there is no letter in this government statement about Flemish ambition, not even a symbolic gesture and not even the Community pacifier of Article 195 of the Constitution. That too is untraceable, with indeed the risk of a ten-year Community absolute standstill. I wonder, then, whether the Community problem has suddenly been resolved. How do you intend to create a basis of support if you remain silent about the Community in the years to come? Instead of further convincing the Flemings of the need for more Flemish autonomy, they will have to be inspired by institutional stability and sense of responsibility. That is literally the first paragraph of the coalition agreement that you will approve tomorrow. To all my fellow Members, no need, the country has been saved as our Prime Minister expressed pride in De Standaard. He is very proud that all the Community files in this monkey country have been put in the refrigerator for at least five years, thanks to CD&V, the Open Vld and the N-VA. Or should I say NA? I hear I only have two minutes left. I will no longer be able to quote Maddens and Rondas and I will stick to how Mark Grammens put it: "Under the guise of the New Flemish Alliance, this party has used its constituents to achieve the goals of a New Belgian Alliance." We are consistent. The Flemish interest is still of the opinion that only fundamental socio-economic order can be put in place with more Flemish autonomy. That analysis was shared by the N-VA until a few years ago up to the turn of Bracke. The strength of change is apparently in full swing, but in the sense that the N-VA unfortunately has not changed Belgium, but that Belgium has changed the N-VA. The Flemish Interest fully realizes that Belgian recipes will not fetch Michelin stars and that these Belgian recipes will only cause acidic stomach popping and food poisoning to the Flemish citizens. In any case, we will not support this coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon I listened very carefully to the new MR Group Leader. I congratulate him on his assumption of office. I tell him very sincerely that I believe that he has really given the real motive for what we have been experiencing in recent days. I say it because I know that he is so close to the thought of his former party president, who became Prime Minister, Mr Michel, that I believe he is a faithful interpreter. In short, Mr. Ducrame came to give us the key to the real motivation of this rather paradoxical government majority. Breakup! You used that word I don't know how many times. You denounce 26 years of socialist presence in the government. It is true that an alternation logic can play, except that you were 19 years out of those 26 with the socialists. What you denounce as unbearable and which you have supported for 19 years, you do not find it in the head of those with whom you have not yet proved anything and who, suddenly, find a sublime and unexpected grace in your eyes. I would like to say how respectful we are of all those who, in their families, have experienced the most personal tragedies and horrors of the occupation. He found himself in the north, central and southern parts of the country to be victims of the Nazi regime, and there were collaborators in the north, central and southern parts of the country. But unfortunately, there are some voices that I dare to hope minority in the north of the country to try to excuse the collaboration again. That is what will forever remain a political problem. And it is a particularly remarkable courage: those who, among the Flemish political forces in the north of the country, have the courage not to succumb to the discourse of those who want to excuse the collaboration. More courage is needed in Flanders than perhaps in Wallonia and Brussels. I would particularly like to pay tribute to those in Flanders who have this courage.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u140	Mr Maingain, I have the impression that you did not listen to what was said earlier. You seem to isolate some political formations from others about the unambiguous condemnation of collaboration. You will have heard the Prime Minister, in this context, speaking on behalf of the government as a whole, as he said. And so it is the whole government and all the political formations that make up it that condemn collaboration. There's no ambiguity. It seems to be necessary to repeat, I do not know how many times, which has already been said many times. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to recall this one more time. As far as the breakup is concerned, I do not know if I have often used this term. I have often used, it seems to me, the term meeting of the Belgians, to bring together the Belgians. That is our intention and, indeed, we will be able to do it differently. We will be able to do so without the blockages that are often put on our way by the Socialist Party with regard to socio-economic reforms. It is an economic social government. We will never repeat it enough. And the breakup is that one. We have already found at least one fundamental element, the founding element of this government: this government agreement. We have agreed to move forward and to translate words into actions that will come quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u141	Thank you for saying even more brilliantly what had not yet been said. If I had any doubt of understanding, I recognize that you've just lifted it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u142	If you need further explanations, ask for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u143	Mr President, set up a confessional for Mr Ducrame in this House. He will receive all those to whom he must explain the new tables of the law! Mr Ducrame, I am not just listening to your comments. I have also listened to the one who has been absent from this assembly since the beginning of the work, the convener, the government mentor. From Shanghai, he said following this debate: "Foutises". Move, there's nothing to see! After that, Mr Michel has only to row to try to tell us what, in any government of a neighbouring country, would not remain unanswered. Imagine for a moment that in Germany, the United Kingdom, France, a minister had participated, even in his life prior to his ministerial office, in a meeting of supporters of the Hitler regime, he would not remain two hours in office. Only here do you accept it because the Emperor of Antwerp tells you "Foutais!" This is what you submit to, Mr. Michel! As for you, Mr. Bracke, you felt that your function allowed you to explain that you should not participate in the witch hunt of an old man. It is true that we must have respect for older women and men. But I would have liked to hear you say that as president of this assembly, you have respect for those who have been broke in their lives and who have never had the hope of living until the next few years. [[Applause on the opposition benches]] I come to your government statement. This is a great political and economic debate for Europe. In short, you have made the choice that some people have made in Europe, and particularly Germany: to focus everything on the competitiveness of companies. It's a real debate, and no one underestimates it. But believing that this is the only lever of economic growth, this is the major mistake of your socio-economic project. I recently took up the statements of an observer for European economic life, the director of the department of studies at the French Economic Observatory, Jérôme Creel. It provides a correct analysis of the beginning of the shortening of economic growth – and even of its decline – in Germany. What did he say in a recent interview? I quote: "The German economy sought to strengthen its competitiveness ten years ago, in order to be an efficient economy in its exports, to generate trade surpluses, and to this end carried out an intense policy of structural reforms in the labour market. This economy has decided to become more dependent on the international situation. From a political point of view, the Germans have secured their growth to their exports and competitiveness. In a very unfavourable economic phase in Europe and in emerging countries, as we know it today, the impact on the German economy was predictable. It's bad news for them, but it's not a surprise. And this is bad news for Europe and for the European countries that are in line with this logic alone." You have therefore decided to rely solely on the competitiveness of companies and to ignore what all economists, from Paul Krugman to others, recall: wages are not the enemy of economic growth, especially in times of recession or the threat of recession. Indeed, at some point, especially for you who have the speech of support from SMEs, the bulk of the support for a number of SMEs is the purchasing power of households. It is the ability to give SMEs, through purchasing power, the financial returns without which they cannot continue to develop, particularly at the export level. You take drastic and unilateral measures, for example, through index jumping. Personally, I will remain more nuanced: in the election campaign, I had this concern for intellectual honesty, which the MR did not have, to announce this index jump to voters. On the contrary, in a debate between Mr Chastel and Mr Di Rupo, on a plateau in Télésambre, the MR announced that he would refuse any index jump: "We will never lend our help to an index jump." Personally, I have always been more nuanced; I have always stated that I want to preserve the purchasing power of households and the lowest or middle income. In order to do so, wage indexation should be maintained up to a certain level, for example up to EUR 3 000 gross; then, after reaching the income theasurization tranche, we write down. This is not what you intend to do: you want to apply an index jump on all wages. In addition, you add the continuation of social moderation. And you're not doing what you committed yourself to, which was the focus of the MR's election campaign: the major tax reform on labour income. When you look at your fiscal trajectory, what is the budgetary effect of a major tax reform by lowering taxes on labour income? Nowhere! The only certainty we have when we look at your tables is that in full 2018, the eve of the elections, you will have punctured, at a minimum, 2.639 billion on the income of households and businesses. New taxation! You claimed, during your election campaign, that any tax reform would be neutral. But that is not the case! As Thierry Afschrift, a great tax specialist, said, this is a missed opportunity. There is no tax reform announced by this government because you decided not to respect what you had committed yourself to. You are not even fulfilling your promise of the significant gap between working income and replacement income. I remember what you promised during the election campaign. In particular, you promised a tax-exempt quota for all incomes below 13,000 euros. However, there is nothing in your government statement about this in your fiscal trajectory. You announced a review of the scales and tax brackets. But there is nothing on this in your text. You shouted everywhere that your statement was accurate. Give me a passage where you tell me very clearly what your new tax brackets are and what your new rates are! This is not mentioned anywhere in your statement. Why? Because, today, you should confess that the tax reform you promised was not payable, was not realistic. It is for this reason that it is not found in your paintings. Here's another deceit in front of your voters in your target body! Yes, you can try to make it look like you're breaking up. But that is not the case because you are in the wrong trend which unfortunately seeks to impose on us some bad advisers at European level. However, it will still be necessary to reflect in Europe on whether, among the best performing economies of the strongest countries, we must continue this endless logic of competitiveness, which is increasingly lowering wages, to the extent that wages will become so insufficient that we will not only face major problems of social insecurity, but also that we will experience major causes of weak economic growth in Europe. It is because we do not want to put this debate between the European countries, and more particularly within the euro area, that we are entering into a logic where the European States do not regain confidence between them. What the French Nobel Prize for the Economy says today is that if Europe is out of economic growth, it is because confidence is not there. It is not with your government statement that trust will be on the rendezvous.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u144	Beste collega's, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is serious. This may be the only point of agreement I would have with the government majority. Today, we are trying to sell ourselves as an innovative project to apply the methods that have been applied in a neighbouring country, which is the German model: wage moderation, flexibility, forced labour of unemployed workers. A widely tested model, widely tested in Germany, which was our great economic model. What do we see today? It is because the famous German dream shows its sad reality, which is that of an economy that is not only in the midst of recession but also has seen the largest number of poor workers add to its population. Is that what we want in Belgium? To this question, the PTB clearly answers: no, this is not the way forward. It is enough to see the lobbies and forces that congratulate the current government. I note that on each of your measures, the FEB congratulates you and the trade union organisations do not agree. The VBO is clapping their hands, the unions are reacting negatively. Let's analyse the file on pensions. It is said that pensions will be reformed. This morning, the Study Service of the Labour Party demonstrated in the newspapers that pensions will fall by 80 to 250 euros a month for certain workers and civil servants and that work will have to take two to five years longer. Laten we duidelijk stellen, collega's, we are not equal before death. Given the social reality, we do not all have the same opportunities and we are not all the same for death. The difference between someone with a higher degree and someone with a lower degree is eight years less life. The difference in life and health between those two different categories is between 18 and 25 years. This means that many workers will benefit from 1 or 2 years' pension today. By raising the retirement age to 67 years, the government wants to take those two years' pension away from workers and servants. Ladies and gentlemen, that is unacceptable to the Labour Party. I also want answers to the myth that we live longer and therefore have to work longer. Because we decided on a certain day to work less long, we began to live longer. The day we started living longer in our country is the day we decided to work less. Then, of course, there is the question of money: how will we pay pensions? In 2060 our pensions will cost about 14% of the domestic product. That is exactly what is already being paid in France and Finland today. Each year the ageing population will cost us 0.16% of GDP, but every year the domestic product, the total wealth we produce, increases by 1% to 2%. Then where's the problem? It's a matter of priorities. One chooses the wrong priorities. Another point that affects us very much is the question of the index, it is the belief that we will solve the crisis by moderation and wage decline. It is not a report of the PTB but a report of the National Bank of Belgium that says the opposite. What does the National Bank of Belgium say? It makes it clear that the reason for the poor position of our economy is the decline in domestic demand. Why is there a decline in domestic demand? Ask the workers around you! Because wages are under pressure! What do you find as a solution? Again compress the wages! We will be surprised as we continue the downward spiral that will lead us straight into the third recession since 2008. For us, this is totally unacceptable! This government will become a real machine for making poor people! The last thing that affects us is the influence of the nuclear lobby on this government. As all European countries decide to stop nuclear power, we are able to find a single government in Europe that says we are continuing. Not only do we continue but we see clearly that in the coming months, this nuclear fidelity will lead us to the complete blackout! A country like Belgium, in the twenty-first century, is unable to guarantee the supply of electricity to its population. Everyone cares about us in the world and we continue straight into the wall, for the sake of the simple reason that the government does not dare to attack this monopoly of Electrabel, which has the entire power of energy in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to end without touching a very important point for us. For 10 to 15 years, the various governments have been attacking our public services. Public service is very important! Public services are important! The privatisations of the ten to fifteen recent years are already unacceptable, but you are continuing along that road. What I particularly regret is your decision to undervalue SNCB. Now that so many commuters need the train, you want to send them back to the car. You want to give SNCB 2 billion less. That is totally unacceptable to us. Colleagues, I don't know if you feel it around you, but anger is rumbling. People are unhappy. People are mobilizing. We do not hear it very well in this Parliament. We're gonna do everything we can to open the windows and make the street sound. Today, it is with great satisfaction that we can express here our position on your right-wing measures and see it complemented by a citizen and trade union mobilization. We'll have to hear the balance of power on the street. The general strike slogan launched by the three trade unions for 15 December is a clear signal. It's a signal that resistance will also come from the street. As a political party, we will be here in this chamber to relay this balance of power. We are already calling for a first demonstration of a political party on the streets of Brussels next Sunday. If you want to come, you're more than welcome. We invite you to do so. Mr. Michel, we have to come. You have to see people who want to fight the right-wing measures you want to impose. You will see that the world in Belgium does not agree with the measures you are advocating. This raises the very important question of legitimacy. Where is the legitimacy of this government? I'm asking the question. None of your parties had included in their program that they would raise the pension age to 67. None of your voters voted to raise the pension age to 67. Where is your legitimacy? Most of your components did not enter in their program that they were going to make an index jump. That's the opposite! They communicated the opposite during the election campaign. You've knowingly lied to your constituents. Today, more and more Belgians are questioning the legitimacy of this government. I say this clearly, I sincerely hope – but without too much hope, I confess – that this right-wing government will return to reason. Today we must give priority to the social sector. We must now focus on wages and public services in order to redress our country and ensure the happiness of all our workers. If we don't pull ourselves together, we'll go straight into the wall and you won't be able to say that the PTB didn't warn you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u145	Mr President, I have one question. Excuse me, but I was a little late. However, when a communist starts to talk about an economic model, I am more concerned. Mr Hedebouw, I will certainly do so when he begins his plea with the words: "A study by the Labour Party shows that.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Many great economists and economists have already been quoted today and this afternoon. Our new Nobel laureate, Jean Tirole himself, has said that there is no money left to pay for socialism. We don't have the money anymore. It's all gone. He is therefore in favour of flexibility in the labour market, which is contained in our government agreement and which will, of course, be discussed in detail by our Minister for Finance. Why are you resisting the flexibilisation of the labour market?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u146	Mr President, Mr Metsu, my answer contains two elements. First of all, you're suggesting that there's no money. I'll find out. I really need to find out. We live here in a country where 12 000 new millionaires were added in 2013. So there's a lot of money in Belgium. The question is, of course, whether there is money to pay. Will the community and the political power activate those fortunes? You only want to activate the unemployed. You only want to get the money from them. After all, the problem is that many companies are at EUR 27 billion in cash, which is not being invested. That is the economic problem we are facing here. How are we going to activate these fortunes and not the unemployed? That is the issue that is being raised all over Europe. However, you will continue to do so. So if you ask me the question, I can help. We will probably also make a register of the fortunes in Belgium. This has not been included in the programme, but will probably be a necessity. We will immediately find that there is enough money in Belgium to apply a certain social policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u147	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, I heard Mr Vande Lanotte earlier say that it is very strategic not to answer a question and to start with something else. Why do you oppose flexibility in the labour market?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u148	I don't think she's offering any solution. What is the point of making people work more flexibly? I explained it earlier. If 1 000 people are looking for a job and there are 900 jobs, there are 100 unemployed. You can then take all possible measures to activate the unemployed and create flexibility. However, you do not add anything to the labour market. The problem is therefore on the labour market. So let's just keep life a little healthy for the people. Let's stop thinking that people have to pierce until 10:00 p.m., until 11:00 p.m., or until midnight. That's not life anymore. Any questions? [[Hilarity]] I liked answering questions. Is there no question? I'm fine here. I'll see you tomorrow then.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u149	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this government deserves neither our definitive censure nor our confidence. As a result, the People's Party will abstain in the nomination vote, but we will vote with a majority on certain bills. Our country needs reforms. A series of measures announced by Mr Michel's government are in this direction and in the right direction. Some also find themselves in extenso in the program of the People's Party and not in the program of the MR, the supreme paradox! Let us mention the "guilty plea" in criminal matters, which should speed up judicial proceedings, the necessary extension of nuclear power plants and the construction of new plants, or the work of general interest for the long-term unemployed! We will not join those who are burning wood to overwhelm this new government, while they have remained in power for almost 30 years on a continuous basis and are responsible for the current state of our country. While calling for vigilance with regard to our democratic values, I insist, while calling for vigilance with regard to our democratic values, we will not join the hypocrites who are offended by Mr Franken's participation on the anniversary of an old gentleman, while they were perfectly accommodating the support of the party whose latter was parliamentary in a past not so far away from it. Yes, therefore, in the face of the policies that have been pursued so far. That is why we will not vote against this majority. But this government also suffers from major misconceptions, original sins. As a result, we cannot trust him. A sin of pride in Mr. Michel's leader: why would you want to become a minister, reducing the MR's leader to an arbiter role and thereby defusing Francophone interests in delicate community arbitrations? Mr. De Wever, of course, had to take the lead in this coalition. He is also the true architect and leader. Why, Prime Minister, have refused, for low political reasons, the entry of a second French-speaking party and the contribution of some 150,000 votes to your coalition, which could have rebalanced things somewhat? I know, we're modest! You allegedly wanted to avoid the tumult that would have resulted from the participation of recent training in the exercise of responsibilities. Is that not democratic renewal? In terms of tumult, you are in any case well served! There is therefore, and by your fault, no parity in this government where Francophones do not weigh very heavily. The distribution of ministerial, regal and secretary of state posts is equally unbalanced, to the detriment of Walloons and Brusselsers. Finally, it is totally unacceptable for the government to compensate ARCO shareholders alone. What about the small shareholders of Dexia and Fortis? Why compensate the 700,000 ARCO shareholders and only those, except because they are widely confused with the voters of the CD&V? These vices set aside, our main criticism is about the timidity of many reforms, or even the inconsistency of some announcements. This relatively homogeneous government has lost a unique opportunity to make a real reform of Belgian taxation. This time more than ever, it would have taken the big bang tax, which drastically reduces the burden of taxation on labour, on the citizen and on businesses, to ensure a future for this country and for our children. However, this government finally announces measures at the margin, on tax brackets or professional fees, without an innovative overview and without a substantial reduction in the tax burden. You also intend to reduce social security charges for businesses from 33 to 25%. That was one of our proposals, by the way. But you immediately add a month of illness to the employer when a member of his staff is ill. This is, and you cannot ignore, the type of measure that severely penalizes SMEs and self-employed people, who are already suffering from the absence of their employees on sick leave and who now have to pay for an additional month. They will hesitate even more to recruit when they are the basis of our economy. On the energy issue, we believe we read between the lines that the years of setbacks initiated by Ecolo, as well as the chimeras of wind energy, will finally come to an end. The existing power plants will therefore be extended without the possibility of avoiding a devastating blackout this winter. All right! But there is no trace in the agreement of a proactive policy to ensure our energy independence. Where, for example, are the future thorium power plants that our country will need greatly? [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u150	Thorium. Go to the internet, on Wikipedia. You'll see, you'll have a good explanation. Your project therefore lacks breath, vision and ambition. A word about immigration. The Belgians want a stop at this one. Unfortunately, it will not come from your government. The measures announced, too timid, will obviously be insufficient to stop the constant third-globalization of our cities. As for the jihadists who fought in Syria and Iraq, they had made a choice; they should not be able to set foot again in Belgium. To re-educate them is a dangerous decoy. It is likely to be that of this government. Innocent civilians will pay the price in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u151	Thank you, Mr. Carcaci. This concludes the general discussion. We shall begin the debate on the subject, and we shall finish it in the order indicated on the distributed agenda: Emploi, Économie et Classes moyennes. I would remind you of the agreement that 10 minutes per speaker can be spoken.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u152	Mr President, I have a question about the order of business. I feel like you've changed your mind several times over the course of the day. You have given information to some colleagues who prove to be incorrect. Could we find out what's going to happen? Is the list of speakers exhausted and are we holding the budget debate at the end of the night or in the early morning? How do you see things? We would like some clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u153	This is difficult to predict, which depends on how we have experienced during this debate about the number of interruptions and the length of the interruptions. But we are indeed going into the night with the intention of finishing the agenda as far as possible. That depends on the interruptions, I can't predict that, I can't control that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u154	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u155	Mrs Onkelinx, I have not made any statement on this, I have always held a battle and said that this depended on the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u156	Mr President, this is simply an informative question because I want to inform my group members. Does this mean we're going through until tomorrow, or do you have an end hour in mind? There is usually a more or less agreement when we stop. Or are you saying that we are following the agenda, going through the whole night, and tomorrow we will see where we stand. Is that the point?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u157	Mr President, as far as the MR Group is concerned, we are following you. If you think you can make further progress in the debates and work for a few more hours, we have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u158	We will indeed continue as far as possible. That really depends on the number of interruptions and the number of speeches. I do not know which of the speakers is still here. The best way to find out is by getting started.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u159	Mr President, I can hear "as far as possible", but what does that mean? Is it 3 hours, 4 hours? Is it according to the speakers? As far as possible is of no concern to me; I can stay all night. I would still like to know how and in what way. Your expression is not precise. Do you set yourself on a number of stakeholders, on a number of hours? What are you relying on? For me, we can continue until tomorrow's vote. I don't understand the phrase "as far as possible." Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u160	Mr Mathot, you are asking me to predict the future, but I cannot. That depends on the speakers mentioned here.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u161	Mr. Mathot, the legislature has just begun. Are you tired already? It is clear that, if we decide to follow you, we cannot assume the length of the debates. So they'll take as long as it takes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u162	Mr President, it seems that nuclear power stations also have an impact on the Chamber's microphones. The Conference of Presidents made the right agreement to limit the number of minutes of speaking time and the number of speakers per group. I also think it is logical that we should continue for a while today. At the same time, the question of using the work is legitimate and logical. The agenda shows that quite a few speakers have been registered for the shutters "Kmovs, Work and Pensions'. If we can finish this in a good way today, we can start with a fresh head tomorrow with Finance and Budget. Then we're on timing. I think this is a good balance between the different questions. That is a proposal from our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u163	For the third time, Mr Calvo, we shall see. The future cannot be predicted, as has been demonstrated in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u164	Mr President, I understand that the future is unpredictable. But the agenda and the speakers are, since they have signed up. The question is simple: do you give yourself a time limit or do you intend to exhaust the agenda and all the speakers? It's either one or the other. I think the question is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u165	Mrs Fernandez, if we could see the opportunity to finish the agenda at a reasonable hour, it goes without saying that we will, because that is in everyone's interest. Everyone's gonna buy us some time.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u166	Mr President, I would like to recall what you said yesterday. When you were appointed President, you solemnly reminded us that you would be the President of this Parliament and not of this government. A little respect for parliamentarians! We're here, and we'll stay. But we'd like to know, Mr. President. I have never seen a chairman, a committee or a plenary, tell anything. "We'll see." No, we won't see! You know what the speakers are. All you have to do is tell us what minister we're going to. Respect must go both ways! You are not here to respect the government but parliament and democracy!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u167	Mrs Lalieux, all Members of Parliament are equal; we are all in favour of the same task, in particular the completion of this agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u168	Mr President, I would like to begin. I hope, however, that it will not happen as it did with the previous government declaration. After all, I have not forgotten, Mrs Lalieux, that our speeches on justice took place at 5.30 p.m. We were still present, but you were no longer present. If we could start now, perhaps this time we could conclude a little earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u169	Mr. President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am very fortunate as I am the first speaker in the examination of the first chapter of the second round. I would also like to thank you for your attention. Yesterday, in your government statement, Prime Minister, you said you refused the easy catalogue of good intentions. It is true that, already yesterday morning, on Bel RTL, you had developed this idea by saying that the previous government declarations were catalogues of good intentions often rather vague. However, your party had negotiated them, approved them, and carried them out in some previous legislatures. I therefore felt that this was not very fun for Guy Verhofstadt, the rainbow government, the purple government, for MM. Leterme and Reynders. However, as you have told us, your statement reflects a concrete and precise agreement. Indeed, we have just received a table with a few figures. But I come back to your government's intentions, Prime Minister. They can be classified into three categories. First of all, there are true good intentions, such as the one concerning employment, which is your first priority. There is indeed agreement on this point. In my view, over the past 30 years, there has not been a single government statement that did not refer to job creation as a goal. We can discuss how we want to achieve this goal, but that is only known later. You also refer to a multi-year plan against poverty. I will be the last here to say that this very good intention should not be realized. We will then look at the measures. And then, the last thing I note, is "we will pursue a positive policy towards people with disabilities in their access to employment, housing and leisure". I think housing and recreation are not really a federal jurisdiction, but I think people with disabilities are really reassured that we are going to pursue a positive policy towards them, at least at least for their access to employment. Second category in intentions: what I call false good intentions, those that hide the stick behind the door, those that constitute the fog necessary to hide the real intentions. I will return to the issue of social consultation, others have already done so, but I think it is an example of a false good intention. With regard to raising minimum social benefits, it is a good thing to raise them. You say that they will be brought to the European poverty line. Now I have to say I'm asking myself a question. Should I classify this in true good intentions or in false good intentions? If the idea is to raise our country's minimum allowances to the level of the poverty line in Belgium, as calculated by EU-SILC at European level, it is perfect. If, on the other hand, it is raising them to the level of a European poverty line, in an average that is obviously drawn from the bottom in countries such as Hungary, Bulgaria, which obviously have very low minima, it is not the same. And finally, third category: what I call bad intentions. I think we have already referred to a number of points or dossiers. I refer in particular to the intervention of my group leader, Laurette Onkelinx: index jump, pension at 67, compulsory work without pay for job seekers, some stigmatization of the unemployed, return to nuclear power, in short, there is indeed in this government statement a kind of catalogue of bad intentions. Having said that, Prime Minister, yesterday, in your statement, you announced to us the willingness to reach out to the social partners, with a plea for social consultation. For example, I note the sentence you said yesterday in Dutch: "In eleven geschiedenis hebben of social partners altijd een essentiële rol gespeeld." It is true that, as Socialists, we can only congratulate you on this sentence, which seems perfect to us. And there were others. If we stop at this passage, we are satisfied. In fact, you then explain to us that you want to reassess this social concertation: "de herwaardering van het sociaal overleg". To translate this re-evaluation, I note three situations. The first is the supervision of social consultation. Some colleagues have talked about it, including Jean-Marc Nollet. This is indeed a fundamental change in method. Social dialogue, the social partners, employers' and workers' representatives are working together on many issues relating to wages, work organisation, working time, accidents, and what I still know. Here you establish what has been called the "tripartite structural concertation". It is therefore a fundamental change in method with regard to several elements. The social partners will no longer negotiate with each other, but you are invited to the social dialogue table; you are an integral part of this consultation. This in fact means that the social partners are placed under supervision. It is then correct to say that, in this case, the balance of power is clear: it will be two to one, because the unions will be systematically in the minority: the government proposes only measures in favour of employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u170	Mr President, Mr Delizée, I have already explained that we will not exclude the Group of Ten and that the professional agreement and social dialogue will be respected. It's obvious. But it is true that we are introducing another formula that was already practised by the former government. Het is een tripartiteoverleg dat wij bijkomend aanbieden. We have two levels: the social dialogue with the Group of Ten and the tripartite level. But we respect the Group of Ten, the interprofessional agreement and the professional agreement in the various sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u171	Deputy Prime Minister, I heard you say that, even in Dutch. So I'm going to continue my demonstration. In the statement, you say that you will value social consultation. We can, of course, have a different reading of how this is going to happen. First case: put under guardianship. Secondly, what I call the confiscation or negation of social consultation. In the areas of Employment and Pensions, the government agreement provides for consultation with the social partners, but at the same time indicates the measures that have already been decided. Consequently, the social partners no longer have room for manoeuvre to correct these measures. They can hardly intervene anymore. It is therefore no longer a real social concertation. I will take five examples, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. First, the elimination of the wage gap. You've already decided to skip the index. Wage moderation is announced for 2015-2016, and even beyond until competitiveness is restored. The mechanism of indexation will be further reformed. We'll see about that later. And the modalities for the reform of the 1996 Competitiveness Act are already laid down. However, wage-setting was historically an area par excellence of social consultation. The second example is the Joint Committees. I ask you about these committees. The agreement states that the number of joint committees will be reduced in order to adapt to the evolution of the 21st century, of sectors, of the unique status of worker-employee. It is legitimate to review the landscape. But I ask you the question: do you intend to leave this competence to the social partners or will it be part of the tripartite consultation? I take a third example: the Renault law. I will give my five examples. But I am listening first of all to your answer as regards the Joint Committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u172	As far as the joint committees are concerned, you have already pointed it out, the problem of workers versus servants was properly addressed by the previous government. This means that many joint committees, where that distinction was still very clearly present, must now be merged or otherwise organised. It is quite clear that we must give maximum confidence to the social partners to reduce the number of joint committees. We are convinced that the number of joint committees can be reduced, which can improve the efficiency of consultation and certainly the functioning of these joint committees. If your question is whether we entrust this reduction to the social partners, then the answer is yes, but we have a clear signal that the number of joint committees can and will decrease in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u173	You leave it to the social partners, but they must reduce its number. We'll see if they don't diminish it. If they disagree, I assume the government will decide in the way you have decided. I assume that's how I have to understand the answer. The third example is the Renault law. Your agreement plans to reform it to allow the social conciliator to put an end to the first phase of consultation and information more quickly, even if the social partners – in this case, the trade unions – are not yet satisfied with the information available to them. In concrete terms, this reform means that workers' representatives will not always receive the time necessary to be properly informed and to formulate proposals to avoid collective redundancies, which was the original objective of the Renault law.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u174	Mr Delizée, unfortunately in the past I was confronted with the Renault Act on several occasions, namely the closure of Opel Antwerp and Ford Genk. What has emerged from this, especially as regards the first phase in which employees and trade unions in the company have the opportunity to propose an alternative to closure to the CEO and the Management Committee? We have found that even the workers are asking for legislation to be more efficient and to ensure that no time is wasted and that one can get to the heart of the matter faster than that employer and employee keep each other on a leash. So even if we reform the Renault Act, it is because we want to make them even more efficient, in favour of the workers who are faced with the message that their company is closing. Workers may have the opportunity to propose alternatives in the first phase, but they can simply be ignored by the employer. That is why we want to reform the Renault Act. We shall also discuss this issue with the social partners as much as possible. After all, they are very well placed. There are already proposals, for example to work with a social mediator or to work more efficiently on the alternatives, so that workers' proposals are listened to. Once again, in two major cases, I shall perhaps come back to it later, unfortunately, that the first stage of the Renault Act is actually a waste of time, especially for the workers, who want clarity as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u175	I'm following you when you say the Renault law doesn't go far enough. This has indeed been observed in other cases of very large closures. We are seeking this and have a proposal for a law, in particular on the right to alert workers, to go ahead with the difficulties and so that workers can make proposals and avoid collective redundancies. We will therefore have the opportunity to return to this point. In any case, what I note with regard to social consultation is that you allow us to put an end to the first phase of consultation and information more quickly, without prior social consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u176	Mr Vice Prime Minister, you will understand that I am a little emotionally linked to the Renault Act, as I was one of the authors of the initial draft. I hear from you that there are problems with the Renault Act, because on some points it may be too rigid, including in the stages and procedures. However, I would like to ask for clarification on the strategy which the government intends to follow in order to amend that law. Is it true that an adjustment will be possible without a consensus of the social partners? Does the government intend to amend the Renault Act, even if the government does not reach agreement with the social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u177	Mr President, I would like to reassure Mr Bonte, who is at the origin of this important law. Firstly, I would like to say that this legislation is necessary. Secondly, as you yourself have emphasised, adjustments are needed following an evaluation. In this context, I myself have experienced this very closely, so I can confirm that there is a need for adjustments. Now let me take away your concern. I am well aware that laws such as the Renault Act can only be successfully applied in the future if the reform is discussed, hopefully with the agreement of the social partners. As for many things in the field of employment, it increases acceptance and makes legislation more sustainable when we align the social partners. That is why the legislation is being applied better, and I am convinced of that. I will do everything I can to discuss this with the social partners and to carry out a reform which they consider acceptable and which they can support. As far as I am concerned, therefore, you have nothing to worry about. There's no hidden agenda behind it. It is not intended to reform the Renault Act without the social partners. On the contrary, the intention is to make that law better. I hope that you will also be able to discuss this with us when we put forward proposals or proposals here to make that law, which you know very well, more efficient on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u178	Mr. President, I'm on my way. I also wanted to talk about the area of labour modernization. Measures are already in place, such as the spread of working time or credit-time. So there is no real need for consultation. As far as pensions are concerned, I would like to point out that the committee of experts, which is often referred to, has again recently reiterated that one of the keys to the success of pension reform is social consultation. Clearly, your government has a very selective reading of this report as it directly sets all the rules of reform! Finally, some agreements with the social partners are called into question. I wanted to talk about collective agreements on pre-pensions, where the government is imposing a fundamental change on January 1 by providing for an increase in the age or career condition without consultation. We can also talk about working time calculated on an annual basis and the existence security fund. In the area of competitiveness, too, we believe that the effort is disproportionate. There is a further reduction in social contributions of EUR 1 billion, in addition to the EUR 1.3 billion provided for in the competitiveness pact. For their part, the workers, even if only through index jumps, will suffer a shortfall of around 2.4 billion euros. It is a dry loss for purchasing power and for the economy, especially for SMEs. I would also like to talk to you about social consultation within the worker-employee status. I would have wanted to talk about the guaranteed salary in case of illness – and this is a counter-example – for which the confederation of construction and the neutral union for independents is not satisfied. I will not go back to unemployment, but I am referring to what my group leader said. As far as people with disabilities are concerned, it is very good to advocate an inclusive labour market. We will see the measures for gender issues or the low hiring rate of allochtonians. As regards the employment rate of persons with disabilities, the ceiling can be discussed again. How far are you going to raise the ceilings? How much do you place the new ceilings? What is the budgetary impact of the measure? One hundred or 400 million euros? When do you intend to apply this measure? For me, the most important thing is to review the 1987 Allowances Act. Indeed, it will be difficult for a disabled person to move from the system of allowances to work and, possibly, a return, where this is not going well, to allowances. For me, that's the bottom line. This will be discussed with the Secretary of State at a later stage, probably in committee. In conclusion, Prime Minister, you said in your statement that you refused austerity for austerity. Actually, I think you've invented a new concept. You invented the austerity of common sense. You have understood that for us socialists, it is no! In a word as in a hundred, we reject the policy that you propose to us. It will prove to be economically ineffective and socially unjust. I wanted to conclude by saying that in the Socialist Group we are not sour or revanchard, as we often hear. It's not about us. They are the vast majority of the population, our fellow citizens, workers, pensioners, job seekers, young people and families. Be convinced of this, ladies and gentlemen, we are honoured to resist your policy and to lead the opposition to your harmful policy loud and clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u179	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, longer work is the message in the first two chapters of the present coalition agreement. That is quite understandable in itself. Everyone realizes that, in order to keep our social security affordable, we will all have to make a contribution. In your coalition agreement, however, you will only hit the ball in the camp of the workers and the jobseekers. Nowhere, but nowhere, is there any appeal to enterprises, let alone compelling measures to make work workable and to invest in the continued employability of workers. The age of unemployment with a single payment is being further increased, including for workers who have worked for years in a heavy occupation. Restructuring is becoming a lot cheaper for companies because they will be able to put their employees up to 60 years without a supplement and the additional amounts. From now on, therefore, these workers will simply be dumped into unemployment by naked layoffs. They're gonna get an extra blow-up. The seniority allowance, a modest supplement for unemployed people over 55, goes completely to the shovel. A 57-year-old worker who is dismissed after 35 years of work will now have to support his family with EUR 1 290 per month instead of EUR 1 410, while his chances of rehiring are virtually nil. In 2012, the share of the 55-plussers in recruitment was less than 3%. While in the 50- to 54-year-old jobseekers, a quarter have the chance to return to work within a year, this is less than 10% for the 55-plussers. If such a person finds work again, it is often in a part-time job. Employers are not ready to recruit a somewhat older employee full-time. They may want to take advantage of his expertise. Even then, this government has a surprise in store for him. If he has worked part-time for two years, his income guarantee benefit, which is intended to make work pay, will be halved. Today, the general secretary of the LBC, the ACV's staff centre, calculated that someone who takes gross 800 euros out of his part-time job would see his income fall by 284 euros as a result of that measure. If he adds up to the effect of the index jump, he sees his income drop by more than 23 %. The recruitment of 50-plussers probably wants to resolve you by abolishing the seniority allowances. You will probably refer to some report, but you will probably also have read that report selectively. A recent opinion of the High Council for Employment on the relationship between pay and seniority stated literally that "this analysis has shown that this is not currently the main cause of the low labour market participation of 55-plussers. Employers should be made aware of the need to develop an age-conscious human resource policy and to step up investment efforts in the training of their employees, especially for the low-skilled, in order to increase their employability and recruit more from older candidates. However, this is not mentioned in your coalition agreement. Businesses are being served at their fingertips with more flexibility in the organization of work, a further relaxation of the annualisation of working time and more overtime. But the age of the runways that allowed 55-plussers to stay at work but to a slightly milder working regime, is increased further, to 60 years. However, in a recent study of the Work Support Point, it was just warned that this would lead to more complete retirements. Whether it's time credits or runways, you can reduce any measure that allows people to organise a relaxed career. Anyone who says that people need to work longer must also have a vision of how this is made possible and how people can be motivated to work longer effectively. But I can't find anything about that in your coalition agreement. It's about retirement. You use the Commission's expert report on pension reform as an umbrella to unilaterally raise the retirement age. You are well aware that this was not a committee proposal. What do we read in the expert group report? We read that the financing of our pensions must also be done by asking for a fair contribution to those who make money by having money, so to those who have a great wealth. You won't. Everyone agreed that it had to be longer careers. The first thing you do is raise the statutory retirement age and abolish the pension bonus. The latter will work counter-productively because today, that bonus allows people to be motivated to work longer. Structurally higher pensions. The first thing you do is an index jump. Especially for people with low pensions, this means a lot at the end of the month. If we say that this government is serving the companies at their beck and call, this majority is ready to argue that the companies must also contribute and will pay the first two months of guaranteed wages if their employees are ill. At first sight, that seems to be a positive fact for the employee, but is that actually true? The employers are already unwilling to employ 50+. Do you really think that if they have to pay a guaranteed wage for two months, they will now? I doubt that. You should do something about discrimination against older workers in the labour market. In short, you are giving everyone who wants to work and who realizes that longer careers are necessary the signal that they have to draw their plan, that they have to organise it themselves and that this government will make the bill at the end of the journey. In what way and in what state do you really not care about the end of your career? That is not fair, because before the elections you promised to support people in order to make longer work possible. That is unfair, because you are asking for everything from people and reducing their purchasing power only in order to spare the great abilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u180	Mr President, I would like to take the floor. I have heard the criticism a few times that there are no accompanying measures in the coalition agreement to keep older workers on the labour market. I think that everyone agrees that these accompanying measures are necessary, but I find the criticism that nothing of this is reflected in the coalition agreement somewhat unjustified. There is something about making work workable for older workers. We are talking about redefining tasks and job content. This cannot be done everywhere, but it is possible in most sectors. My contacts with a number of companies have confirmed that, for example, giving a role as a coach or craneman instead of carrying stones or driver instead of running behind the truck are all practical interventions that can make a job workable again. The government agreement also includes a number of measures on training for older workers so that they can re-orient their careers and allow them to include the latter part of their career other tasks that are more appropriate both physically and mentally to the capacities they currently have. Finally, there is also guidance in the workplace, although I have to admit that this is not always obvious and that there are not always the financial means for it, also because of the employers. A second measure that we find in this coalition agreement is that we are talking about a different wage curve. This government agreement talks about a wage that will be based on competences and productivity, not just age and seniority. This means that employees have to earn more when they are at the top of their careers, when they are more productive, but also when they need the money more, when they have to pay off a house and have small children. Thus, the wage curve can decrease in the last part of their career. Employers have already indicated that, although this is not the only factor, it is a very determining factor for the employment of older workers. We are here at federal level, but we must not forget that the Flemish government agreement contains some targeted reductions in the burden of hiring older workers. I am not sure, but I assume that the Walloon coalition agreement is also moving in that direction. A third means of achieving this is the introduction of flexible careers, including the introduction of a career account that has already been discussed. This allows, at certain times, for certain parts of the career, overtime or periods of longer work to be converted into reduced or shortened timetables at the end of the career, without any loss of earnings at that time. This will automatically make work more workable for those older workers. I conclude by saying that everything actually has to do with a change of attitude, which is not easy for employers, but also for the other players in the labour market. We must start to believe that these older workers can also add economic added value to businesses. Finally, do these measures provide guarantees? No. We also need to think about the alternative. If we do nothing, if we do not get older workers to work any longer, then we are heading towards a serious shortage of pensions, and that would be the most antisocial thing we can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u181	Honestly, I think older workers should be kept to work. Not so much for pensions, but when we look at the predictions, we will not have enough workers if we do not keep everyone working. That is one of the main reasons why we have introduced these mini-jobs in Germany in order to get women into the labour market. This is not the custom in Germany because the schools are open in the morning. So I am quite in favour of an age-related staff policy and I am following Mr Spoorten. I have made a few attempts in recent years. I have to say that there is indeed a need to change the attitudes of the workers, and I think that something has already changed quite a bit in a short time. When I started, the average age at which one retired was 58. Now we go to 60 years, in two and a half years. However, I have also found that this is not indisputable in many employers' organizations. I would like to say something about this later, but in the discussion we have had in order to ensure that every worker has one day's training in the field of competitiveness, it was impossible, when all specialists say that if people want to work longer they must also ensure that they are trained throughout their lives. A second element is the age pyramid. When they're fired, they always fire the oldest people first. That's obvious. However, we had asked for a little balance to be struck. If young people are fired, they will also find work faster. That was unspeakable. I wish my successor, Minister Peeters, all the best in this respect, but it will not be obvious. I can see that there is a need for a change of attitude from one person to another, while others are being given very strict measures to force them. With regard to wage costs and seniority, there is a new study by the High Council for Employment which came out about a week ago. This study states that it does not matter to low-skilled and low-paid people as their wages are much more flatter by the end of their career. The current government says it does a lot about wage costs. We decided to reduce the wage costs of around 33 % for RSZ in 2019 to 26,79 %. So if you want to go to 25 % you have to make an effort of 1.7 % where we made an effort from 33 % to 27 %, from 6 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u182	My colleague has already said some of it, but I would like to endorse it. You referred to the efforts this government is making and you list a few. You say you will provide training. I can only welcome that. Training is necessary not only for older workers but also for all workers. I can only welcome that. However, I do not read much about it. You also said that a career account should be able to offer a solution to make the career a little more flexible, but how do you see that? Do you want to enter them individually? You quoted a few examples of companies where it worked very well and where people switched jobs, but I can cite examples of companies where that was not possible. I'm afraid those people were on the street. There was no room for those people in the company. I don't read much about that either. What I certainly do not hear is that you can take as many measures as you want, but as long as you do not change the mindset of employers and they do not have to write off the 50-plussers because they are an added value for the company, you may take measures as much as you want, they will not do anything. I miss that in this coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u183	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of older unemployed and older workers is rather complex, especially in order to tackle them in a positive way. Mrs De Coninck, you have taken a lot of measures in the past, but of course it is about a combination. I refer to the reduction in charges, which we are continuing to implement, the obligation to provide training, which is also an important element, and the way in which the job classification is handled in the sectors. I also agree with you, Mrs Kitir. As far as employers are concerned, a different approach will have to be taken to the older unemployed and older workers. Why? You're right. If one looks a little further than his nose is long, one can see that, taking demographic trends into account, we will have a shortage in the labour market. It would be a shame for employers not to see them using older workers and older unemployed people. It is true that we will have to speak clearly with the employers about this. We will also have to make a number of clear agreements with them. Much has already been improved, but it is not possible, as it used to be, to underestimate the value of older workers and to lay them off without much waste or to be used efficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u184	Mr. President, I'm gonna talk from my bench. Mr Minister for Consumer Protection, fortunately you bear the title, because I did look in your statement of government, apart from a column in the chapter "Justice and security", there is absolutely nothing in this area. I have never seen that consumer protection comes from justice and security, it is innovative; finally an innovation in your statement! Very clearly, consumer protection, price control and purchasing power are really not a priority of this government, at least not in its government statement. When you talk about consumer protection, what is even more symptomatic is that it is just good competition and market law. As usual, the invisible hand of the market... From the moment the market works, if I can express myself like this, everything will be fine for the consumer. Throughout the previous legislature, the government has shown that in order to reduce prices... Let us take the example of the Price Observatory that we created and that you are about to zero. The Price Observatory will only serve businesses and competition. Thanks to the Price Observatory, we were able to show how much higher prices were in Belgium than elsewhere. We've blocked energy prices. It is through State action on prices that it is possible to work on purchasing power and lower prices in Belgium, and not through competition, which we know is not working today. There has been an excellent work done by Mr Vande Lanotte, by the previous government, and we have the impression that this work is being ignored, since the tools that have been built hard will be undermined. You are even undermining the role of the FSMA, which was created for the protection of consumers in financial matters and which is led by an MR. I am very disappointed, I will tell you, in the "Consumer protection" section. I don't even expect an answer, minister. I hope, however, that you will be working on this subject for your general policy note and that there will be something about these conditions. I'm not talking to you about over-indebtedness either. We know that over-indebtedness is a difficult issue for many of our families. The only thing that's stipulated is that you're gonna throw them all out, even rents. It's the return of the big files, the big blacklists, and you're gonna throw them all in the Carrefour Bank. I very sincerely believe that you are making a mistake with regard to the work that has been done in this Parliament. We have done a great deal of work and we really have the impression that this work will not be done under your government. You're not talking about the problem of financial services; you're not talking about everything about insurance – everything that's life insurance, mortgage, there's nothing! You are not talking about the difficulties associated with credits. It's empty! I hope that you will fill this void later in a general policy note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u185	Mrs Lalieux, I can assure you that I will also take that part of my powers very seriously and that I will develop the elements more in the policy paper you are looking forward to. I have noticed that a great deal has happened during the previous legislature. From a different point of view, as Minister of Agriculture, I have looked closely at the whole issue of the price observatory. I hope that I can surprise you with the policy paper and that you will be able to say that the policy of the previous government will not be destroyed, but will continue in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u186	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak a little about the SME chapter and to express my disappointment. I had thought that SMEs were going to be at the party but I realize that the mountain gave birth to a mouse, and I am sure that very many SMEs will quickly disappoint. The few relatively concrete measures announced by your government are, for the most part, in the wake of the previous government. Simplification, reduction of administrative burdens by 30%, generalisation of e-invoicing or second chance entrepreneurship. Themes defended by the former government in short. Nothing new under the sun, then. Minister, of course, we agree that entrepreneurship and the spirit of entrepreneurship should be encouraged. Of course, there is a need to change attitudes regarding the vision of failure, which is still perceived to be far too negative. Nevertheless, let me regret that this culture of second chance is not extended to the whole population. Stigmatize, divide, create amalgams are usually verbs you prefer. As far as SMEs are concerned, the pen that has written your roadmap has been soaked in a bad mix of ideology and sponcif. Thus, the government's primary concern is to unblock all current SME regulations. And to ensure that the work is done properly, independent organizations will be asked to do it. Of course, I am new in this Chamber but it is still the MR, in the person of Sabine Laruelle, who has been in charge of SMEs for more than ten years. Has she been so bad that you're doing the inventory? With regard to a key point of financing where very many small SMEs are waiting for you at the turn of the day, you will evaluate, hand in hand with Febelfin, the new legislation governing relations between banks and businesses. In other words, you already want to review a law that is not even more than a year old. It is true that this law was for Febelfin synonymous with bureaucratization, judicialization and formalism. Once again, I am new to the House, but it was still Minister Laruelle who was in the act of manoeuvring. To believe that amnesia is spreading in this government. I would therefore like to remind you of the strength of this fundamental law on access to credit for SMEs. To create sufficient transparency with regard to the supply of credit in its pre-contractual phase, so as to enable the undertaking to make an informed deliberate choice and to compare the contractual conditions of the various lenders. Second objective: rebalancing contractual relations between banks and SMEs. Should it be understood that the requirements of companies in terms of transparency, information and the fight against unfair clauses should not be met? And that banks must be able to act with impunity again? Should it be understood that the rebalancing of relations between banks and SMEs was a mistake? Febelfin has not been forgotten by this government, it is a fact. The same cannot be said of the necessary support for entrepreneurs, nor of the fundamental problem of undercapitalisation of enterprises. What about the revision of notional interests so that they can really benefit SMEs? A forgetfulness, no doubt. Mr Minister, let the market be made, limit external intervention to the maximum, the barriers as you say: this is a summary of your SME programme. It's a fact. All of this makes me want to tell you that your government's vision for SMEs is actually slim, but it will be far from effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u187	Our congratulations to Mr Delannois: it was his maidenspeech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u188	Mr President, welcome to Mr Delannois; I hear that you are new to this Parliament and I imagine that you will also be a new member of the Committee on the Economy. However, I invite you to read more deeply all that you have just mentioned in relation to SMEs. You don't know me, but I'm a liberal parliamentarian. For more than six years I have been following the actions of the Minister of the Middle Classes and SMEs, Sabine Laruelle. I would like to emphasize this evening – it is sad to have to stress this once again – all the hard work and efforts made by Sabine Laruelle for 7 to 8 long years to achieve that we can also work in a society where the self-employed are admitted. That is the obvious, Mr Delannois: it is the merit of the hard work that the Liberals have done over the last eight years.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u189	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u190	Ah, he said that? How silly: I must have a problem with understanding. I probably misunderstood, but it's probably due to the late hour. I would also like to warn the translators that the end of my speech will be in German. Colleagues, waarde collega's, Prime Minister, verehrte Mitglieder dieser Regierung, since 2007, I have been particularly interested in economic matters. They are the driving force behind employment. It is businesses and entrepreneurs who offer and create jobs. In the past two legislatures, I have fought in the Committee on the Economy to create a favourable environment for citizens who wish to deploy their talents and energy in the service of our country through entrepreneurship. These independents and leaders of small and medium-sized enterprises, some view them with contempt, calling them wealthy, capitalist and selfish. Yet it is they who create jobs, it is their hard work that enables prosperity in our country and which finances our social security system. Over the last ten years, our liberal minister Sabine Laruelle has sunk many measures in favour of the social status of the self-employed, so far completely left behind by the former politicians. It has made up for their status by being able to equalise the amount of certain allowances with that received by the employees. A child is equal to a child. It is in the continuity of his work, allowing more equality between the different categories of workers, that the action of this government is firmly in line. The measures listed in the agreement, aimed at aligning pension plans and strengthening insurance--I discovered this last project in the agreement--have won our full support. The same applies to the creation of a second pension pillar for self-employed individuals. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium's wage disadvantage compared to its main neighbours, France, the Netherlands and Germany – and I am well placed to say so, given my region of origin, which is very regularly concerned with this problem – has increased steadily in recent years. Measured since 1996, it is now estimated at 4.8%. This has had the effect of curbing the creation of jobs, contributing to the destruction of existing jobs, particularly in industrial sectors with a high labour density. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission has been calling for Belgium to restore the competitiveness of its businesses for several years now. The government – and I congratulate you, Prime Minister – is committed to eliminating this handicap before the end of the legislature so that Belgium can once again find itself in an economic dynamic of job creation. Colleagues, the work must be better rewarded, valued and respected. It is necessary to remove the pitfalls at work. The worker's pocket salary will be increased by a reduction in the costs of gross remuneration. Two measures are of particular interest to me, namely the reduction in employer contributions from 33 % to 25 % and the exemption from the charges on the recruitment of the first three workers in small and medium-sized enterprises. By promoting more flexibility in the organisation of work, our citizens will be able to balance their professional and private lives more precisely. The principle of the career account, which has already been discussed at length during very lively debates this Wednesday, a kind of saving of time and remuneration, will allow everyone to face with dignity the hazards that glaze life, certain family events or the evolution of professional projects. The extension of the time credit, in the case of parental leave, assistance leave or palliative care leave, to an additional 12 months will also help – I witness our new Minister of the Economy, whom I greet and congratulate on his new duties – a more humane, modern and above all freer way of considering his career. In the economic chapter of the government agreement, the emphasis is also on a strong intention to make the labour market more inclusive, respectful of equal opportunities. Indeed, access to employment and skills-related remuneration is still more difficult for certain groups, such as women, persons of foreign origin or persons with disabilities. To this end, the Government will work to further reduce the wage gap that still penalizes women. In order to promote the professional activity of persons with disabilities and their partners, the government will expand the possible cumulation between the integration allowance and the professional income, whether it is received by the person with a disability (labour price) or by his or her spouse (love price). Concerns about the cost of entrepreneurship measures have all emerged in recent days. However, it is through administrative simplification that 30% of expenditure cuts will be achieved through a greater computerization of procedures that technology of our time now allows us to achieve. For all these reasons – and many more of which we, ladies and gentlemen, will have the opportunity to discuss over the next few weeks and months in various committees – the MR Group will work hard to implement this government agreement to which we give our full confidence. The president told me that I still have a minute to speak. Als einziges Mitglied aus der Deutschsprachige Gemeinschaft in diesem Plenum, möchte ich hier noch mal das Wort ergreifen und unserem Premier Minister noch mal sehr herzlich gratulieren, ihm viel Mut und viel Kraft bei der Umsetzung dieses Regierungsabkommen wünschen, und auch der ganzen Regierungsequipe meinen Vertrauen und Zuspruch geben. Ich will der Premier Minister auch darauf aufmerksam machen, dass er, davon bin ich mich auch gewiss, für alle in diesem Land da sein wird, dass er mit allen Sorgen auch Rechnung tragen wird, dass er auch die Spezifität der Teilstaaten kennt, die Spezifitäten aller Teilstaaten, insbesondere auch die Spezifität der Deutschsprachige Gemeinschaft, und dass er die DG in den kommenden Wochen und Monaten auch noch besser kennen lernen wird. Ich bin davon überzeugt, dass er das machen wird. Lieben Kollegen, packen wir das an, die Arbeit ist groß, die Herausforderungen sind enorm, richtig und notwendig für unser Land. Rüsten wir es auf für die kommende Generation, um diese Generation auch eine Chance und Zukunft zu geben.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u191	We are now entering into the thematic debate on Pensions. There is only one speaker, Mr. Daerden.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u192	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you are announcing a government of responsibility. The problem is that you place this responsibility on the worker, the job seeker, the youth, the public servant, the elder. They will have to sacrifice part of their well-being so that your government can carry out the specifications of its mentors, the Voka and the FEB. From this point of view, when it comes to pensions, we are in the caricature. It is on this subject that your attacks on Belgians are the most brutal and unjust, in disregard of social consultation. Prime Minister, we will, of course, wait to see the texts and detailed budget tables to measure the real extent of the damage. Recognize that the elements on the table are indigestible to the vast majority of our fellow citizens. This was noted in the early polls and we also see in our contacts with the population and workers in the streets, factories, supermarkets. It is indigestible on form and indigestible on the background. On form first. You took the Belgians by surprise on the decline in the legal pension age. Nothing was announced in the party programs of your majority. The new Minister of Pensions, Mr Bacquelaine, who came from your party, said again on October 5th on the plateau of Pointing – we were there together – that we had to work on the real age of departure to the pension and not on the legal age. You yourself, before the elections, answered in the weekly Le Vif, of 22 April 2014: "For the MR, there is no question of reaching the legal age of retirement at 65!" Recognize that this is an unacceptable deception! Therefore, to trivialize the impact of your intentions, as your colleague Alexander De Croo did last Sunday, is once again to deceive people. If your reform affects so few people, what is its usefulness? In the end, can you tell us how many people will be affected by your reform? Beyond that, you explicitly claim the report of the Pensions Commission and the recommendations it has made, particularly on the 67-year-old pension. You know this report is a building, and you can't buy the apartments separately. Whether or not we agree with this report, it is based on a global balance. You will deliberately violate him by isolating the measures that best suit you. Your systematic references to the Commission's conclusions are therefore usurped. Its members have already rightly distanced themselves from the main measures you want to take. I would point out that you want to apply them brutally, while they advocate a long transition. We will see in the budget figures. In substance, no one denies that it is necessary to address the issue of sustainability of pension financing, in order to ensure the sustainability of this fundamental part of the security of life. No one denies that there is an increase in life expectancy. We must rejoice! But there is too little talk about healthy life expectancy, which is different for different genders and regions. In Belgium, it is 65 and a half years old, younger than your recommended retirement age. We have to take that into account. We cannot advocate immobilism, it is obvious, but of grace, let us not fall into alarmism! Mr Minister of Pensions, you are pleased - as you told me yesterday - to mention that one of your predecessors, who is dear to me and who is the author of the groen boek, mentioned the need to work on average three more years. But while the problem concerns the effective age of retirement, you respond by lowering the legal age. You're completely missing the target. This measure has no meaning but to satisfy the employers and give guarantees to a European Commission which formulates proposals in disregard of our social and economically counterproductive model. I would point out that even Germany, whose socio-economic model seems to inspire you, has dropped the retirement age from 65 to 63 for more than a third of employees. Prime Minister, you are attacking the lives of people, the lives of Mr. and Mrs. All-the-World. And that, you won't be able to occupy it. Of course, the proposals you make still have some positive elements, let us be objective. I will mention the alignment of the pension of single self-employed persons with that of employees. I am pleased to see that you are continuing the work of the previous government, which had re-aligned the pensions of the self-employed heads of household. The increase of the Grapa. The commitment to make specific arrangements for heavy trades in consultation with the social partners. But the negative elements are of such magnitude, Prime Minister! You had 'Walter the bookseller'; let me tell you about 'Gaston the mason', who has been working since his 18th birthday and who, with your hardening of the early pension, will still have to climb on scaffolding until the age of 61. As Mrs. Laurette Onkelinx said, this is insane. Or, 'Clear the grievor' who is a teacher and who will see her pension decrease by a quarter with your frontal attack on public service pensions. This is a unilateral questioning of commitments to people at work for years. On the other hand, people do not want to live in insecurity. The point pension creates uncertainty. It's a way that we deserve to be interested in. However, since the value of the point remains unknown, the system is uncertain and could lead to injustice, since it will make pensions a variable for adjusting the state budget. It's totally insecure. I will sum up your reform in a few words: working more to earn less! Working more: restrictions on access to pensions, stricter conditions for access to early pensions and survivor's pensions. Earn less: not taking into account years of study for the calculation of the pension or changes in criteria for similar periods. Your reform is also a strengthening of the second pension pillar. You give little guarantee of the complementary nature of the first pillar and of its management in social consultation. But what shockes me the most is that you justify this reform with supposed fatalism. As if the necessity was necessary for you and only a keen sense of responsibility would allow you to look at reality in the face. With your so-called socio-economic government agreement, it is up to the majority of Belgians to go to the caisse to pay the bill. Large capital holders are never solicited, owners of large assets are never solicited. Prime Minister, we will never let this abusive speech go, but, as I said, we do not advocate immobilism. Other solutions exist to strengthen our pension system, without putting the full weight of effort on the shoulders of workers alone. The general increase in the employment rate should be encouraged for all age groups, for young people and also for workers over the age of 55, in particular through end-of-career arrangements. Obligations must be placed on employers in this direction. We must increase the employment rate beyond 55 years but certainly not by removing the job bonus. We need to broaden the funding base of our pension system; a capital gains tax could help. Contribute to capital holders in order to save the pensions of hundreds of thousands of Belgian workers and ensure a first pillar of strengthened pension. Another tax on the second and third pillars for the benefit of the former could also contribute to this. As you will have understood, in the PS, we are in favour of fair pension reform, for the benefit of as many people as possible, which benefits not only banks and insurance as part of a comprehensive life security policy for all, which integrates the fight against poverty, health care, the fight against youth unemployment, taxation and employment policy. Ensuring a decent pension for employees, civil servants and the self-employed is the responsibility and honour of a State. It is to be grateful to those who have helped to create the wealth of our country. It is to allow them to enjoy a well-deserved and serene rest, by tending towards a pension amount that guarantees them the threshold of well-being. What you're proposing is the opposite. It is an unjust, ineffective and therefore unacceptable reform for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u193	Mr President, first of all I would like to say to my distinguished colleague that I am both somewhat surprised and disappointed. Honestly. We know each other well and have had the opportunity to talk about this problem at times. I therefore expected you to offer us some strong suggestions for reforming the pension system; I am still hungry. Of course, in order to save the social protection system, including pensions, the employment rate must be increased. That's basically what you've been advocating for as a cure. But that's exactly what we're doing. It is impossible to envisage a reform of an important sector of social security, such as that of pensions, without integrating it into a policy aimed at increasing the employment rate, i.e. increasing the number of contributors, of taxpayers to finance this social protection. That is the very spirit of the government declaration: to strive for reductions in the workload on work which will increase the employment rate in Belgium, particularly in the context of social consultation; you have talked about it and it remains indispensable. I will remind you of the scope of the question. Indeed, you seem to admit that the job bonus and a few small measures are sufficient. I'm surprised. In fact, in 2006, the pension system cost $25 billion. In 2013, seven years later, it costs $36.5 billion, an average supplement of about 1.6 billion per year. It is therefore necessary to add to this other figures: retirement in our country: 59 years and a few months, while everywhere in Europe it is over 61 years old. Everywhere in Europe. The employment rate for the 55-64 age group: 41% in Belgium, while across Europe it is above 50%. So if we look at these figures in their reality, when we add life expectancy to that, and in particular healthy life expectancy, because I heard my colleague Daerden talking about the problem of healthy life expectancy, which was 65 years old, that's probably true, but where do we come from? And where are we going? That's the real question. For my part, I remain fundamentally optimistic because I find it good to have a longer life expectancy and to be healthy longer. And I think that the current advances in medical science and science in particular allow us to consider that there might even be an exponential character in the coming years in terms of life expectancy and, above all, in terms of healthy life expectancy. So, if we do not take strong measures today, we are in fact irresponsibility and I believe that we must take measures such as guaranteeing a financially sustainable and socially efficient system. So I would still like to come back very quickly to some of the elements of the reform that we are proposing. First of all, we focus on lowering the age at which pensions are taken, particularly early pensions, and reducing them over time. It is also a reform that has been undertaken under the previous government, let us be clear. We didn't make that up. This was done in the previous government: gradually and until 2016. You know, I'm not a revolutionary, I'm a proponent of evolution. And so, I think we've done it and we're still planning to do it; the decision dates from the previous legislature until 2016 to reach 62 years of age. We propose to continue this reform in 2017 and 2018 to reach 62 and a half years and then 63 years. With, of course, conditions of career that make for exceptionally longer careers, the early pension could be taken at 61 years in 2018 provided that the length of the career is sufficient. To this end, we now propose a course and a signal in relation to the statutory pension age of 67 years. But not in this legislature or even in the next one. I prefer to remain in my reasoning because I think that on this subject it is necessary to be pedagogic and not to advance assertions as obvious. For example, it has been heard several times that everyone is going to work more or less until the age of 67. We are obviously not at all in this case. Today, only 10% of the population retires at age 65. This means that 90% of them take their pension earlier. If we gradually increase the early pension at a significant age, like 63 years, the differential between the legal age of the pension and the early pension must remain significant. Otherwise, we are in total inconsistency. This is also one of the reasons why the abolition of the pension bonus is consistent. You know, like me, the pension bonus, we can only take it a year after the early pension age reached. For example, if it's 63 years old, you can't take your pension bonus until you're 64 years old. If, in a legal pension system, you give the bonus at 64, is it still consistent? All the more so since the Committee for Studies on Ageing has published a very interesting study on the evaluation of the pension bonus. The conclusion of the study is that the pension bonus did not serve any purpose at the level of the extension of the period of activity. This had no measurable effect on the extension of the period of activity. From the moment we refused to introduce a malus pension... that would have been problematic, it seems to me. The malus pension meant that the amount of people's pension was reduced. We were not in favour of that. First of all, because as we have removed for the independents, we are not going to add it for everyone. The pension bonus is only justified in the case of a bonus-malus. We rarely talk about a bonus on our own. We often talk about a malus bonus. And if you introduce a malus, you can also think of introducing a bonus. Here, we deleted the bonus because we refuse to introduce the malus. I think we're right. This in no way alters evolution. This has never been an incentive so far. Please, let's not complicate the system unnecessarily. I never hid from it, I obviously did not say that it was out of the question of raising the pension age from 65 to 67. I said, and I say again, that it was not in my party's agenda, nor in the other parties' agenda. On 16 June, after the elections, we had the tabling of the report on pension reform 2020-2040, led by a well-known former minister whose name I will not mention. What was the reaction of the press at that time? [[Minister shows a document]] The main thrust of this report was to link the conditions of access to the pension with life expectancy. I quote from the report: "In order to cope with the papy boom, this link must be implemented in an accelerated manner. This means in concrete terms that the legal pension age would rise to 66 years in 2025 and 67 years in 2030." That's right, that's one of the assumptions, that's one of the scenarios. This was the preferred scenario, the press did not make a mistake, the day after the report on pension reform was tabled. It was the title of all the newspapers, it was the content of all the interviews of the members of this commission that referred to the need to extend the legal age of the pension. This is one of the elements of pension reform, of course not the only one. I am also thinking of career adjustment, transitional periods and, of course, partial pension – a concept that seems particularly interesting to me at the end of my career. There is therefore a whole series of measures which must be decided in the framework of social consultation. Mr Daerden, you spoke of the contempt of social consultation, but I remember a pension reform three or four years ago for which there was no pension reform at all – with a Prime Minister you know. Here, it is expressly foreseen that it will take place. I hope that everyone will have a responsibility to work towards an essential pension reform. If we do not do so, we will bear a very heavy responsibility to the generations that follow us. We must be aware of this, each and every one of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u194	Mr Minister, we discussed this in the same televised debate. There is indeed a need to find a solution for the financing of our pensions, but there are several ways. Unfortunately, you have a selective reading of this report, which contains interesting elements. I am thinking in particular of its conclusion that there is a call for strong alternative and structural financing of our pension system. It is not only possible to place the burden of future pensions on workers, some of whom are exhausted, since their career arrangements are not sufficiently adapted to working conditions and others expect work that does not exist. You took in the report some elements that were of interest to you for ideological reasons and you left aside, for just as ideological reasons, this idea of structural alternative financing of pensions. Therefore, when this topic is included either in your policy note or in a bill, we will ask you what you have implemented in terms of revenue to make this system financially viable, not by smoothing it or reducing the incomes of workers who have reached retirement age, but by creating margins and modernising the labour market to allow for better sharing of working time. On that, we are waiting for your government, but your selective reading is somewhat unbearable.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u195	Mr President, Mr Daerden has quickly slid from the economy to the pensions, so I did not have the opportunity to answer the two or three specific questions addressed to me, in particular by Messrs. Delannois and Delizée. I would like to make a few clarifications, if you will. First of all, answer the picture that has been given of our approach to SMEs and self-employed people. I say this with great respect and friendship: it is quite the opposite of the message, conviction, expression and choices that we have made in this government agreement. Indeed, contrary to the description given in the rostrum, there is a proliferation of measures in favour of the self-employed and SMEs. These measures are in line with the work carried out earlier by the minister in charge of this matter, Sabine Laruelle, and do not constitute any detricacy, even partial, of any of these provisions. When we talk about access to credit, it is because we are well aware of the difficulty for a number of entrepreneurs in accessing credit, the relationship with the banking world. It is because this access to credit is essential that we want the tool, the law, that marks, that frames this access to credit, to be clearly dimensioned, evaluated in the right way in relation to needs. I absolutely want to be reassuring about this first fear expressed. Secondly, I will mention some of the measures in favour of SMEs: - special measures with regard to the first three jobs, the organisation of work, the horeca sector, the calculation of the 50 days of students, many of whom are employed in SMEs, - the substantial budget for the harmonisation of pensions, with the minimum pension for single persons (EUR 100 million), - the calculation and study of the impact of mixed careers on the definition of the minimum pension; - self-employed persons, natural persons, will have access to the second pillar of pension; - a number of provisions will also concern social insurance and this second chance in bankruptcy. - In a difficult budgetary context, EUR 150 million has been made available for the benefit of the independents for a range of cross-cutting measures, measures also linked to speeding up the payment of invoices, rapid resolution of disputes over payment disputes. - The work on administrative simplification, which costs the world of self-employed, SMEs and enterprises a fortune; - the desire to speed up and define more precisely the criteria for exemption from social security contributions which are, sometimes in the life of a company, requested. I think we have more than 30 measures, ladies and gentlemen. The latter are costed and budgeted. They are really at the heart of our political message. It's not a surprise. This is probably the point on which we should have the least political disagreement since we know that our country has more than 980,000 independents, that by using European standards, more than 98 % of enterprises are SMEs and that they account for more than 52 % of private employment. This desire for economic dynamism and job creation necessarily requires mobilisation, which must, moreover, transcend majority and opposition in order to support all those who, not only in their work, but also – as we know – in their very short lives, donate themselves to carry on a project, an activity, creating employment. If you will, I will conclude my speech by reassuring our colleague, Jean-Marc Delizée, even if it is rather a question of the social integration chapter. When we talk about the fact – he was right to point out this point – of harmonising a number of benefits with the European level, it is not to reduce them – I have the figures I want here – but to harmonise them positively. You will also have noted, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that we are integrating the federal intervention to compensate for the potential consequences of socio-economic reforms in the income of integration, the percentage of which is taken over by the federal government. It is, of course, a confirmed measure which I believe is important. If some would like to ask more specific questions on this subject, I am at their disposal either formally in the context of the next chapter or informally.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u196	Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Bacquelaine, our new Minister of Pensions, about a contradiction or a paradox, and get some explanation. How is it that, on the one hand, we are told that we have to work longer because there is a problem with social security, that we no longer have enough money to pay pensions, and that, on the other hand, we are de-financing this social security by giving gifts through further reductions in costs? That's something I don't explain to myself. Then, the PTB released a study on the real impact of pension changes. I'll take the case of the civil servants. Maybe it's a tare, but it happens that I'm from the civil service. For civil servants, this could amount to up to 298 euros less pension per month, especially because of the diplomas that would no longer be taken into account. Unless you consider – which is probably your case – that civil servants are privileged, that they receive too high pensions, do you find it normal for some of them to be taken away almost 300 euros a month when they are pensioners? I know that it is common, in the liberal view, to say that public servants are privileged in the area of pensions. Rather than adapting the public service pension system to the private pension system, I think the opposite should be done. As regards the organisation of pensions, the most logical thing would be to consider the salary over the last few years. It should be remembered, however, that Belgium is one of the countries where private pensions are the lowest. Do we really want to continue to plunge these millions of pensioners into poverty, below the poverty line? That's the question I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u197	I agree with what has just been said.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u198	I think you're merging!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u199	Sometimes I agree. In fact, I said that in my speech. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u200	You agree with the N-VA that has encompassed most people on the far right! It is true that there are expected reductions in pensions. The bonus employment, the valorisation of diplomas, the period taken into account for the reference salary, the index jump, all these measures go in the same direction. People are told not only that they will have to work longer, but also that they will have a lower pension. I'm denouncing him. I would like to ask you a specific question. In recent years, attempts have been made to take into account the difficulty of work at the end of a career, not only in difficult occupations but also in general. For example, the job bonus supported those who made the effort to stay active while they could take their pension. But we have also worked for end-of-career credits to allow us to cling to employment with adjustments in working time. What about it? What philosophy does it inspire you in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u201	Minister, it would be a good thing for you, since you have so much respect for the work done by the Pension Commission, to show today with the Pension Commission itself rather than with an article from the newspaper. I am very surprised to see how selectively the committee report is being put forward by the government. There are three recommendations in the committee report. It does say that we should go to longer careers. It says that longer careers must also provide for higher pensions. It also states that the financing of the pension system must move towards capital financing. You do not mention the latter two elements. You only mention a higher retirement age, while the Pension Commission talks about more career years and not about a higher age. Honestly, I don't understand it so well anymore. Mr Verherstraeten said this afternoon in the chair that people should not worry. If you have reached 45 career years, you can retire. Why don't you pull that line for everyone? Why don't you talk to everyone about 45 career years? Sp.a had proposed 42 career years. Dat is fair. That way, everyone knows how long he has to work. It's different for everyone. On the other hand, the government says two things. If you have worked for 45 years, you can retire. Then why is the retirement age still necessary? If everyone has to work for 45 years, the retirement age will be different for everyone, won't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u202	Mr President, I would like to reply to my colleague from the PTB, with whom Mrs Onkelinx agrees, that there is no paradox between reducing the burden on work and financing pensions. In an ideal system, the greatest number of people participate in and contribute to social protection. However, it sometimes results from high unemployment rates that, in the end, the contribution to social protection is distributed among an increasingly small number of people. It is a solution that gradually asphyxiates the system. In fact, we have provided in the government agreement sources of financing for bank contributions, the exchange transaction tax, and the taxation of trusts abroad. We have a tax shift planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u203	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u204	This is the whole budget. The principle of budgetary totality when we were ministers for 29 years, we must know that this exists! That seems essential to me! The ideal is to have a system where as many people as possible pay contributions, but everyone pays a little less than they do at the moment, and in the end, relatively few people continue to pay a lot. It is a political philosophy: to spread the burden over as many people as possible, ensuring that the employment rate is as high as possible. The second question is the difficulties at the end of the career for work, time credit. I can hear the question. We believe that motivated time credits should be distinguished from unmotivated time credits, simply because we must accept that in motivated time credits, especially to care for a sick parent, to care for children, there is an important social added value. This credit-time, in terms of the assimilated period, must be valued in relation to that which does not consist of bringing real social added value to society.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u205	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u206	Yes, but it's time credit!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u207	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u208	But there will still be part-time credits. We're asking for time credits to be motivated.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u209	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u210	Yes, they are kept at the age of 60 to allow for a gradual end of career! Mrs Kitir, when we talk about the abolition of the diploma bonus, I would like to point out that only the public pension system makes it possible to value years of study for the career condition, in the case of early retirement. This possibility does not exist in the system of employees and self-employed persons. The Pension Reform Commission, and we are following in this way what it is telling us, feels very clearly that the career conditions for early retirement will have to be fulfilled in the public sector pension scheme in the same way as for wage-earners. It is the Vandenbroucke Commission that says that; it is not us. That is the text in the Vandenbroucke report. That's why we decided to delete not at once... (...): Questions must be answered. We mustn't say anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u211	Then repeat the question. I didn't understand it. [[(...):...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u212	I don't know who talked about graduation. Someone talked about that. Anyway, we talked about it, so I'm gonna answer it. We decided to phase out the graduation bonus from 2015 and very gradually, six months a year. It's a gradual removal. But we maintained the graduation bonus for the amount of the pension. To say – someone said that – that removing the diploma bonus would reduce the amount of the pension, that is obviously not correct. I'll tell you again. It was decided for career conditions, that is to say, to determine when someone can take their early pension, to no longer take into account the graduation bonus in the public sector. On the other hand, it was decided to maintain the diploma bonus as part of the pension calculation. Thus, in other words, years of study will continue to be taken into account when calculating the pension amount. There is no reduction in pension. The National Pensions Committee is also asked to examine the possibility of establishing, in the long term, as for employees and self-employed persons, the regularisation of periods of study by means of a personal contribution. It is, of course, quite different to claim that pension amounts will be reduced sharply by removing the inclusion of years of study.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u213	Mr President, I wanted to ask Mr Borsus two additional questions on SMEs. I understand this deep will and energy displayed by this government to meet the needs of the self-employed, SMEs and value them, and you know the interest of environmentalists in supporting the self-employed and SMEs. If you don't know, read our programs and analyze our bills that have been tabled for years; you will notice that Ms.Laruelle has sometimes been inspired by our work and that I had an excellent relationship with her. However, I would have liked you to explain to me two measures of this government. In our view, they are detrimental to SMEs. The first step is to ask the employer to pay the worker for the first two months of his illness. If it employs 1,000 workers, it may be able to operate without replacing the absentee; an SME employing only a few workers would find it difficult to replace the absentee. I do not understand that a government concerned with the defence of SMEs, as you describe, accepts this measure. The second point concerns the construction sector. It is a job-creating sector in which many SMEs find it difficult to live in the face of large companies, some of which abuse the movement of workers. However, you have decided to give access to the VAT rate reduction only for houses dating from 10 years instead of 5 years as at present. Thus, you directly affect the interests of SMEs. I would therefore like you to explain to me the basis of these two measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u214	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, you will allow me a few moments in the gallery, or you will not be able to talk about your back, which is hardly courteous. I think you are a thousand times right: these two measures deserve an explanation. I'm sorry, that's not a very new explanation for the first one, because you had the opportunity to hear the presentation, especially during the Prime Minister's speech a few hours ago. If you ask me as minister in charge of the self-employed, SMEs and the middle classes, and if you ask me, first of all, whether I am happy with this aspect of the measure, this part of the agreement, very sincerely, I must note with you that this measure has a budgetary purpose; as everyone has heard, it does raise many questions and reactions in the business world. We owe it to the truth to say, at this point, two or three things. First, your attitude is legitimate. I've been in the opposition for a long time. If I were you, I would probably have had exactly the same expression. You put your finger on the side of the negative basket, ignoring the other side of the balance, which is extremely positive. What are we talking about roughly according to our numerical estimates? As far as the measure concerning the extension of the two-month pay period for employees and workers is concerned, you know that we had a legal obligation to align. But it is true that alignment is on the rise (plus a month for employees and more than a month and a half for workers). It is a measure whose budgetary performance is estimated at around €370 million at this stage. That's what you're highlighting. On the other hand, measures in favour of the business world, the self-employed and SMEs represent more than 3 billion! You have also noted that, in the Prime Minister's intervention, this measure was announced from 2016 onwards and will be mainly subject to broad, real and deep consultation – like all consultations – with the sectors concerned. Each of the elements of this information given by the Prime Minister must receive attention. The second measure you are referring to is that relating to VAT. You will allow me a little detour since, during the negotiations with the negotiating team under the leadership of the two co-formers, you have read like me, you have heard like me a whole series of elements, assumptions, test balloons, rumors sometimes, which were commented on or described in the media, especially with regard to VAT. General increase in VAT, massive adaptation of a number of VAT sliders: it is now known that this is not the case at all. Today, we know that what is hard hit are elements related to cosmetic surgery and e-commerce. So we're a long way from what we said. I draw your attention to two things. In concrete terms, where do we come from? Members of Parliament who have been sitting longer than I do in this House know that we have come from a scheme in which VAT on renovation has actually been reduced and maintained at the reduced rate for buildings over five years of age to date. The government provision extends this period to ten years. It is therefore in a scheme where people who will be renovating their five- to ten-year-old building will now be subject to a VAT rate which is no longer the reduced rate. What does it represent as a segment? You will agree with me that the substantial and in-depth renovation of a new building after six, seven and eight years is still not the most obvious generality. We have taken a step, and we will evaluate it with the Minister of Finance, who is delayed in time. This 10-year extension measure will not apply immediately. We therefore expect, and we will speak very frankly about this with the construction sector, on a positive air call in the interval of time. It is an extremely important sector in our gross domestic product and we know that it is suffering today. He suffers because of different factors and criteria. The weight of social charges and social dumping are the subject of a very important chapter. Social dumping is one of the major elements that construction companies are talking about. We must work together, also at European level. You know that this issue has a partly European dimension. We hear all these messages from the construction sector. As far as this measure in particular is concerned, we do intend to make a positive appeal because, through the media and through this Parliament, everyone will know that if he does not carry out the work he intended to carry out in his short-term residential building and that he is in the five to ten years, he will move to an unreduced VAT rate that you mentioned. We are counting on this positive air call in the short term. In the light of the President, I promise you that we will, together with you, take stock of the two measures you have mentioned, in consultation with the sector. The aim is for us to be involved in economic progress with this sector, even within a difficult budgetary framework. It is true that the Ecolo programme, which I have read, contains a number of proposals and measures for SMEs. I believe that political work also involves absorbing and integrating measures, wherever they come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u215	Mr President, I must say that transparency and a clear and direct speech allow us, with regard to two measures whose objectives we absolutely do not share, to have information. If it had been done earlier, it would have allowed us to have a much faster debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u216	Mr Bacquelaine's Pension Minister, I listened very carefully to your reply. However, you seem to have misunderstood my question. So I'll repeat them. You quoted the pension committee in your reply. As you know, when it comes to retirement age or pensions, quotes from the pension committee are given throughout the government agreement. However, if you have read the report correctly, you have noticed that the first page states that, according to the Pension Committee, it is about a balanced compromise. I do not need to explain to you what a compromise means. After all, the new government has been together for a long time in recent weeks, in order to find a compromise in order to be able to form the government. So you know very well what a compromise means. I repeat, therefore, that it would be a credit to you if, when you quote the pension committee, you quote the full compromise. There are three points in the report of the Pension Committee. First of all, it doesn't say that the age should be raised. It says that career years need to go up. Secondly, any longer career years should provide a better pension. Thirdly, to finance the game, the finances should be taken out of assets. You are only talking about age, which is not in the report. You state that the government will bring the retirement age to 67 years. Mr Verherstraeten explained today that a person who has a career of 45 years is entitled to retire. He or she will have the choice of retiring. Then why does the government choose to plan a retirement age of 67 years? Why doesn't the government choose to allow everyone to complete a career of 45 years? Once a 45-year career has been achieved, the person concerned may then retire. Why do you still need the retirement age? I don't get it. Either you go for 45 career years or you go for the retirement age. Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u217	Mistress Kitir, I don't want to speak in place of the minister. Nevertheless, I have understood your question and I would like to answer them. The retirement age remains important, because there has to be a reference point. There are people who don't work for 45 years. There are people who even work for a few years. At some point someone should be able to knock and determine when he or she will retire early. It is not only the years worked that can be taken, which are an important factor. There must also be a reference point to knock off. That is the main reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u218	Mrs Kitir, I would like to ask you what you would do with people who, at the time they are 50 years old, have worked for perhaps ten years. They will then have to continue working if no retirement age has been laid down which, although there is no career of 45 years, can be discontinued. I repeat. Anyone who starts working at 22 years and wants to build a full career of 45 years will be 67 before he retires. A person who started his career at 16 or even 18 can still retire at 60 and does not have to continue to work until 67. I think it is always misrepresented, as if someone who started working at 16 could not retire until he is 67 years old. That is not correct, although I hear it said here on a regular basis. Nor is it correct what Professor De Witte.... has been quoted here regularly, without his name being mentioned.... tells about the years of study, which no longer count for officials and such things. Wrong information is also being disseminated on this issue. Diplomacy no longer counts for the early retirement, but for the calculation of the pension those years still count. I do not find anywhere in the report that the officials with 20-year careers are counted, even though this is often claimed and thrown into the media. I am not saying that you specifically mentioned this, Mrs Kitir, but I am saying that this information is wrong and yet it is regularly disseminated, just as the famous age of 67 years is wrongly generalised. It should be clear to everyone that someone who started working at 16 doesn't have to work until he's 67. I believe that we all have a duty to clarify this and to remove any ambiguity about it. That's all I wanted to report.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u219	For those who enter late or have an incomplete career, it is logical that a certain maximum age should be used. The combination of career years and a maximum age is a good combination. That was also the case in our programme, but with 65 as maximum age and 42 years. Our ambition was to respect our electoral programme in the area of pensions and not to make a 180-degree turn after the elections, as the three government parties have done. Pensions will often lead to debate in the coming years. For openness and honesty, I agree with Mr Kitir that the government's campaign on the retirement committee should stop. It is not the case that working until 67 is a formal recommendation of the Pension Committee. That's not true. Stop it. You just made a plea for honesty and clarity in the pension debate. You still want to work with the Pension Commission, I read in the coalition agreement. Then stop using the pension committee to sell your measures on the statutory retirement age. She didn't suggest that. That was a coalition choice. That's a legitimate choice, but it's not our choice. Stop abusing the pension board, that's not neat.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u220	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for SMEs, the Economy and Agriculture a question. I would like to ask the government about something that I think is very important. I know it's covered in another chapter, but it certainly has an impact on the economy. I would like to know whether the government has objectively quantified the GDP gains that the Transatlantic Treaty will bring. According to a British study – this has been entrusted to an office – it is in the order of 0.5% on the economy by 2027 for all European countries. Obviously, if it's 0.5%, it's more and less. I would therefore like to know whether you have undertaken a similar approach and what, in terms of gains, this Treaty can do. Is the Office of the Plan not the appropriate body for the possible completion of this costing? I would also like to know, since there are also points on agriculture which are undeniably of great concern, whether the Minister for Agriculture has taken the full measure of this treaty and entered into negotiations even though the mandate has now been publicly revealed. I would like to know whether there is an important awareness at this level. Because, in another part of the government agreement that concerns the Economy and Agriculture, I see that the government is falling back into this agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, we are getting mixed up here. We were talking about pensions, and then you suddenly show up with the SMEs. I propose that we talk about pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u222	Mrs Kitir, your question concerns the length of the career. The duration of the career is important. In this respect, you will see that the reference career was maintained at 45 years. The career period is indeed 45 years. However, in the committee that we are talking about a lot, there was a hypothesis that it might be necessary to extend the career to 46 or 47 years. We didn't take that option. Why? Because if you take this option, you lower the amount of the pension. By keeping 45 years of career, the amount of the pension is not reduced. That's the difference. That is why we have chosen this option. (...): What about funding?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u223	I have already answered that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u224	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Mrs Becq and other colleagues have also tried to provide a clearer answer. Minister, a retirement age is needed as a reference point for calculating the pension, but nowhere in the government agreement is how high it should be. You might as well have kept the retirement age at 65 instead of raising it to 67. We would create confusion by saying that people will have to work for up to 67 years, as I read in the coalition agreement. If it isn't, why is it in the coalition agreement? Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again that it is not everyone's choice to stop working earlier. Are you serious about people asking to be fired at a certain age in order not to have to work anymore? You should take other measures to keep people working longer, rather than simply raising the retirement age, which will ultimately have no effect other than reducing people's purchasing power.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u225	We see the difference in vision. The debate on pensions is closed. For Mr Borsus, Minister for SMEs, Self-employed, Agriculture and Social Integration, there is another question from Mrs Matz.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u226	Mrs Matz, thank you for your question, but I am not in charge of representing our government in this negotiation. You do me a lot of honor, but you don't. Then you ask me if I am well aware of the agricultural consequences. Yes. I will confide in you; we can afford to do so at this late hour. It was a farm at my parents' house. You can ask me at length about the price of milk or wheat. I was already Monday at the Agri Council in Luxembourg. So I am well aware of the impact of the international dimension of the treaties, but also of the other aspects - embargo, geopolitical and other commercial considerations - on the price of the materials we sell and, consequently, on the profitability of our farms. As soon as we have finished our parliamentary debate, I intend to provoke a meeting with my counterparts in charge of regional matters very quickly. As you know, given this element, but especially given several parameters related to the international situation, some agricultural sectors are experiencing a real crisis in terms of profitability. Despite the partial measures taken by Europe, we are faced with a fall in prices and price forecasts in the fruit and partly in the vegetable sector, but also in pig farming and milk, which will lead us to a litre of milk at twenty-five centimes from next January. It's below the threshold of profitability. I think your question calls for a reaction, but you yourself have pointed out that part of that competence is exercised by regional entities. For the rest, it is negotiation, but it is not my responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u227	Mr President, I must tell you that I was surprised by Mrs Matz's question, not so much because it did not concern the subject on which we are debating, but do I have to understand, Mrs Matz, that you are in favour of this transatlantic treaty? I have to tell you that before you came here to the house, you were in the Senate. We have asked the Foreign Minister on a regular basis about the nature of these negotiations, which are taking place in secret, and we consider this TTIP to be a threat to our social model, to the European agricultural model and also to the ability of states and Europe to adopt legislation on these matters in order to defend our fellow citizens. So this is a debate that may have to be resumed in the Foreign Affairs section or at some other time, but at least I have the impression that you are playing with your questions to the apprentice witches.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u228	Mr.Chair, I would like to respond to Mr.Gilkinet because he is either not listening to what I have said or he is not keeping abreast of the work that has been done in the Senate. We have also at the level of the CDH, regularly questioned the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I did not ask the question of the mandate. I asked if we had quantified here in Europe, Belgium, the rate, and what it could lead to on GDP. That is what I asked as a question, in the sense that it is said that it is 0.5%; it is the British who have calculated this for the whole of Europe by 2027. The question was, but I obviously did not make myself clear: are the 0.5 % of the whole of Europe by 2027 worth trying to undermine an entire agricultural, cultural system, etc.- Is that what you're saying? This was the subject of my question and I ask that the exercise be carried out here in Belgium by the Planning Office so that the positive effects, if any, on the economy can be quantified.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u229	Mrs Matz, you should have clarified your intentions from the start. In any case, for my part, if we are opposed to the principle of TTIP, I think there are other subjects of study to be proposed to the Plan Bureau. There you go. We will be leading this debate at another time and in other places, but at least it is important for our State to take a very clear position on this issue and to call for an interruption of these negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u230	The first two chapters have been dealt with and we shall now proceed to the third chapter, in particular finance, taxation and the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u231	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak to you on behalf of the PS Group on finance, taxation and, incidentally, on the budget, even though Mrs Onkelinx has already mentioned this at length. In the end, the chapter on finance illustrates fairly well the basic orientations of the government agreement. We will not go back to the election campaign, the tax shock, the difficulties of budgetary evaluation; consider that all this is already a little part of history. The news is the government agreement. At the same time, however, it must be noted that this government agreement does not include the major tax reform announced to us in the head of certain political parties, which was based in particular on a profound reform of the scale of personal taxes and on a massive increase in the exempted quota up to – to make it simple – 13,000 euros. Of course we can't find that! What was characteristic of the political debate was that, in almost all programmes, there was the idea of a shift tax, a shift from taxation of labour income to other bases. For some, they were consumption bases; for others, they were rather the income of capital. For us, of course, it was to reduce taxes on labour income in a targeted way and at the same time to promote more tax justice by soliciting, taxing more precisely, the income of capital and the income derived from speculation. The idea was therefore to pursue a twofold objective, with the promise of two virtues: more tax justice and support for recovery by strengthening the disposable income of households. This option is not found in your government agreement; it is obvious. But with regard to what you were considering, on the part of the parties of the majority, there is still not much to be found either! Nothing or almost nothing! If it is not – and it is worth it – the idea of an increase in flat-rate charges, with, according to the Prime Minister, 250 euros on average for taxpayers, employees, civil servants, those who can benefit from flat-rate charges. But let's focus a little on the lump-sum charges. Indeed, there is an ambiguity that must be lifted. There seems to be a perception that lump sum fees are so qualified because it is the same amount for everyone. In fact – as you know, Minister of Finance – if these fees are lump-sum, it is because taxpayers are not allowed to bring the supporting documents. That's why they're flat. They are not lump-sum as to how they are calculated. The latter is subject to a capped scale. However, the higher the income, the greater the amount of deductible fees. It is, of course, capped at EUR 4 000. To reach this deductible cost limit, you must have a taxable income of 64,600 euros. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that these are taxable income and not gross income. The difference is in personal social contributions and other deductible expenses. This means that it is important to know whether the measure you intend to take is a measure that you think you are targeting on low and medium incomes or whether you intend to allocate it to all taxpayers, regardless of their level of income. It goes without saying that if you choose the second measure, you will allocate a greater tax benefit to taxpayers who have a high income than to taxpayers who have a low or medium income. That calls for two questions. First, is it right to do so in difficult budgetary times? Secondly, is it economically effective? Aren't you simply going to raise some people's savings rate? I would also like to ask you about the clarification of the budget allocation for this measure. I am looking at this point, Mr President, because it is ultimately the central element of tax policy that you intend to develop with regard to the taxation of natural persons. However, if I take the figures that have been put forward, this is about an advantage of 250 euros on average per worker. I can't help but think that these 250 euros represent almost half of what you'll take away from them through the index jump. In other words, for one euro you give, you withdraw two. I hope that you will also clarify this matter. You'll probably ask me where I came from. I do not hide from you that these are our assessments, but that I see confirmed in the press which is a little concerned with the subject, but also by the most important representative organisation of workers, close to some members of the majority. At the same time, you don't stop there! You are not content to reduce the lump-sum costs already absorbed by the index jump. No, you're also going to increase the excise duty on diesel. In this respect, it is also important that one can – the exercise is not so difficult – see in concrete terms what this means for example for a worker who travels 30,000 kilometres a year and who fills up a week. Now, I'm careful, I didn't get involved in estimates. I heard a wise journalist said it would cost 500 euros a year. Is that right? Is that less? Is that more? I don't know! If he is right – I do not see that he was contradicted – it is 500 euros again that we will look for people who use their vehicle to travel, go to work, drive children to school, in short, it is a tax that weighs on households. Another point to be noted in the government agreement is the increase in VAT on renovation. I'm not going back to the measure. I would just like to draw your attention to a few figures. Let us be concrete! These figures, I draw them from the KBC, from Essentia, from the sector. They say that when a household does renovations within five years and finances this on its own funds, it usually incurs 12,700 euros. This means that your measure would weigh on this household, usually young people, an additional €1,900. It would also be interesting to clarify. And let me not be told that it does not cover a reality! Indeed, the examination of the tax statistics of this tax expenditure tells us that it is an envelope of one and a half billion that, of course, you are not going to look for completely. However, I would like to know how much you're going to look for. You'll find that I'm in the right place. I am asking more questions than I am asking any observations that would be oriented. With regard to the freezing of tax reductions, in the government agreement, you say that this measure will not cover the income of the activity. Okay, but what about the replacement income? Tell us what's going on. Will you freeze the indexation of tax reductions on pensions and sickness and disability benefits? That seems important to me. As far as the fight against tax fraud is concerned, I am struck by the indigence of the small section devoted to it. Does that mean that this is no longer a priority? Above all, you are considering reviewing the anti-abuse provision. You know that there is, on the one hand, tax fraud, on the other, the choice of the least imposed route and between the two an important grey area of sophisticated and complex installations. What are you going to do? To challenge this provision, which made it possible to counter this aggressive tax engineering? Here too, we wish to have clarifications. I see I don't have time anymore. I hope that I will come back to that in the debate that is now going to take place. I would just like to say that I do not see in this government agreement the promotion of things as fundamental as tax justice or a tax policy in the service of an economic policy that relies on workers' disposable income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u232	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I am pleased that the previous period of government has ended with regard to the lack of respect for the Prime Minister. The members of this assembly during the previous legislature will remember that the N-VA Group refused to name the Prime Minister for three years. Just now, you were bothering me because you felt personally attacked. In any event, I have heard here today from all the group chairmen the respect for the Prime Minister's position. This contrasts sharply with the lack of respect expressed by the N-VA Group to the Prime Minister in the course of the previous reign. As far as taxation is concerned, Minister of Finance, I would like to go through a number of things with you to make sure that my reading of the government agreement is correct. I have looked at the electoral programmes of the various parties, and in all these programmes, including those of the sp.a, two elements were central to taxation, namely less burdens on companies and less taxes on the working people. I'll start with that last element. During this election campaign what a novelty there was, in the sense that the electoral programmes were vetted. Account 14 was the scientific test of the electoral program "Leuven" carried out by the Catholic University of Leuven. I went there to get the figures of what the three Flemish majority parties planned as a tax reduction for the working people. According to the N-VA, this was EUR 3.55 billion, according to CD&V EUR 4.22 billion, and according to the Open Vld (Open Vld) EUR 5.85 billion was already no longer available. I would stress that the vetted programmes were well calculated and that they were sure to be realized. One might think that the majority would agree with those who offer the least, in particular the N-VA with EUR 3.55 billion. Mr Minister of Finance, I read in the coalition agreement on tax reductions, and it has been mentioned a few times today, only one measure, in particular the increase in the flat-rate professional costs, for an amount of EUR 900 million. That amount is in stark contrast to what the Flemish majority parties have promised their voters. If the figures I quoted are correct, then I think we can agree on the conclusion that the voters are simply very seriously deceived by the three Flemish majority parties. I would like to go on with that. EUR 900 million of tax relief is the major measure for the people working. The question is whether there are tax increases, because I also hear the Open Vld, after the agreement was concluded, but also the N-VA, very loudly shout that there are a number of tax increases in the government agreement, but that they are tax increases that do not affect working people, such as the banking tax, the stock exchange tax, the tax on intercommunals and the cayman tax. They're not there for the working people. However, if I continue to read, I see three examples which do mean a tax increase for the working people. Firstly, the limitation of automatic indexation of certain fiscal expenditure. Let me mention two in the list: pension savings and long-term savings. The tax cuts for this are primarily directed at people who work. Well, that's simply a tax increase, isn't it? It is about a EUR 193 million increase in taxes for the hardworking Fleming, about taking up that liberal concept for a while. Secondly, the lower VAT rate of 6% for the renovation of housing, which is currently applicable to homes from five years of age, is limited and will in future only apply to homes over ten years of age. For the renovation of homes there is simply a tax increase for people who work and want to renovate their home. I understand that there is EUR 95 million on the other hand. That's extra revenue for this government. Thirdly, the annual indexing of excise duties on coffee, wine, spirits, diesel and tobacco, all products that a typical family uses every day or every week. If I have counted correctly, it is a tax increase of EUR 679 million. If I add that up, 193 million, 95 million and 679 million, then I will only get those three items to a total of EUR 967 million in tax increases. That is more than the tax relief we have been talking about all day. The tax reduction which is so bragging about is thus completely offset by the tax increases for the working people, and I am not yet talking about the other debt instruments that are included in the coalition agreement. Then I come to the reduction in the burden on the companies. A great deal has been said about this today. I am not going to go into it very deeply, but I heard Mr Van Rompuy earlier say that the index jump is important because a trend break is needed. I agree that a trend break is needed. The trend break that is needed is to choose this time to also pay the income from capital for the tax reduction for the companies and the tax reduction for the working people. This majority likes to refer to what is being done better abroad. I have just looked up the OECD figures on capital gains taxes. Of the 34 OECD countries, Belgium is at the 31st place in terms of dividends, the 21st place in terms of interest rates and the last place in terms of share added value. So you missed an opportunity here to achieve a fair trend break. One last point I would like to mention is that yesterday in the government statement there was also mention of a tax reform that would come about. I didn't see it. Nor do I see in the figures what this tax reform should cost or bring about. Is it fiscal and budgetary neutral? I would also like some clarification from you on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u233	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, this is our first contact, welcome among us! Our colleague Calvo has advised you some interesting readings. We will not resume the debate on Paul De Grauwe, but I would like to advise you on further readings. You have certainly kept yourself informed of the current situation in this Parliament: it has produced some interesting reports which should inspire you, but which I cannot find inspiration in the framework of the government agreement. In 2007, our parliament worked on tax evasion. A committee of inquiry has been set up and it has reached conclusions shared fairly unanimously by parliamentarians, with specific recommendations to combat tax evasion. I will come back to that, but I encourage you to read this report: both it sets out an inventory of tax fraud and suggests clear lines of work to ensure that the money from the tax, and hence the money owed, goes into the state's coffers and allows for the most progressive and useful policies possible. It is a second report which I invite you to read: the various conclusions on the banking and financial crisis. Like other states, our Parliament has worked on a general report and on a specific report. This is a case study. This was the Dexia Commission, whose conclusions are somewhat weak. You will also read the amendment tabled by environmentalists, an alternative conclusion that has not been supported by parliamentarians. However, I would like to point out to the government that the financial crisis is not so far behind us; our responsibility as legislator and regulator is to prevent a new crisis from occurring. Here, again, when reading the government statement, this government's intentions remain rather vague on the subject, despite something that I will note positively in a few seconds. Mr. New Minister of Finance, welcome and good readings. I will point out four elements of the government agreement, which I have begun somewhat, in the field of finance in general. The first concerns the fight against fraud. The government agreement has a lot to do with social fraud. No doubt, when one is insured as a social security beneficiary, one is suspected of being a fraudster. So privacy issues don't matter; when you're a taxpayer, it's just the opposite. I'm surprised! I am also surprised to see in your budget tables that you are considering equivalent revenues as a result of the fight against social fraud and as a result of the fight against tax fraud. I would like to remind you of a study, which you can read, of the ULB, which estimates the cost of tax evasion at EUR 20 billion annually. It seems to me, when we are a wise manager, when we have budgetary difficulties, as is the case with our state, as with other states in Europe, that this must be a priority and that we must have sufficient resources. I would also like to address the Secretary of State responsible for issues as diverse as the fight against poverty, the fight against tax fraud and scientific policy. You have been given interesting but so diverse portfolios that I wonder if the fight against tax evasion will be a priority. Secondly, positive, in connection with the follow-up to the banking and financial crisis, I have read with your intentions that you wish to have a more active management, accompaniment of the directors who represent the Belgian State in the banks. On a regular basis, we asked the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister about BNP Paribas, a French bank of which we are the first shareholder and which does not always have positive attitudes in terms of supporting the economy, in terms of tax evasion. I will closely monitor your intentions in this regard. On the other hand, I have read to you, Mr Minister of Finance, about the future of the Belfius bank, which is a 100 % public bank, in any case as regards its capital, its ownership by the Belgian State and by all citizens. I read with some astonishment your statements about a desire to resell Belfius. I think when you have to sell something, whether it's a house or a car, the more you're in a hurry to do it, the harder it's to get a good price. Strategically, if your intention is to resell, declaring it on the public square may not be the smartest thing to do. But some of your colleagues have made statements with greater consequences than yours. I would like to ask the government about its intentions with regard to Belfius. Perhaps it is a chance to have today a bank with 100 % public capital, whose wage policy can be influenced, in terms of support for the economy, which can be a market player but which works differently and which influences the market to show that a bank can operate differently. What is the government's exact intention? Is there anything that is not written in the texts that have been provided to us that concerns a resale of the Belfius public bank? When we read the budget tables and see the Belgian state's dividends rise from EUR 150 million to EUR 50 million, is this the result of an intention to resell? The third element that we cannot pass by is the tax question, the announcement, with great publicity, which was very much present in the pre-election debates, of one or two tax reforms. Clearly, if Mr. Michel has said that your agreements are very precise, they are rather muddy in this matter. Everything remains to be done. Is the government's intention indeed to introduce a tax shift, i.e. a transfer of taxation from labour to capital income, so as to promote employment while ensuring adequate funding for social security? Not as you do, by linearly removing €5 billion from social security, which will lead more and more families to poverty. Is it in the government's intentions to aggregate income, to consider that income from capital must be taxed in the same way as income from labour, and thus to broaden the taxable base? A more progressive tax rate should be allowed to promote employment. What are you going to do about capital gains taxation? I didn't read anything, I'm surprised! If you do nothing, Belgium would remain one of the only countries in Europe that does not consider that capital gains on shares, so selling something that we bought a little earlier to a much higher sum, should not be the subject of a levy, even minimal. Since these are sometimes very large sums, they could be useful for the financing of the State. I'm talking pretty fast and I'm sorry. We will have the opportunity to explain ourselves in greater depth. As far as corporate tax is concerned, we are particularly surprised to see nothing about a reform of notional interests. The cost of notional interest in terms of lower revenue for the Belgian State is EUR 5 billion annually. All the studies show that they do not mainly benefit the real economy, local players such as SMEs, but rather multinational structures which are not afraid to disinvest in Belgium and to destroy employment. There is no intention of making access to notional interests conditional on the creation or maintenance of employment, and of reorienting them more towards SMEs. I'm surprised. This may be beyond your government agreement. A fourth element is very important to me and it is not in your agreement either, except in the area of pensions – but we have not discussed it with Mr Bacquelaine – and the government's intention is to give priority to the second and third pillars, i.e. private pensions, which are less egalitarian and less effective and which also pose a problem in terms of the financialization of the economy. Indeed, the holders of this money and the managers of pension funds sometimes play a negative role with respect to it. It seems to us that, in terms of regulating the savings of citizens, these hundreds of billions of euros of money of workers placed in pension savings could be directed towards greater financing of our economy in order to create employment. It's a field to explore. In conclusion, we expect the Minister of Finance to intend to move the financial sector forward, to actively manage the Belgian state's participation in the banking sector – which was not the case of your predecessors – and to intend to change the tax system so that it is fairer and more effective than it is today. Unfortunately, these intentions are not included in the government agreement, but you have a second chance, thanks to the debates and answers that you will bring to us and in the further performance of your role as minister for which I wish you well.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u234	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether it is late night, but the temperature in this House is falling. That would almost make us want to get closer to each other. Without going to this end, I would simply like to send a message of congratulations to the members of the government who have undoubtedly experienced an important moment in their personal journey during their swearing-in. I'm sure it's a moment full of emotion. I would have liked to tell you that your happiness is good to see, but I have the feeling that it will have been of short duration. Indeed, as soon as we took the oath, we realized that the worm was in the fruit and that, no doubt, this legislature would be more like a way of the cross, which is still at its beginning. Nevertheless, I wish you every satisfaction you can expect. On the subject of finance and taxation, I would like to speak with nostalgia about the electoral debates that brought us together, Georges Gilkinet, David Clarinval, Jean-Marc Delizée and I, in Namurois. We all agreed that the tax system as it works in our state has reached the end of its scenario. It is an unjust, ineffective, unreadable system. In short, we all agreed on the need to reform it. The MR was not the least ardent of the announced reformers. Indeed, it announced a tax reform that was to cost public finances on a voluntary basis. It was the only party to submit a reform that was not fiscally neutral; 10, 15, 20 billion were announced to be allocated to this tax reform. I understand that no representative of the MR Group has spoken in this thematic debate. We are far from the ambitions announced during the election campaign. However, the parliamentary committee responsible for tax reform had produced interesting results. In addition, last August the Higher Council of Finance published a rich report. At the end of the race, however, one has the impression that the break in this matter consisted essentially of putting the socialists in opposition. It's my faith a break-up like another! But in the area of taxation, there is little other significant change. As far as the tax on natural persons is concerned, there is nothing about the increase in the tax-exempt quota announced by the MR, nothing about the modification of the tax brackets, just this increase in the flat-rate deduction of professional expenses. Mr Laaouej rightly explained that what was given with one hand would not compensate for everything else that would be taken up. For my part, I would like to point out that this is obviously not a tax reform. I would like to point out that this is an option which, by definition, concerns only those who do not report the actual costs. This measure will therefore not benefit the vast majority of the self-employed who declare their actual costs. As far as corporate tax is concerned, great disappointment. No drop in the nominal rate, however, announced by the MR. No reduction in the specific rate on SMEs, no major measure. It must be said that you have given up changing notional interests. This obviously deprives you of any room for manoeuvre to imagine anything. These notional interests, of which a CEPR study revealed that they benefited Walloon companies only up to 10%. However, there was room for reflection to try to reinvigorate – as Mr Borsus said he wanted to do – the fabric of SMEs in the south of the country. Obviously, it will not be under this legislative term, probably because you have considered it an institutional reform. The only eventual amendment to corporate tax affects the taxation of intercommunals. We'll certainly have a chance to talk about it again. As far as I am concerned, I would like to ask you whether you are afraid that this impact will affect local authorities and local authorities, the citizens themselves. In the same vein, for the attention of the Minister of Budget, I would like to ask whether he confirms the information I thought I saw in the press announcing a freeze on any indexing of federal allocations to police areas. Is that the case? If that were the case, there might be cause for concern about the impact of the decisions taken here at the federal level on local authorities. As far as the taxation of capital is concerned, I will not say much because there is not much in the declaration and in the government agreement. I note that the government is committed to continuing the implementation of the financial transaction tax. I would like to hear from the Minister of Finance on this point. I would be happy if he would confirm that, since if I am not mistaken, his party belongs to a group in the European Parliament that has consistently resisted, opposed and opposed this taxation. The British Conservatives with whom you are associated have imposed a veto which has forced us to use the method of enhanced cooperation to try to achieve the implementation of this taxation, so I will be happy to hear you. With regard to VAT, Mr Borsus, with a consummated sense of dialectics, tried to convince us that the measure which will impact the reduced rate on renovation works, which is certainly a negative measure for the construction sector, could nevertheless create a positive call for air. There will be an opportunity to have a debate as the minister has announced figures or an evaluation, and I look forward to taking part. With regard to the other amendments, Mr Borsus referred to the reduced rate which will now be abolished on cosmetic surgery, but he will agree with me that this is finally a cosmetic measure. It is also the result of a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, so there is not much voluntarism behind it. Similarly, with regard to the taxation of e-commerce, this is the transposition of a European directive which Belgium should in any case undertake to apply. One word about environmental taxation to regret this increase in diesel excise duties since it will inevitably penalise commuters. I think that those who benefit from company cars will have little impact since leasing companies have already begun to renew their fleet of vehicles. On the other hand, for workers who pay for their own cars, who pay for their fuel, this will undoubtedly be a negative measure and will certainly not be compensated by the mobility measures which will be taken with regard to SNCB in particular. I would like to say a word about tax evasion to see that the government policy statement is full of allusions to the need to respect the taxpayer. I can agree with that, but does that mean that the fight against tax fraud will be seen as a lower priority? On this point, the CDH will be extremely vigilant. It would be inconceivable to us that, in these times of savings, the fight against fraud is no longer a priority, whereas all studies show that the State does not use all the means necessary to recover the tax owed to it. I would also be happy to have an update on the sale of Belfius. This is not stated in the policy statement, but the Minister of Finance referred to the sale of this bank. We know she's still recovering. She went through European stress tests with difficulty. Is it really a good idea to put on the table officially the prospect of selling this establishment? I'd be happy to hear you on this. I would also be happy to hear from you about the mechanism that the government will put in place to compensate ARCO's co-operators. We know it was a topic of discussion within the new majority. What is the device you could put in place? What was the agreement that finally came about? Are you able to dispel the uncertainty of hundreds of thousands of savers who have been waiting for compensation for a long time? In conclusion, it seems to me that the agreement you have presented to us does not in any way specify the measures for tax reform. Not much concrete beyond words. Nothing major about involving speculators, fraudsters, polluters. No changes in corporate tax or notional interest. There is nothing very concrete about the fight against tax fraud either. As you will have understood, this aspect of the policy statement seems to us to be extremely disappointing. I hope to change my mind by hearing from the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u235	Mr President, I have two questions for the Minister for Finance and three questions for clarification for the Minister for the Budget. I agree with what Mr Gilkinet said. Your first statements on the future of the financial sector and the involvement of the Belgian State were very clear. The coalition agreement is very brief. Six rules on a possible reform of the financial sector and an evaluation of the Banking Act, one of the 130 times that there is evaluation in the government agreement. Mr Van Overtveldt, how open is that reflection? I think people are still concerned about the future of the financial sector. Getting rid of it with six rules seems very strange to me. Can you explain your attitude in this matter? There is a fiscal pact in the coalition agreement. The potential scope of the fiscal pact is not entirely clear to me. Several colleagues from the opposition have asked questions about corporate taxation, about the status quo regarding the notional interest deduction. The N-VA was also a requesting party to abolish the notional interest deduction and reinvest that fiscal mass at a lower nominal rate of corporation tax. Is that a possibility or is that fiscal pact something else? That's not clear to me. Can corporate tax reform be part of such a fiscal pact? I have three further questions for the Minister for the Budget. I think that tomorrow we will have a chance in the replies to the debate on the budget table. Where are the savings announced by SNCB in the budget table? That is not clear on the basis of the titulature in the table. I also note that in 2015 only EUR 80 million of additional capital tax is included in the budget table. The viewing fee comes later. There is only the stock market fee in 2015 that will stop after that. What also strikes me in Mr Laaouej's excellent speech are the figures relating to social fraud and tax fraud. Mr Tommelein and Mrs Sleurs are here. Mr Tommelein has been instructed to raise EUR 250 million in the coming years in relation to social fraud. Mrs Sleurs, responsible for tax fraud, for the major fraud in absolute amounts, has the same task. I don't understand. I believe that social fraud should be dealt with as well as tax fraud. However, I do not understand why the government is putting forward a cumulative result of 250 million for tax fraud under Mrs Sleurs and 250 million for social fraud under Mr Tommelein for 2018. I don't understand. Tax fraud represents a multitude of social frauds and yet the ambitions for both areas are the same. This is a new proof of the imbalance and injustice in the coalition agreement. How are you looking at that, Mrs. Sleurs and Mr. Tommelein? The figures seem very strange to me and not proportionate. Mr Jamar, an adjustment of nuclear interest rates is announced in the coalition agreement. It is, of course, dependent on nuclear capacity, but it does not appear in the budgetary table. It's not about small amounts. Where's the adjustment hidden? I would like some clarification on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u236	Mr President, Prime Minister, if your government promised us that Belgium would become a tax haven in the years to come, I would have to believe that. This is about a tax haven for the richest. We know that Belgium is already a tax haven for the richest and the multinationals, but a tax hell for the simple workers. Much has been said about the notional interests that the PTB has been fighting for a long time. But most of the parties in this assembly have said that these interests need to be reconsidered. Even the MR, who was, in a way, the breeder of this measure, said that they had to be seen again. This still amounts to EUR 6 billion, namely a famous tile for the budget. What do we see? That no one has touched those interests in any way. As far as capital gains on shares are concerned, the CD&V had quite a change in the latter. Mr Minister of Finance, you may know Albert Frère; indeed, I read that you entered the BBL the year he bought the Groupe Bruxelles Lambert. Do you know how much its companies pay out of 3 billion profits? Less than his concierge, i.e. 152 euros in taxes, thanks to the exemption of capital gains on shares. Belgium is therefore a tax haven for the richest and this is not likely to change in the light of your government program. Not only are these aberrant benefits maintained to the richest, but, moreover, they are given new gifts, not tax gifts, but social gifts, gifts in the form of salary theft through index jumps, through social contributions, form of indirect salary theft. Therefore, according to your policy, everything goes well for the richest and the big multinationals. You say that you are going to give 250 euros to workers through an increase in flat-rate costs in the context of the tax of natural persons. My colleague Laaouej said earlier that this amount was barely half the amount resulting from the index jump. According to the PTB calculation, this represents barely one third of this amount. Why? Because, contrary to what you say, Prime Minister, index jumping has no impact on a year, but on a whole career, until the end of time. Why a third? Because the effect is cumulative. It's a geometric progression. Therefore, considering the effect over 20 years, the effect will be stronger after 20 years than at the beginning of the measure. Moreover, these 250 euros are not given to workers. Who's gonna pay them? It is the workers who will pay them again. How will you finance the measure? The programme says it black on white: by other taxes, by excise duties, by VAT. We're telling the workers, we're stealing from you, but you're going to have a little gift in compensation, but this gift is you're going to pay for it. How? Through taxes that are more unfair than the tax of natural persons, because in the matter of VAT, excises, whatever their income, the concierge of Albert Frère or Albert Frère pay the same rate of VAT. So we're replacing a more or less just tax with a clearly unfair tax. In fact, Didier Reynders went through that, he reduced the progressivity of the tax. And there's this famous transparency tax on tax havens. If there is one thing that is not transparent, it is the way this tax will work. You tell us that you have the list of legal structures that are in tax havens, even though it was already published. We're going to collect a tax on dividends or interest from these structures. It seemed to me that in Belgium interest and dividends were already taxed. So, we're going to tax something that's already taxable, if I understand correctly? You'll have to explain it to me. What worries me too is the attitude towards tax evasion. It was mentioned that the anti-tax fraud component is virtually non-existent. But there is the aspect of the fight against tax fraud, and therefore the encouragement of tax fraud. In this regard, I will quote a series of measures from your programme. Control of tax services: instead of controlling fraudsters, we will control the controllers. The tax will have to become a partner of the fraudsters after the first offence. It will be necessary to review the contributions on the benefits of any kind that would not have been declared; to review all the VAT penalties, i.e. to reduce VAT penalties; to reduce the limitation periods; to review the anti-abuse provision; to review the tax penalties; and finally, to make Brussels a financial centre, following the model of La City, which is known to be a model of tax transparency and the fight against fraud. Belgium is already considered a tax haven. I do not count the number of French journalists who have already contacted me so that I can make them visit Brussels; see also all the major French groups that benefit from the aberrant advantages offered by Belgium. French journalists do not come back: what, then, does Belgium gain from presenting these tax gifts? They don't understand. One day, Prime Minister, I will send you one or the other of these journalists to give you the explanations; personally, I can't do it. Finally, we are not fighting tax fraud, but fighting the fight against tax fraud. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u237	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, despite this late hour, I would like to dwell for a moment on the fate that the government has reserved for the Science Policy PPS and, more generally, for all federal science and culture policy. I do not hide from you that we were surprised by the violence of the announced measures. At the same time, when we observe the fate reserved for the cultural and scientific world by the Flemish government, we should have known that the same parties would not show a more sensible view at the federal level. For it is indeed a dismantling of a whole section of federal politics, or even a small reform of the state that does not say its name that your government is proposing. But do we have to be surprised? Is it not consistent for a government whose first party based its policy on the separation of men, the myth of frozen identities and the opposition between them? Culture and science are those areas that create a link between people, ridicule those who believe in the strength of borders and evolve beyond the frozen and retrograde conceptions of our societies. Thus understood the danger that science and culture represent for the first party of the Michel-De Wever government, the dismantling, the announced partitioning takes all its meaning. By reducing the Science Policy PPS to a simple Directorate-General, while cutting drastically in its means, the government takes an ideological position that runs counter to any logic of good governance.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u238	Indeed, this PPS is now an effective structure, with more than 3,000 employees, which ensures synergies between the policies of the parties that make up it. Is it worth recalling that, in addition to the ten federal scientific institutions responsible for it and providing all its support services, the Science Policy PPS defines and implements research programmes in all areas of federal jurisdiction, ensures inter-federal and international coordination of the research effort, or identifies and analyses research and development indicators with both public and private actors across the country? Prime Minister, before reducing BELSPO to the skin of grief, know that in quantum physics, too compressed matter becomes a degenerate matter. If you don't believe me, a number of federal-funded inter-university projects will be able to confirm that. Unfortunately, your ideological blindness does not stop there, because the dismemberment of the state adds the will to divide and separate federal scientific institutions from each other. Your pseudo-automation and pseudo-rationalization of each institution is an aberration in several ways. First of all, instead of structurally promoting synergies, you isolate institutions. However, as on the plateau d'Uccle for example, collaborations between institutions are essential for their proper functioning. Secondly, you place burdens on them which, on the one hand, will take them away from their core business and which, on the other hand, will be difficult to bear for the smallest structures. Finally, there is a legitimate fear that this will lead to competition from institutions that will discourage joint projects as well as the sharing of human resources and infrastructure. What is driving the Michel-De Wever government to so structurally and financially isolate the establishments from each other, almost like lots that we are about to sell, or even simply to remove? Asking the question is already a bit of an answer. Moreover, with regard to this transfer of powers which does not say its name, the announcement of the creation of an Interfederal Office for Space is amazing in more than one way. First, because such an offer does not meet any need. The current federal service is flexible and responsive to the expectations of its users. It holds its credibility in the neutrality of its action. Incorporating the Regions, beyond the additional budget cost, could only complicate decision-making. In short, it is another unnecessary or even counterproductive measure, yet indispensable in the eyes of this government eager for ideological or even institutional measures. Indeed, you are announcing no more or less than the regionalization of space policy. Let me ask you these questions: how do you reconcile this with, on the one hand, the special law of 8 August 1980 which determines that the Federal Republic is competent for space research within the framework of international or supranational institutions, agreements, acts and, on the other hand, with your declarations not to initiate institutional reform? Prime Minister, do you count on the necessary majority of the Francophone language group to transfer spatial competence to the Regions? This measure simply has no added value. Neither enterprises nor employment nor the effectiveness of State action will benefit! Do I have to remind you that space is a sector where Belgium is at the forefront of the world, creating jobs with high added value and where the return on investment is considerable? Of all this, ladies and gentlemen, we can only conclude one thing. Whether it is science, culture or space policy, the Michel-De Wever government has decided to weaken everything that contradicts the ideology of a government that divides more than it unites, that closes more than it opens, that freezes more than it emancipates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u239	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I have two more questions for you, and you made a strong plea for maintaining sufficient instruments for interuniversity research. The most important element there were the interuniversity attraction poles. It was a majority of which your party was part which transferred these interuniversity attraction poles to the Länder under the sixth state reform, with, of course, a budget cut. If there are insufficient resources, this is partly due to the sixth state reform. Don't worry, Flanders will of course continue to invest in research and development. An additional budget will be available for this. Flanders also reaches out to the Walloon government to cooperate and provide sufficient funding for interuniversity research. Firstly, do you regret the transfer of the interuniversity attraction poles that your party has co-approved? Secondly, will the Walloon Government, to which your party participates, assume its responsibility for additional financing of the interuniversity attraction poles?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u240	I note that the strategy is to ask questions in order not to answer those asked. It's one strategy like another. You will understand that I will not speak on behalf of the Walloon government. I have neither the mandate nor the capacity to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u241	Mr President, I will be brief. I would like to join in the questions that have been asked because, during the campaign, we have seen several researchers moving about the disappearance of the IAPs – the inter-university poles of attraction – whose federal funding allowed to bring together teams from the North and the South in order to occupy a more important place on the international scene. When one hears this claim and discovers the response of this federal government - namely, the disappearance of these poles or the reduction of the research skills of this scientific policy to a grievous skin - one wonders about the world in which a part of this government lives. Indeed, one of the last statements we have heard leaves no doubt as to the intentions of some of its members. With regard to the last question put to Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, it seems to me that it is precisely a lack of knowledge of the added value of these IAPs. Today, the Regions are able to finance their research independently. The asset of IAPs is not so much the funding as the scientific excellence of the joint work of our North and South teams. We have no doubt that both our Communities and our Regions will continue to fund research. But you are undermining a mechanism that allows Belgium to take its place in international scientific excellence. That is why I would like to hear from you about the future of certain other programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers and Secretaries of State, I think that if you question your administrations, you will only be able to see that they have, each at a given time, used the expertise of scientific policy to inform them in their own field of competence. The federal government will lose this expertise. I would therefore like to hear from you, beyond the obvious Community aspect, on the reasons for this development which was not requested by anyone, except by the N-VA who has never hidden from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u242	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to combine the many comments made on finance and taxation into a dozen points, in which I think I can make the most of the comments that have been made. I'll start with the banks. I have indeed pointed out, completely in line with the government agreement, that the privatisation of Belfius can be envisaged and may well be considered in the long term. There is no mention, certainly not in my view, of any haste or time limit. This must be considered in the light of the evolution of the bank, the evolution of the market and the possibilities offered in this respect. I think, more generally, as far as the banks are concerned, that we should wait for the results of the famous asset quality review which we will be hearing from the National Bank next Sunday. That's waiting. I have every confidence that this time this review has been done by the European authorities in the best possible way. I am also convinced that once taken this hurdle, a lot of uncertainty that is in the banking world today, will be removed. We can expect that this will make lending a little easier than it has been in the past. When I talk about easier lending, there must of course also be demand for credit. That is where the major problem has been that there has been a lack of confidence so far, something in which we hope to change things with this government, which has prevented projects in industry that were on the move or on the table from being implemented at the Bureau for the time being. So much for the whole bank. My second point is something I would dare to describe as fundamental to the economic, fiscal and financial strategy of this government. We have left and start from the observation that Belgium has a very open economy, one of the most open in the world. Whether one likes it or not, it means that the competitiveness of that economy absolutely must be safeguarded, if not there is a problem in terms of jobs, there is a problem in terms of purchasing power and therefore there is also a problem in terms of public finances. In other words, a restructuring effort for public finances which is not supported by a serious policy or which cannot interact with a serious policy of competitiveness is doomed to failure. And that is a type of failure that we do not want to face with this government, hence the double approach, parallel and simultaneous the reorganisation of public finances and the restoration of competitiveness. Thirdly, this is more specifically about how we should restore that competitiveness. It has been said a number of times here this afternoon, this evening, this morning, there are two elements, the index jump and the further reduction in charges of EUR 1 billion. I would like to continue immediately on the index jump, which has been constantly confused this evening. EUR 2.6 billion represents this index jump in terms of the cost to businesses. That's not the same as people's purchasing power. Anyone who says that with an index jump we are taking EUR 2.6 billion in purchasing power out of people's pockets is wrong. That is fundamentally wrong, because the EUR 2.6 billion is, of course, almost two thirds of tax pressure. And so there is more than EUR 1 billion of purchasing power left, which we are not letting come into being through this index jump, but which we are largely compensating for by reducing costs by EUR 2 billion, focusing purely on the lowest wages and pensions and EUR 1 billion on all wage-earners, through the flat-rate deduction costs. In my policy paper, which is, of course, fast-track, I will tell you the details of how this flat-rate deduction will be modulated. That will be done at the time of that policy paper. To conclude this third point, this index jump, this additional EUR 1 billion in charges reduction or EUR 3.6 billion in charges reduction, I checked with two authorities in this area, we must allow us to create 80 000 jobs over three years. Eighty thousand jobs imply a lot of purchasing power for individuals, who would not, or at least would not, have a much lesser purchasing power without those jobs. Fourthly, would we have liked to do more in terms of reducing the burden on the population? Yes, of course we would have. However, we have had to close a budget deficit, the latest data suggest that once again we are very close to the famous 3% limit, which, as you all know, means something in Europe. Moreover, the real break in the trend for me is that the effort to balance the budget by 2018 is being made without an increase in fiscal pressure. Without an increase in the tax burden, we are closing a budget deficit of 3% of gross domestic product, which in Belgian history, as far as I can tell, is without precedent. Fifthly, there has been a reference this evening by several speakers to the saving of pensions, where we are indeed making an advance move, namely out of the 10% of taxes at the end of the journey. What I have not heard anyone say, however, but what is important is that we reduce that 10% to 8 %. In this way we certainly do not increase the tax burden on pension savings. We may even lower them lightly. Sixthly, with regard to the capacity, the inspection fee has been somewhat watered down. I can reassure everyone on this matter. I am already in full contact with my British and Dutch colleagues. These are two countries which do not belong directly to the countries where everything can or where air castles are built, when such matters are involved, and which apply such taxes. Once again, in the policy paper that follows, I would like to explain how we are going to develop this in concrete terms and how we can deal with tax havens and what is in front of us in a fair and transparent way, as it is called. My seventh point concerns companies. We do not directly reduce the burden on companies. However, it is envisaged that a change will be made in the context of the notional interest deduction as regards banks. However, what we believe is extremely important for companies is stability. Companies invest on the basis of their future expectations. There is enormous international uncertainty today. I do not need to make the list of all possible factors of uncertainty and instability that are emerging worldwide today. It is the government's will to ensure stability in the fiscal environment for companies through a so-called fiscal pact. My eighth point concerns tax fraud. Its approach is, of course, also a priority for the government. The government stands for the rule of law, which means that in the area of taxation everyone has to fulfil their obligations. Once again, we will go after tax fraud in a consistent, transparent, fair and legal way. I have had the honour to briefly discuss the financial transaction tax at the Ecofin meeting in Luxembourg. We are moving towards a situation in which perhaps two additional countries will withdraw from the group that is here today. We will therefore be included in the number of ten Member States, which threatens to make the whole thing obsolete. The government is in favour of supporting the project, provided that it is actually carried at European level and not by a limited group of countries. I will conclude with this answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u243	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I will leave the accusations to my party. However, I would like to make it clear to you that science policy is and will be a priority for me and for my party, whatever you may claim. There are different lines of action for that. Indeed, we need to save money. It's necessary. But we will not do that blindly. We will make clear choices. Firstly, it is clearly stated in the government agreement that we will have an audit conducted to review any grant to international or national institutions or initiatives. We will then take decisions on the substance of these institutions in mid-2015. A second line of action is that we will make public institutions work together with other governments, private actors and academic institutions. We want more expertise and more professionalism there. Thirdly, priority should be given to renovating existing infrastructure and collections. First, we need to get our own existing household in order. Do we have a budget cut? Yes. Thus, delusions such as those that are present now need to be eliminated. We want to open up existing works, collections and publications and also make them accessible to the general public. Our fourth action line has accelerated the deployment of digitalisation to facilitate the availability of the material to the general public. We urgently need to reduce the volume of paper. This also reduces our ecological footprint and reduces costs for the government. Fifth, you spoke about the Interfederal Bureau of Space. Yes, space travel is important. We all know that. We know it's an important employer. Here we will not create a new rigid government organisation, but a lighter structure. The Agency shall ensure better coordination of air and space policy with the Regions. That is an important task. It will ensure a better distribution of return on investment between regions. The sixth line of action is to strengthen control over the functioning, financial management and management of the institutions. To this end, management agreements will be concluded with clear responsibilities and minimum conditions will be laid down. In this regard, I refuted the claim that we are not interested in science policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u244	Mr President, I would like to talk briefly about social and fiscal fraud. I would like to address Mr Calvo. After that, my colleague can take over. You are mistakenly assuming, Mr Calvo, that tax fraud is always worse than social fraud. I don't know where you're getting that. I don't know what you're basing yourself on. You also seem to assume that if there is tax fraud, it is a major tax fraud. There are many cases of small tax fraud. I should know, because I've worked in the banking sector for years. Mr Calvo, it wasn't about me, there were customers who went to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg with coupons. They all thought they weren't frauds. They thought all that was normal at the time. I can't do that anymore. There are many cases of small tax fraud and many small ones, Mr Calvo, are also making a big one. It's the same for social fraud. If we tackle social fraud in an efficient way, this can be very effective. This has been proven by the facts in the Netherlands, for example. That's what data mining has been done. When comparing different databases, flashlights indicated that in hundreds of thousands of cases benefit fraud was possible. At that time, millions of euros were effectively collected simply because it had been established that there was no or little energy consumption at certain places of residence. You might call that small social fraud. There are also cases of serious social fraud and they are all listed in the coalition agreement, such as social dumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u245	Mr President, I would like to thank the various interveners. You all have the table now? Two, I heard Mr Wathelet later. I read in French. "We're just asking for some numbers." We are not in the budget debate. He is an expert in this field. It therefore seems to me that the working method to be adopted for a government declaration must be logical. So, according to the timetable and the timing, in three weeks – I can move on to this – in the Committee on Finance and the Budget to debate on the basis of more information. I don't think this is the time, nor the time to go into all the details. I simply note, with Mr. Van Overtveldt, that the net funding balance of 2.8% and the structural balance of 2.3% should encourage us to exercise the utmost caution. On the other hand, you probably know as well as I do the numbers of debt and expected growth. We therefore work within a specific framework. The Prime Minister has expressed on several occasions, along with other colleagues, the desire to have a voluntary and positive policy to reach 11 billion by 2018, without any new tax burden and para-taxation. On the other hand, I would like to answer the three or four questions put to me by either of you. As far as the police areas are concerned, it is planned – as part of a government statement here – that there will be a 2% reduction in the federal budget in 2015 in consultation with the police areas. There will also be specific consultations at the federal police level. There are institutions to do so. As far as SNCB is concerned, my colleague will probably be present earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u246	Where is it in the picture?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u247	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u248	De la SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u249	It stands with the specific departments, with primary expenditure.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u250	Of the 2,3, the SNCB does 2.1?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u251	Yes. I answer the questions very clearly. As far as the exchange transaction tax is concerned, Mr. Van Overtveldt replied: 80 million. I'm being asked if that's true. Yes, it's true, it's 80 million, should we say it three times? Mrs Onkelinx said earlier that who is too justified must have difficulties in the positions he takes. We don't have any. Four: nuclear rent. For the moment, no decision has been made. This must be the subject of further consultation and decision-making at the government level. I believe that I have thus closed the questions that have been specifically put to me. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u252	Mr. Minister of Finance, we will get to know each other. I heard my colleague Calvo describing you as a fairly classic economist and you gave me the confirmation. I would like to point out that the classical theories of austerity are increasingly being challenged today. I will quote an economist who explains that for a euro saved, one and a half euros of growth is lost, thereby constantly increasing the proportion of debt. Austerity itself goes into the wall. So I am not arguing for a fiscal policy that is increasing - as we have done at a time when environmentalists were not in this Parliament - disproportionately debt, but I simply want to say that these revenues are increasingly being questioned and have shown their limits. In times of economic recession, we must be able to reinvest and re-create activity. You explained how you were going to do it. You think the reduction in business costs will mechanically increase the employment by 80,000 units. It will be necessary to calculate the cost of employment in the unit and to consider whether one could not invest differently. I would like to know what guarantees you have that these cost cuts and margin increases will indeed be reinvested in tools and in job creation rather than in shareholders' dividends. I would also like to point out that when we decide to reduce the income of working citizens - this is what is going to happen through cuts in social security budgets - we are also reducing economic activity in the internal market. So I challenge the extremely classical view that is yours in terms of the budget. As far as corporate tax is concerned, I did read in the government statement this concern for stability for businesses. I can respect this concern as long as the tax system is fair and effective. If you say that an unjust and ineffective system must remain stable, it is that you prolong this inefficiency in time. Various studies have shown that notional interests in job creation and activity have a very low cost impact and do not favour firms with the highest labour levels and which most need targeted measures to enable them to create or maintain employment. I would like to address the Secretary of State, Mrs Sleurs, who is responsible for combating tax fraud. In my view, it has not yet incorporated it, and it is important to do so in view of the figures I mentioned earlier in the study, which indicate that EUR 20 billion is exempt from the proper payment of the tax. Before taking further measures and taxation, which is not positive for the functioning of the economy, it is probably necessary to ensure that the tax is properly collected and the lack of answers to the questions asked seems to me to confirm that the fight against tax fraud is not the priority of this government - which I regret - but you can still change your mind and I would be glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u253	Mr President, I have a brief question following a statement by the Minister of Finance, in particular that it would be almost an historic fact that this government would reduce public property. Minister, you have also talked about the welfare envelope. We all know what that is. This is something agreed with the social partners in order to slightly strengthen the lowest benefits and pensions. Today, this is so-called 'cash', in the sense that it is deposited in the account of those concerned. I understand that this government would not do it that way anymore, but would tax the contribution and regulate it through the tax credit. Is this indeed the case, and if so, what is the impact of this on the public debt? This is, of course, a trick to keep that contribution from spending and thus to fill in the public debt in a different way. A second question in this connection concerns the tax credit. That is something that is arranged through the tax letter and through the attack. If what people get today is regulated through the tax credit, then they will not get that contribution for two years. Could you clarify that, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u254	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Sleurs, I don't think I've heard anyone criticise you for not being interested in federal science policy. Precisely, what you're being blamed for is your interest in it a little too much. I would like to have a clarification first, Mrs. Sleurs. You started by telling us that neither you nor your party was disinterested in this competence. You'll excuse me for this familiarity, but at this hour I'm a little tired: may I hear what you or your party have as its ambition for scientific policy. We asked you to speak on behalf of your government. Is the answer you gave us is that of the government, or is that of your party? One last element. From where my parents come, Mrs. Sleurs, there is a saying that sometimes solutions are worse than problems. In this case, the answer you have given us is far from reassuring. You are referring to the question of privatization. It is not clear to me, but we will have the opportunity to come back to it in much more detail in your policy statement. What do you intend to privatize? Our collections? Research as such, with the risk, we know, of lobbying and conflict of interest? I confirm that your answers are more worrying than the statement itself. We will not fail to come back with specific questions. We will expect answers from you as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u255	Mr President, I do not know whether I should address the Minister of Finance or Mr Jamar with regard to the exchange transaction tax. I mean the amount shown in the table: EUR 80 million. I would like to know how this tax will be amended. Will the ceiling or rate be increased? Secondly, Mr. Minister of Finance, you have confirmed the privatisation of Belfius. Do you know when the ancestor of Belfius, the Communal Credit was created; or a rather similar bank, the CGER? When were they created and for how long did they function as public banks? It was in 1860 that the Crédit Communal was created; in 1865 the CGER. Until the 1990s, for more or less 130 years, they operated as public banks without any problems. On the contrary, not only did the State not have to help them, but these banks were helping the State somewhere because they took over social tasks. It took only a decade of private management on both the CGER side with Fortis and the Crédit Communal with Dexia, where Dexia was put on a stock exchange, ten years of private management to make it the disaster and to force the state to intervene. Today, public debt pays for this intervention. Do you think it is really sensible, from the point of view of history, to proceed with this privatisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u256	Mr President, if I understand correctly – I will leave that to my colleagues – we will reduce the federal allocation to police areas by 2%. If this is the direction taken, it is not simply the asphyxiation of the police areas, which are already in a difficult situation, it is also that of the communes. I hope that our colleagues in charge of the Interior will look into this thorny problem. Belfius. If I understand correctly, we are moving towards privatization; it is announced. Think carefully, ladies and gentlemen of the government, not to make an irreversible mistake. I pass the public banking aspect, support for financing SMEs, development of ethical finance. I guess that's not necessarily a priority for you. I think it would be a mistake not to consider it a priority. First, see if Belfius is able to distribute dividends structurally or not and up to how much. Look at Belfius' ability to provide year-to-year funding from the federal government. Don't ask me for numbers. I think you're better informed than I am. But it would be good if we could quickly have a debate on Belfius' financial statements to examine the bank's ability to provide the Belgian State with dividends from year to year. It would be silly to get rid of something that works well and would put butter in the spinach of public finances. Moreover, if you sell abroad, we will lose a Belgian anchor and the decision center will leave elsewhere. Think about that. Finally, we would only be left with KBC with a Belgian anchor. If you sell inside Belgium, you will concentrate the market. To be in the philosophy that is yours, will this sale be optimal from the point of view of the functioning of the financial sector and what about massive job losses? You are talking about the creation of 80,000 jobs with all the measures you are taking. Did you run a simulator? How do you achieve this figure of 80,000 jobs with your cost reductions, etc.- Is that what you're saying? You didn't answer me about the tax reductions on replacement income. We're talking about an indexation freeze on tax expenditures. What about alternative income tax reductions? I would like to be able to clarify this point because, as you know, we have a large number of pensioners in our country who will already be visibly tortured. Let us move on to something else: notional interests. Since you are looking for measures to create jobs, look at the various reports that show that notional interests, in terms of job creation, do not impress anyone. Is it not time to reform them, without a priori, to make them an effective economic policy tool?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u257	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the Budget Minister for the frankness of his response to the funding of the police areas, but I am very frankly appalled by this announcement. We talked about blocking indexing; here, it's a reduction in the resources for the police areas you're announcing to us. It is therefore inevitably a transfer of burdens to the local authorities, to the municipalities: they are the ones who will ultimately have to bear the deficits. This will certainly result in a reduction in employment, as police areas allocate 85 per cent of their budget to staff costs. This seems to me to be in complete contradiction with the priority that you continue to attach to security issues in your statement of government policy. Finally, I cannot help but think that this is yet another denial by our Liberal colleagues. The government is made up of many "blues", but there will obviously be fewer on the street. This is the opposite of what was announced to us in the election campaign; we are beginning to get used to it. The answer you gave prompts me to ask another question in the same vein. With regard to the financing of relief zones, the previous government had set aside envelopes for the future; they were likely to provide some reassurance to the relief areas, which are expected to start on 1 January 2015. Is the increase in these means confirmed or not? This information would be important to the managers of these 13 relief zones. On the other hand, I note that I have not received a reply concerning the impact on local authorities of taxation on intercommunals. I imagine the answer will be to have the communes banked again. Finally, I also did not have an answer to the ARCO file. He'd make it easier for me to get a little information.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u258	Mr President, Mr Jamar has just shown us the value of having figures when we are discussing a government statement. I would therefore like to thank him for the clarifications provided. Two more words pending the thematic discussion on the interior. One million euros is used to pay the salary of eighteen police inspectors. So every time this government withdraws a million euros from the funding of the police areas, it is eighteen policemen who will not be on the street. On the other hand, in the street, you'll see a lot of blues.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u259	Apparently, it's a bad understanding. This is less than 2% of what general indexation should have been.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u260	Thank you for the accuracy. Nevertheless, it is true that one million euros corresponds to eighteen policemen. I do not know what is happening in the Flemish Region but in the Walloon Region, the Fonds des Communes is indexed and increased by 1%, which will allow the municipalities to face the burdens. But that doesn't mean paying more and paying the federal share for the police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u261	Mr. Chair, I thank the minister for her answers. I share the concerns that my colleague has expressed about the institutions. I wanted to go back to the Inter-Federal Office, which you have confirmed. Why? Everything's working well right now! The question put by your colleague proves that behind the fine words there is an institutional will. Belgium is extremely well ranked. Our country is fourth or fifth in space research worldwide. Why should the Regions be brought in and why should decision-making processes be burdened, which will undoubtedly weaken our credibility abroad and our competitiveness? How are you going to do this since the subject of space research is a federal subject covered by the special law of 8 August 1980?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u262	Mr President, I come back to the question of 2% and the financing of police areas. Even if it is 3:40, I think that this information can very quickly take on a certain scope. Mr Jamar, you have just made it clear that this is 2% less than what was expected. This means that this is 2% of the effort compared to what was planned in the monitoring committee. This means that there is no 2% reduction and that on the basis of what was planned in the 2015 monitoring committee, there is an effort of 2%. We need to understand what we're doing. Indeed, this means that the monitoring committee works on a constant political basis. I guess his job hasn't changed. On a consistent policy basis, there will be some increase in the resources to be paid to the police areas. This represents an effort on their part of 2% in relation to what a constant policy would have given. Also, ladies and gentlemen, local agents, you will receive 2% less than expected. I recall that it is in addition to a file, such as the police pension file, that these police officers will stay longer in your areas, that you will have to pay them longer for a smaller operationality. In fact, over the age of 50, police officers cannot do the same type of service. This would have a huge impact on our communities and police areas. [[But is that what we're talking about?]] Let's be clear on the bottom!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u263	I would like to be very specific about that, because I understand the question that is being asked. Any ambiguity on the subject must be avoided. The government's will in this area is very simple: it is to consider that indexation should be effectively limited. So I am not talking about non-indexing for a very simple reason, it is that in the endowment there is a share of wages, concerned by non-indexing and a share that are not wages. Our wish is to set, in consultation with the municipalities and police areas, an objective of limiting indexation on the allocation. I'm not even talking about a non-indexation of staffing, because in staffing we have to distinguish the wage part from the non-wage part. We want to do this in consultation, I repeat, with the police areas and with the municipalities, precisely to take into account all the parameters, including the solution that we wish to find, Mr Wathelet, following decisions taken with regard to the police pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u264	With regard to the points raised, there are more economists' debates and it is always useful to look at the available figures in situations such as those described by you. You also know without a doubt that the last two or three years are the fastest growing and most job-creating economies in the United Kingdom and the United States. What have these countries done over the past three or four years? They have dramatically reduced their budget deficit, i.e.:austerity. Your argument that thinking about economic policy is not right or is no longer of this time is in flagrant contradiction with the facts I have just mentioned. You could, of course, argue that monetary policy in those countries was very different from that in our country. That is to some extent true, but I can give you an excellent study by the Federal Reserve itself which shows that the growth and employment impact of their monetary policy, of their famous QE, has been fully developed after a short period of time and that it makes sense for very different reasons. To reject Austerity, as you describe it, because it does not work, is fundamentally contrary to the reality in the two countries where austerity was applied in the strongest sense, and I refer to the well-known concept of the structural budget deficit. That is where the most important thing has been done. That is, I repeat, in flagrant contradiction with what you are saying about the obsolescence of that philosophy or that approach to wage policy. As for the stock market fee, the ceiling will be increased to 80 million euros. In connection with the state bank, the times of the ASLK and the City credit were quite different times, with much more fragmented financial markets, almost closed financial markets. In the meantime, we are living in a very different financial environment, which makes the comparison somewhat distorted, to say the least. With regard to the sale of Belfius, it is obvious that in such an exercise one of the first calculations to be made is an updated calculation of the expected dividends and that a possible target price is at least partly of them. So the point that the government is going to miss dividends does not make itself felt; that will, of course, be included in the price if necessary. That is the definition of a good price and I can assure you that as Minister of Finance I will see to it that we will collect the dividends, which you fear we will not receive, even at the time of sale. That is the definition of a good transaction with respect to a financial institution. That is how it is done everywhere, and that is how we are going to do it if necessary. I cannot repeat enough that there will certainly not be any haste and certainly not haste but a well-considered argument and calculation of what this should bring about for the Belgian State. As far as the 80 000 jobs are concerned, they are in the models of the Planning Bureau and certainly are, because that is where I took the conservative estimate, in the internationally recognized models of Professor Konings van de KU Leuven. If you like, I can get you those studies in the short term. I have two comments on ARCO. Firstly, we are still in the process of settling the settlement of ARCO. In the approach to the dossier, it is very important to wait for the result. Secondly, from a legal point of view, this dossier is very complex and it is very sensitive, not only but also, and certainly not least, because of its relationship with Europe. There is an agreement in principle within the government, but it is impossible for us to be more concrete at the moment, because of these two elements. They also asked why they did not opt for a more cylindrical reduction in charges. The answer to that is very simple. It is clear that the problem is the most acute at the level of the lowest wages. Let us not call ourselves Lyzebet, the problem of labour burdens is at every level of the wage ladder. Unfortunately, when a company comes here and invests, it does so not only in the least skilled labour, but also in higher skilled labour. Believe me, at that level too, there is a problem in terms of wage costs. Finally, Mr Vanvelthoven, fiscalisation. We will indeed tax the welfare envelope. This is another approach, which, of course, gives about the same result for those involved. I will explain in my policy paper how we will do this in concrete terms. It is being examined very closely at the moment, but I can assure you that it is possible and that we will implement this measure as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u265	Mr President, I would like to comment on the questions on Science Policy. I have, of course on behalf of the government, outlined the guidelines. In this respect, a consensus was reached, in the sense that we will fully implement the coalition agreement, with my full support. Specific requests were made for privatisation. We are talking about cooperation and facilitation. I will explain the specific development of the specific policies later and I will be happy to discuss them in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u266	With regard to the issue of staffing in police areas, my question is very simple. Is there a figure in the budget? If so, how high is it? What, then, is the share of wages and what is it that does not concern them?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u267	Mr President, I shall speak quickly on four points. First, you chose two countries outside the euro area. All the Member States in this area that have opted for austerity are now in severe recession. There are alternatives to the choices you offer. I am thinking of a forward-looking investment policy. The countries which have chosen, on the contrary, niches of activity, particularly in energy efficiency, are the most advanced regions of Europe. Secondly, on the resale of Belfius, you used a "kan", then a "zal", a "may", then a "sera". Now you say that if we negotiate, it will be at a good price. But it's not just that criterion. We also need to think about the ability to influence our internal market, to keep driving in Belgium. In recent years, we have lost, in particular due to the resale of Fortis, an important capacity in our internal market. Depending on foreign investors and banks is not positive for our economy. Thirdly, the fight against tax evasion is not of interest to your government. The Secretary of State still has a little work to do on the matter, but we're going to give her time. Fourthly, with regard to the financing of police areas, let me consider that the various answers given by the Secretary of State to the budget, the Prime Minister, etc. indicate malaise in the new government. We will not accept a new manoeuvre aimed at impoverishing local communities for the benefit of the federal state, as has already been done in the not-so-distant past. It is a little easy to postpone the burden on others, as was the case in police reform, but also in emergency areas. I am surprised to see local agents, mayors, etc. completely change your mind after obtaining federal responsibilities, not depriving yourself of denouncing this situation as part of their Mayorial function.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u268	Mr President, with regard to the latter, I can only agree with Mr Gilkinet. It's definitely not the first time. Also for local drivers, times are difficult. Mr Van Overtveldt, I would particularly like to mention an element that may have been lost in your reply. You said that you had a simulation of the tax measures in the government agreement and the effects on job creation. You have said that this is quantified and, in my opinion, that is interesting. You are creating an opening to make those figures available, and I would like to make use of that opening, because I think it would be interesting if you gave Parliament that figure.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u269	I wanted to restate the question of the emergency areas. Either the Minister of Budget or the Prime Minister, can one of the two confirm or tell us what the budget path is in the very specific tables developed up to 2018? Is the refinancing decided by the previous government considered to be acquired and confirmed in your fiscal trajectory?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u270	Two answers. The first one on the rescue zones. To confirm that what was envisaged in the monitoring committee was taken into account in relation to this, nothing was cut off with regard to the relief areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u271	I'm sorry to bother you. I will speak less loud in the future so as not to disturb Mrs Lalieux, who is very busy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u272	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u273	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u274	Of course, Mrs. Lalieux. Don't get excited at all. It's gonna be okay. Is anyone else asking to speak in the debate on the budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u275	Mr President, there were two questions to which I can give two specific answers. First, there was the question about the emergency services. As far as the relief areas were concerned, Mr Dispa asked whether we had planned the budget path as defined by the previous government. The answer is clear. Yes, we maintained, in accordance with the monitoring committee, the trajectory that was planned for the rescue areas. That's a first clear answer, I think. As far as police areas were concerned, Mr Laaouej asked whether there was any amount foreseen in the clean-up. Yes, this is a maximum amount of EUR 14.5 million in 2015 out of a total amount of EUR 725 million. Why do I say 14.5 million euros maximum? Because this amount corresponds to 100% of non-indexation in 2015. However, I have spoken to you about a limitation on indexation. This could therefore be a lower amount. On the other hand, Mr Laaouej, you forgot to mention it, but I know that this has not escaped you: the fact that this government has taken a decision of which much has been said about index jump has an impact on Entity II - federated entities - but also on local authorities and municipalities. For the sake of clarity of the debate, it seems important to remind us once again. That had not been said much.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u276	Mr Gilkinet, one of our main lines of action in the fight against tax fraud is indeed the recovery procedures, which you say many millions of people escape there. They will be put on track and will have to be much more efficient than they are at present. So it is indeed a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u277	That concludes the debate on finance, taxation and the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u278	Mr President, as group leaders, we were not invited to the tea party just now on your altar. It is no longer about the table, Mr Jambon. It's about something else. Either we organise the work together as usual in Parliament, or you organise it by the majority. However, it must remain a bit serious. What is the proposal now?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u279	If we can organize it in a social way, then we can still deal with health and energy. After all, Mrs Marghem has been waiting here all along. Then we'll finish. It is for me to arrange the work, I suppose. We shall now proceed to the debate on health.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u280	I understand that it is up to you, and it is your role, to set the agenda, but it has been more than eight hours since I asked you the question at least four times. As I told you, I'm involved in justice. These are unacceptable practices. It is not possible to operate in a House like this by not telling people how far we go because we don't have the same notion of finish. I am ready to intervene in matters of justice. I cannot make a two-and-a-half hour round trip and speak again at 10:00 a.m. If you can do it, I can't!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u281	We'll see how long the debates will last, but we're gonna keep it social.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u282	We asked you for clear and accurate information. How long will the session last? You don't know that!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u283	Mrs Özen, I explained to you that we would still be addressing the issue of health and the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u284	Mr President, I would like to give you something. The way in which you now operate is exactly the same as the way in which your predecessor, Mr Flahaut, used to operate, and which we have always congratulated from the opposition as a correct chairman. He acted in exactly the same way you did. He also always looked at how far we could finish the agenda, after which a certain hour was stopped. He did the same thing in the same way. It is intellectually unfair that the PS Group should act in this way. That's intellectually unfair.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u285	Shouldn't we just continue the debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u286	Mr Jambon, you are given the floor right away; we must ask for it three times. But this has nothing to do with the political family! It is a pure coincidence that you receive it and not us! Mr Jambon, have you become aware of what you have just said? You just spent four years criticizing the way Mr. Flahaut managed the House. You told him he didn't give the opposition enough room. And now you boast that the current president does the same thing as Mr Flahaut did before! (Brouhaha) Second, what I'm living here, that, objectively, I've never seen. First, we do not receive the requested documents that are announced to us by the government. (Brouhaha) I have time. President, when I get the floor, I have to speak. If you don't interrupt me, it will go much faster! If we had the paintings at the beginning of the day, it would have been much faster as well. We wouldn't have wasted that much time. All you had to do was give them. It was enough to break up, as Mr. Denis Ducrame told us. We had to make this breakup, this other way of working. We would have worked a lot faster. It has been hours since we asked for an estimate of the end of the work, a clarification of the agenda. We have asked for this as vulgar members of the opposition. Mr. Dewael was not in the conciliabule with the group leaders since he is no longer there, but the other three group leaders are there. Then, suddenly, we have the new agenda. Fortunately, Mrs Lalieux got a little upset with Mrs Marghem so that we could also talk about energy and the environment, even if those who were supposed to intervene later on in the matter of justice will obviously grumble. If you had just given a limit or if you had said we were going to the finish, things would have been clear! A healthy and serene debate between majority and opposition takes place in clear terms. We'll always have our differences.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u287	Mr Wathelet, I will be very clear. I accept the debate and tell you what the order of the day is. We'll deal with two more topics and we'll start again tomorrow at 2:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u288	Mr President, can I finish the reasoning? Every time you interrupt us, you lengthen the sauce. Understand that in a healthy and serene debate, everyone is allowed to express themselves. Learn to make good compromises and agreements, it will allow everyone to be content in their right to speak and you will avoid the lengths we know today.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u289	Can we get started on Health and Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u290	Mr President, I am still at the heart of the debate. I did not hear the Secretary of State's answers about the Inter-Federal Office for Space. Madam Secretary of State, if you give me certain intentions, your non-responses turn my beliefs into certainties!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u291	We shall begin the debate on Health and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u292	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Jacques Chirac said that a good speech is like a mini-skirt. It must be short enough to attract attention but long enough to cover the essentials. I'll try to stick to that maxim. Not out of will, but because it's the Rules of Procedure. I have heard that you remind each speaker of the minutes. Minister, I'd like to tell you a little story. I was playing with my kids to make them understand something. I asked them to circle and put their priorities in this circle and divide them into quarters, sixths, fifths, as they wished, and to put love, friendship, money and, of course, health in them. Some chose love – probably they had it in mind at that time – and others chose money – perhaps they wanted to buy a bike – and then, at some point, they asked me how I would do it. I made a circle and in it, I put health. All I was doing was health. Because, because you're rich, powerful, when you don't have health, it becomes unbearable and unbearable. Hence the importance of the health debate. Hence the desire of the Socialist Party to support health through, in particular, the actions that have been carried out by Laurette Onkelinx and the Socialist Party for 25 years at the level of the government – it has been recalled enough – but already before. What did we want? Ensuring access to health care, ensuring access with a quality of health care by trying to reach the patient's portfolio as little as possible and by continuing and putting all conditions in place for health care workers to do so in the most effective way possible. For us Socialists, this was obviously one of the priorities of all the governments in which we participated. When I read the government's agreement, I am a little surprised at the words used in the government statement. It deals with rationalization, productivity, controls and sanctions. I confess that my conception of health policy is quite far from this type of vocabulary. It is true that – and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, who had to leave us because she has a problem on her back, hence the importance of being healthy, recalled – this government agreement includes very good measures. I will mention six of them: strengthening the financial transparency of health care, the attractiveness plan for nurses, the creation of an Unmet Medical Needs procedure, the plan for medical care, the detailed cadastre of the health care professions and the reform of hospital funding. All these proposals in the government statement seem to us – I repeat – very positive as they are part of the continuation of the measures taken by Laurette Onkelinx and the plans that she put in place during the previous legislature. This means, in a way, that you implicitly acknowledge – I am pleased – that socialist action has not been completely useless, even though some believe that our non-presence in government is in itself a revolution. I stop for examples. But I can quote others and tell you that they are in that line. On the other hand, in this statement I find very few new policies. And I deeply regret it. I don't see any new reimbursements, for example for dental care. I see nothing about tobacco or alcohol policy. Of course, we are talking about a revision of the nomenclature, a revision of Royal Decree No 78, the reform of hospital financing. I also hear that a task force will be set up to do this. Having said that, I have a first question. My group and I would like to know who will support this task force. When I read that you wanted a merger or, at least, very precise rapprochements between INAMI and the Public Health FPS, I imagine it will be difficult to ask them in addition to participating in these kinds of things. On the other hand, in all the proposals that are made, I note that you are even going back. Indeed, with regard to the law of 27 December 2012 which provided for the accessibility of health care and which provided that they would receive an automatic third-party fee for medical benefits as of 1 January 2012, you boast that you will do so – and I thank you for that, I find it wonderful – but you are shifting the application of this law to July 2015. So, either you post certain measures, or you pursue others, or you say you're going to think about it. I understand that this statement is no more precise for the simple reason that we are facing a budgetary problem. In my view, this is where the core of the problem lies: the budget. However, a coherent public health policy must obviously be based on a clear and precise budgetary objective. Moreover, in its general policy statement, the Di Rupo government had at the outset announced this budgetary objective by specifying the standard of growth it intended to set. Why? Because this standard of growth is essential, it is a guarantee of financial stability in the sector, it allows for the maintenance of quality health care for all, taking into account the ageing of the population, the development of new and, above all, costly technologies. On the other hand, there are no figures in this government agreement. Madam Minister, I must admit that if Michel was "impuis santé", I am "integrated" by the figures that the Prime Minister quoted yesterday regarding the health care budget. You can check: it exists, I have checked. He indicated that the growth standard would be 1.5%; so far, it is clear even if it can be estimated that it is little aware of the real growth in health care in recent years. On the other hand, what becomes less clear is to hear a nominal growth standard of 2.2% and then to hear EUR 1.2 billion. That is why I must admit that my second question concerns the budget in the years to come. We have received a picture: I see a saving of 2.87 billion. Is that correct? Can you confirm the numbers? In this case, a problem appears to be obvious. We have a health care system that is one of the best in the world. When we look at the figures – I'm still taking another KCE study – the per capita cost of health care is around €3,000 in Belgium. In the United States, a country that some of you find extraordinary, the cost is double. It is 6 to 7,000 euros per capita. Our health care system is one of the best. And we are below the European average. At the same time, our access to health care is extraordinary. We have 0.6 or 0.8% – probably too high – of people who are not covered by the social security system in Belgium. In the Netherlands and Denmark, the figures are 1.6%, double the figure. If I go to the United States, this country is so extraordinary, only 30 per cent of the population is covered by the system. Our system is fabulous; it works; it does not cost more than in other countries. In the policy statement, we will need to be told how we are going to continue to guarantee access to health care, with quality care, while maintaining wages and good working conditions and, in doing so, saving billions of euros from the budget. A real mathematical problem arises for me. I'll finish without talking about hospitals. Minister, please don't be the Buffalo Bill who kills all the bison at the risk of extirpating the species. I hope that you will preserve our social security that allows us to be healthy because when we have health, we can hope for everything!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u293	Mr President, I would just like to point out that there should be a little more respect for the staff in the organisation of the work. We cannot work until tomorrow morning, when they were told it would last until midnight. I think they should also be taken into account. Moreover, as a member of the Committee on Health, I would also like to say that what we are doing now is unhealthy.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u294	You are right on that last point.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u295	I hope nobody's gonna hit anything with the car. Mr Prime Minister, Madam Minister for Health and Social Affairs, Mr Maggie, your predecessor in Public Health, Mrs Onkelinx, who has now been transformed into a fervent leader of the PS, has put many health care issues on the right track in recent years. I would like to thank her for this work today. I know she does not feel well because she has had an operation on her back, but I would nevertheless like to pass on to her colleagues, and she herself said that in a number of areas this government will have to do no more than reap the benefits of the policy pursued by the Socialist Minister for Health in the past legislature. I list a number of domains on which there is no discussion anymore. A first area concerns the search for new hospital funding, where quality is paramount. All actors are on the same page there. We will continue to discuss its implementation in committee, and my colleague, Mrs De Coninck, will work on it. Another area is the revision of Royal Decree No. 78 on eHealth. There is also the re-examination of the nomenclature and I can mention a number of other things. Efforts to control the growth standard in health care were discussed in the Chamber yesterday. I'd like to come back to it because I'm worried. The announced ceiling of growth in health care to 1.5 % has already been tested a few times in relation to reality. Mrs Onkelinx has recently been able to land on an annual growth rate of 0.9 %. This is strong, given the ageing population and ongoing innovations in healthcare. In other words, the government's desire to achieve a growth standard of 1.5% is justified, but on two conditions. Firstly, the savings must not be made on the patient's hood, a concern which Mrs Onkelinx rightly raised earlier, as there is nothing to be found in the coalition agreement. Secondly, the growth rate should maintain some volatility. For example, the Planning Bureau fears that a growth standard of 2% may be necessary to cover the rising costs of caring for the ageing population. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are obliged to analyse carefully the now infamous savings tables. I therefore hope that more details will be released than we have received today, in order to find out in committee on which services, people and care the new government will save, and what its effect will be on the patient. When I look at the chapter on health care, I am concerned about a number of issues. Of course there are interesting passages, but I get the strong impression that they were written too much from the health economists' point of view. Evaluating, optimizing, adjusting, pursuing efficiency in care, that's always a good thing. In fact, it is absolutely necessary not to get derailments in our care. The further upswing of eHealth and MyCareNet are therefore logical proposals. However, we believe that the coalition agreement is too one-sidedly focused on the organisation and tools needed for this, and that there is too little attention for the people in charge of care. There is not enough attention for the people responsible for the care. I do not mean the doctors, Madam Minister, because they are quite rightly being discussed, but I am thinking of the nurses, the midwife and the midwife and other care providers who are at home or in hospital day and night on the patient's sickbed. You may be able to clarify a few things later, but I do miss that in the coalition agreement. Madam Minister, from our group, we will be fully involved in all the proposals put forward in the preamble to the Health Section of the Government Declaration. I quote: "One of the central objectives of this government is to ensure quality, affordable and accessible health care for all citizens of the country." These objectives are extremely important. However, I have to say that we do not have some necessary commitments with regard to the last two objectives. For example, I refer to the recent fiery debates we have had in the hemisphere on the medicine Soliris, a life-saving medicine for a rare disease. Unfortunately, that resource was extremely expensive and the company, which was very profitable, has actually put pressure on the government to repay it. I read in the coalition agreement that you are asking the pharmaceutical industry for more transparency, but I had hoped that this government would make sure that incidents that would lead to truly scandalous profits prioritising the recovery of sick people would be curbed. What we are also concerned about is that the extension of the automatic social third-party contributor, which has already been decided, is being condemned and that the chronically ill are no longer included in it. However, it is usually also chronically ill, and today even people of better socio-economic classes, who have to delay their concerns because they can no longer pay the invoices. I now come to my comments on the hospitals. I will not dwell on it, but as I said earlier in my speech, everyone agrees that we need to reform hospital funding and that we need to guarantee quality care, but this is still my stick horse and will be for years to come, if the situation does not change, I think it is unfair that in a single room, honorary wages are still charged for a doctor's action. I understand very well that people charge more for a luxury room, but not for giving birth or putting a hip prosthesis, for example. That one has to pay more because one is in a single room, that is absolutely not going to happen to me. I hope, therefore, that the possible deficits, which exist today in certain hospitals, will be filled in a correct way and not by diversions. We also heard that there will be rationalization in the supply of specialties. To prevent overconsumption of expensive radiological tests and other, double investigations, you will find a supporter in sp.a. We look forward to seeing how you will actually define and complete the medical programming of specialities in hospitals, together with the Regions, who, after the sixth state reform, were given greater authority. Mrs. De Block, I'm glad you're a general practitioner in Public Health, because, through your practical experience, you can take considered measures. For the doctors, for example, you are doing very well in the coalition agreement. However, I am surprised that you are committed to further developing the watchkeeping regime, that you provide comprehensive support for doctors and trainees and that you want to reform accreditation, but at the same time you do not take advantage of the opportunity to address the supplements that non-conventional doctors charge in private practice. Ladies and gentlemen, for a full analysis of the area of health care, the speaking time we were given is really too short. I'm gonna finish up. Our group is concerned, Madam Minister, not about your commitment, because each of us is truly convinced that you have a heart for the sick, otherwise you would never have become a doctor. However, in the present coalition agreement, we consider the chilly economists' talk. That is why we are concerned that you will have little power in a government which, as we have learned from all previous debates, is not centre-right, but right.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u296	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I think that in his general policy statement, the Prime Minister said: "Economic growth and sound public finances are the basis par excellence for well-being and social progress". Where I can join Mr Mathot is that it must be recognised that Belgium, over time, has set up a social security system that is internationally recognised and that almost all of them are in a state of disbelief. Also, I think that what is important is that this achievement is the rest. This requires rigorous and wasteful management. There, on the other hand, Mr Mathot, this goes against what you said when you spoke of control, where it seemed to you that many controls were going to be carried out in the future. Well, which says waste reduction, which says rigor, says control. Today, our social protection is faced with the challenges of ageing, which entail increasing costs, both for the payment of pensions and for the care of health care. That is why this government has made a clear commitment to ensure structural reforms. And I think that we can only welcome the reforms that aim to put people at work and keep them there longer so that they can participate in the sustainable financing of social security. Contrary to what I have heard or what the opposition has claimed during the course of the day, my group will be able to assure the population that this government will be a social government, because it will guarantee, among other things, the welfare envelopes for the employed but also the self-employed at the rate of 100 %. This will raise the level of the lowest social benefits at the poverty line and will be used in consultation with the social partners. This government will be a social government, because it will fight against black work and social fraud, which deprive workers of essential social protection. There too, there is a need for control. The Government will continue its social efforts for years to improve the social status of the self-employed. We cannot repeat enough: the economic fabric of our country is carried by our SMEs and the self-employed. It is therefore our duty to provide them with an environment conducive to their development. This government will be a social government because it is going to decline an ambitious plan to fight poverty since there can be no question of leaving anyone at the edge of the road. And finally, this government will be a social government because it devotes an important part of its agreement to health care. In this regard, the MR has contributed to a government agreement with a strong focus on patient and provider health with increased attention to mental health, chronic disease and access to medication. Minister, I have the intuition that major reforms to the structures of our health care will be possible. And it's time! Of course, we insist that these reforms be carried out in full consultation with all stakeholders, and I know, Madam Minister, that you are committed to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u297	I still have a little trouble. I want to hear everything we want. But you say that all the solutions will come because we are going to create jobs. I can hear that, I can believe you, I can wish it. I am asking no better than tomorrow, we are creating 80 000, 100 000, 200 000 jobs, but that is the policy of all the countries of Europe. It can be said that the problem is not specifically Belgian or that the problem is no more specific in Belgium than elsewhere. The problem is widespread in the context of an international and global economic crisis. You will be able to solve all the problems; I can hear it but come and say that in the background, everything will be solved by this, so explain to me why we are reducing the envelope to the level of health care. You say that tomorrow, thanks to the jobs, we will have more revenue and therefore we will be able to continue to make health care as it is for the moment. This means that the budget allocated to health care must remain the same or I have not understood anything. When we see all the envelopes and how they are reduced, I can hear that tomorrow there will be more rigour. We have a hospital in the territory of my commune of 60% of which we are shareholders; I do not see how we will be able to have more rigour than at present. But no doubt you have solutions that will enable us to save millions of euros tomorrow. It is clear that it is not only Seraing's hospital that is in trouble. It is known that all hospitals in Belgium are in extremely complicated financial situations. But it is probably a lack of rigour in all state hospitals that will save billions of euros in health care spending tomorrow. I really have a big problem with the arguments that are given; you are saying that you are going to reduce the amounts allocated to the health care budget and you are not explaining anywhere in this government statement how to do this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u298	Mr Mathot, I can understand in a way your reaction. On the other hand, when you say that high-quality work has been done by Mrs. Onkelinx and her team, we can join you. Let us take the field of chronic diseases: we know very well that at this level, an excellent work has been done. We didn't say we were going to change everything. What is certain is that we will work differently. What you will find in the statement in terms of health care is that we will work more rigorously. I have given you a number of reforms that will ultimately enable us, in any case within the framework of what we have planned, to carry out this policy with the means we have and will have. I believe that the MR defends first and foremost a liberal medicine and wishes to safeguard the independent character of the health professions. We defend the free choice of patients, therapeutic freedom, the value of the act and the personal relationship between provider and patient. In this context, we also advocate the accountability of all health actors. The health care budget, which will always be limited, as I have just said, must be used in the most effective and efficient way. To this end, care providers must define the best practices for patients in their field and carry out a continuous evaluation of their activities. We're asking somewhere for some kind of self-control.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u299	You say you want a response from all players. As you know, we have had very intense debates on this in the Committee on Health. When it comes to patient response, we have said that it is absolutely right to encourage adherence to therapy. Patients should take their medication properly, consult their doctor. They must also be followed up. We are absolutely opposed to sanctioning the patients. You walk a dangerous slope with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u300	Mrs Detiège, it is indeed a question of cooperation between doctors and patients. It's still the doctors who have to make the decisions afterwards. That is the responsibility of the doctors in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u301	Is it intended to sanction the patient if he does not follow a particular care course correctly? Then what do you want to do in that case?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u302	That is indeed the case. We have had this discussion in the previous legislature, and we will take that into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u303	That is not an answer to the question for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u304	Mrs. Detiège, I've just defended my PhD on therapy loyalty. I therefore believe that we have the necessary expertise to know how to deal with therapy. Indeed, we should not punish but support. The necessary measures are also being taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u305	I insist on paying attention. I didn't get an answer to my question. What about the patient's response in this story? Will you force him or stimulate him? That is a clear question. That question was not addressed to you, but to Mr Thiéry and the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u306	As far as patients are concerned, we highlight the attention given to chronic patients – under the previous government, we have worked hard at that level – the strengthening of tariff security, the strengthening of transparency, the challenges of rare diseases, the challenges for patients undergoing double diagnosis, and rapid access to medicines. I would also like to point out, Madam Minister, that we are extremely pleased with the mention of the creation of a compensation fund for patients or victims infected with hepatitis C. As a reminder, AIDS patients have received funding as a result of their contamination. There is therefore no reason why, in the long run, this solidarity should not be extended to the victims of post-transfusion hepatitis. We hope that this lump sum compensation can be allocated to these victims. One of the Government's priorities will also be to reduce the administrative burden on providers, in particular on doctors, including by simplifying the prescription of medicines. This simplification is essential for all care providers so that they can continue to devote themselves fully to listening to and caring for their patients. In general, the government will have to work to improve the attractiveness of care providers. I would add that the reform of childcare is of paramount importance and that doctors at risk of revocation should not be forgotten. We still haven't found solutions to these problems, but I know we're going to work on them. The independence of official pharmacists as well as medical-pharmaceutical consultation will be strengthened, and we welcome this. In conclusion, I would like to say that the funding of hospitals will have to be thoroughly reviewed, as provided for in the government agreement. In addition, the role of mutualities will be given special attention. Indeed, they are essential players in our social protection system. But everyone will have to be responsible. Let us now give way to action, to work, to the implementation of all the projects that our country needs very much in the field of health care and social security. We expect the opposition, as was the case in its time, to have positive help and constructive attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u307	Mr. Thiéry, I have a solution. We can do the same as in the United States. I hear they have the best doctors in the world. There, when you don't have money, you're not sick. All we have to do is tell people not to be sick.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u308	Mr President, Mr Mathot, you allow me to establish a link between your speech and the beginning of mine. Indeed, the first major challenge in terms of health is to have a comprehensive health policy that addresses health inequalities. These differ from unequal access to health care. It's about seeing what makes some of us healthy, while others have a particularly high probability of being in poor health. What are the determinants that account for 90% of our health status? These are the socio-economic determinants: the state of poverty, the quality of work, knowing what will happen, stress, but also the quality of housing, the living environment, and exposure to chemical substances. However, as the Ecolo-Groen Group leaders said earlier, the social and environmental policies proposed by this government are a source of inequality and exposure to risks and will therefore affect the health of Belgian citizens. It is true, Madam Minister, that the intention of the declaration is to guarantee access to health care for all and that you have proposals aimed at achieving this objective by means of the maximum amount to be charged, the automatic third party paying from the general practitioner, etc. These are measures that we can obviously only support, but they are only restorative. The first step is that your government agrees to pursue social policies that serve the quality of life and the quality of the environment in order to minimize the risk of disease to citizens. I also wanted to take the example I mentioned earlier to Mr Borsus concerning the two months that an employer will have to pay for a sick worker. In the statement, I understood that the intention of this measure was to empower the employer to provide good working conditions and to make his workers less ill than they are today. At the same time, by exerting this pressure, by preventing an employer from replacing a sick worker, what is being done? Pressure on workers is increased by putting them in competition. Occupational health problems will therefore arise for both the worker and his employer. The second major challenge is to have the financial means to carry out a health policy that will meet the needs of our aging population, with the development of chronic diseases, as well as the needs associated with the need for access to and development of innovations. The Plan Office and the various management observers say that these objectives can only be achieved with a 2.3% growth standard. Your government proposes 1.5%: it means that either needs related to the ageing of the population will not be met, or innovations cannot be developed. Like Mr Mathot, I would like a more precise explanation. Is it 1.5%, 2.2% in 2015, and then 1.5%? I do not understand the figures in the table very well; therefore, I would like to have a little more information. You're proposing ways to save money. One of them calls me at the level of the meaning you put in it. You're talking about empowering actors, especially the patient. For us, environmentalists, it is important that the patient be seen as an actor in his or her health. He must be a partner, understand his treatment, understand what he needs to do to avoid worsening. We are here in an interesting logic. On the other hand, when I read about self-management of health and insufficiently defined accountability, I wonder if that means that a patient who does not do what he or she has to do or a citizen who has risky behaviours could be excluded. It is very important that you specify these elements to ensure a coherent health policy. Respect for the patient is also a means of changing lifestyles, it is a means of focusing attention on the way in which consumer goods are produced. This relates to the product standards policy, which is not taken into account by this government. As Minister of Health, you must also intervene with other ministers in this government to ensure that attention is given to it. With regard to the over-consumption of medicines, important work needs to be done. Our seniors, both at home and in nursing homes, over-consumption of medicines; they should be assisted to limit their consumption. Respect for patients and accountability, patient support, also means taking into account close caregivers, those who give them time. Unfortunately, for them, there is no element to fill this empty shell of the end of the past legislature which was to designate a close caregiver status: what is it for? We still don't know. This shell remained empty despite our efforts to have Mr. Courard fill it with a minimum of rights. It will have to be completed if we want to be able to accompany the citizens. Another subject: I would like to have an explanation of this insistence on the supervision of mutuals via the Court of Auditors. If the goal is to make management transparent, to ensure that management is sound, don't worry. On the other hand, as I heard during the campaign, particularly on the part of the MR, if the objective is to eliminate mutuals, it is quite different. Can you tell me clearly what is being targeted? In the absence of sufficient explanation, I ask you the question, Mrs De Block, in order to clarify the situation. Perhaps so you will reassure me and make me particularly happy. Secondly, the reform of hospital financing. Mr. Mathot, I really hope that we can do an interesting job that will reuse the material of the previous government. A famous work has indeed been done by the KCE: its report and the leads it provides are particularly interesting. They could radically change this way of financing in order to avoid retrocessions on the part of specialist doctors, to mix envelopes – remuneration of specialists, operation of hospitals, technical appliances –, to equalize remuneration between specialists, to integrate quality elements. Among these elements, I hope that we will find out how a hospital maintains its relationship with the first line, that is, general practitioners. Finally, the last challenge is the follow-up to the sixth reform of the State. We are with a public service staff within the SPF, within the INAMI. Some dealt with certain matters that were transferred on time; they could be a Flemish, a Walloon or a Brusselser. Now, the material will be broken out in a rather disparate manner. This needs to be addressed in order to ensure a proper functioning at the federal level and at the same time in the various federated entities. Mr President, I am going to stop my speech here and I hope that the positive intentions of access to health care will also be characterized by access to quality care and real reform policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u309	Mr President, I was quite interested in the Prime Minister's speech, especially in his part on the consideration of those Belgians living below the poverty line: 15 % is huge! I was very happy because he indicated that this situation was unworthy of our country. I fully agree with that view. No one can be indifferent. However, I am still asking myself a small preliminary question. In the past, we had been consistent in action within the framework of the Federal Plan to Combat Poverty. We had a secretary of state who was leading social integration and the fight against poverty. Here I have a secretary of state who manages the fight against poverty and a minister who leads social integration. Who will give orders to whom? Who is going to lead all the policies? In my opinion, it would have to be clarified. Perhaps a cooperation agreement will be signed between the two. Perhaps it would be interesting to know who to turn to. If there is a federal plan to combat poverty, there is a whole series of things that will be translated into the framework of social integration policy. If I make sense, it should be the Secretary of State who gives orders to the minister. Similarly, the role of CPAS should be clarified. As President of CPAS myself, I am glad that you often quote CPAS in the government agreement. You indicate that they need to work with them, that we need to improve our operations, that we need to involve the CPAS and even consult them for the implementation of certain policies. However, on page 51 of the government agreement, you finally state that "the federal government will modify the legal framework to allow for the organic integration of municipal administrations and CPAS. It will ensure that the current social assistance tasks of the CPAS are always guaranteed with respect to privacy." That's the least I can do. I would remind you that social workers are subject to professional secrecy and that guarantees are necessary to ensure the professionality of the aid. There is a declaration of regional policy in Flanders and Wallonia, except that in Wallonia it is a possibility and not an obligation. It would be appropriate to state here that this is a possibility and not an obligation. This is not indicated as it is in the government agreement, but I thank you for your clarification. This still tends to reassure CPAS. Indeed, I do not know if many people who have worked with CPAS have given you advice. In any case, in drafting all that was related to the government agreement for social protection and the fight against poverty, it is important to take into account certain specificities in the work and a CPAS is not a city. I think your president, who sits on the steering committee of the Federation of CPAS, can tell you that. Moreover, the fight against poverty is an essential element in a democratic society. You are making a strong commitment and a strong commitment to say at one point that I am fighting poverty, not the poor. That is a strong political commitment! In fact, as part of your government agreement, you say that tomorrow, depending on the socio-economic measures that will be taken, there will be an increase in the number of beneficiaries of integration income. It still means increasing poverty. That is why I am telling you to fight poverty but not the poor. Of course, action will be taken. Complementary interventions will take place. Personally, I would have preferred, as part of a strong commitment, that you confirm the previous measures taken, for example with regard to CPAS, such as the measures to end the integration internship. The decision was made at the time of the full refund in the CPAS Head of Integration Income which was paid plus an amount to cover operating expenses. The same was true for the exclusion of unemployment as a result of the control. As you know, an old claim of the entire Belgian CPAS, it is the three federations that say it: it is the tens of millions of euros that the federal state owes to the CPAS. I think it would have been a strong commitment, not to say 'I'm going to do this, that and that', but just to confirm the previous decisions that had been made. I've been looking, I've been looking, I haven't found. I have a whole series of strangers. There are commitments, yes, but there is a whole series of unknowns in terms of funding, and here I am concerned, not because they are included in the agreement, not necessarily what is contained in the budget table that you have given us, but rather what the press is echoing and what has undoubtedly enabled us to have the budget table. With relatively large decreases clearly: Social Oil Fund: minus 9 million euros in 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018. Decrease in the age for applying for the integration allowance: from 30 years to 25 years. 47 million in 2015. 141 million in 2017. I heard Mr. Borsus earlier, I'm going back. And the right to the integration allowance opened after obtaining the diploma or certificate corresponding to the level of education currently required to be admitted. Conditions waived when the applicant is 21 years of age. Less €15 million in 2015. This is echoed by the press. Maybe they're wrong, it's possible. But if that's it, it makes us not tens but hundreds of millions of euros in pilotage, that is to say after the implementation of the measures, that is to say in 2016-2017. I don't call it fighting poverty. I call it fighting the poor, too. That is to say those who are already in difficulty, you will make them "rather" and lead to reductions in obtaining financial means for those who need it. Do you know how much integration income for an isolated person is? 817 euros. And again in relation to that, Mr Borsus, we are going to go towards the EUR 1 000 which is the European minimum, but we must take into account all the other advantages that are granted, such as the Energy Fund, such as advances-rents, such as rental guarantees, etc. to reduce the amount of the allowance. So, what you're going to give with one hand, you're going to take it from the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u310	Mr. Massin, I know it's late. We know each other. I know your commitment to the Charleroi Social Action Council. I myself am a social welfare adviser in a commune that is among the poorest in Wallonia. In particular, I followed this part of the preparation of the government agreement. I naturally agree with the right if not the duty of the opposition to ask a number of questions as you do. Most of your intervention was built. You will naturally have the answers that will be provided in detail by the government to the questions you have asked. But what we can no longer stand, what we have been supporting for weeks in the press, for days in this Parliament, are the upuesque caricatures that you keep sending us to the face until every hour of the night. This government would fight the poor, make them "racker". But go further, if you want. You can go even further in the caricature. We also believe that, in relation to a government that is part of a plan to combat poverty, which is on the front line with regard to purchasing power - there is a whole series of measures that fight poverty in this agreement - we could make the effort to overcome those caricatures that you have been sending to our faces for days. That does not raise the debate. Ask us your questions! Go with firmness! Make your disagreements! Put your opposition on hold! But stop making us look like monsters!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u311	Mr President, it is two minutes in view of Mr Ducarme's speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u312	Yes, of course. Go on, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u313	I guess Mr. Ducrame's speech doesn't count then. I'm not done. However, I would like to remind you, as social fraud is being scorned, that a study of the SPPIS has been carried out. This is less than 4% in Belgium. On average, 1,500 euros. This is the reality of social fraud. I believe that there is no comparison with tax fraud, despite what was said earlier. Nor should it be said that a poor person, a beneficiary of integration income, is a lazy person. When I read on page 48: "In the end, when the envelopes are allocated, care will be taken to avoid the pitfalls to use" – agree – "and to inactivity". Do you think they're all inactive? Do you think it's voluntary that they would refuse jobs? You have the legal obligation of labour market availability for a beneficiary of integration income. When someone gets an integration income, they don't just have a problem with employment. He also has training problems. He also has housing problems. He also has problems with resocialization. He has family problems; sometimes problems of non-payment of maintenance. He's got insurance problems. The work that needs to be done is global. Linking this only to employment is highly reducing. This is what we are trying to do by section 60, section 61, through training; I am trying to do what is provided for by the law: to return to employment. But criminalizing that, I don't agree. If you want us to deepen the system even further, I would like to try to do so, but give sufficient resources! Real means. Increase budgets, beyond petitions of principle and simple "I will do, I propose". Finally, I would like to point out, for the electronic social file, that the entire CPAS, as well as CPAS federations, have voted against it. It's a breach of confidentiality, of the social worker's professional secrecy. Let us not criminalize the poor (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u314	Mr President, I would first like to thank all the gentlemen and ladies for their presentation. Indeed, the coalition agreement contains an ambitious vision of our health care. The government agreement is very ambitious, Mr. Mathot. I don't know if you understand that, because you talked about prevention that is the responsibility of the Regions. It states that structural reforms are needed to ensure the accessibility of quality care. They're all in there. It is of course essential to implement them in consultation with all health care actors. For example, we have indicated that hospital funding needs to be reformed because, for the time being, and you yourself have said, payments and financial sustainability are a lot of problems. The chapter does not just contain reforms. For the first time, health objectives are also being addressed. Mrs Gerkens, yes, the reduction of the health gap is clearly mentioned. This health gap, to which you referred, has not only to do with physical or psychological complaints, but is also caused by environmental factors. There is also an ambitious continuation of the eHealth strategy. This will speed up the exchange of information and the introduction of the patient's electronic file. In the coming months, I will discuss reforms in a sensible way in the committee and in the cabinet with all the stakeholders in the healthcare sector, and we will set clear priorities, such as accessibility, affordability and quality factors for maintaining our health care. For each measure, there is only one key, namely the impact of the measures on the patient. Health care is about the patient and not the other way around. So the only key is what happens on the ground and the consequences for the patients. Health care is also covered by the government's overall budgetary picture with a view to achieving a balance by 2018. This means that on the one hand we will have to make some savings, but on the other hand we will continue to invest 1.5 % plus inflation. They will not be blind savings; they will always be aimed at improving quality and accessibility. That is not a new recipe, it has been used before and we will deal with it very rationally. It was said that the government will respond to patients, but you will not find that in the text. Patients will be responsive to actively trying to maintain good health by preventive measures and health objectives, in cooperation with the Communities. They also asked what the savings are for next year. There is a proposal that will be discussed on Monday at the General Council. Out of respect, I would first like to await the approval of the General Council before communicating on this matter. In committee, we will be able to discuss this in detail during the debates on the budget and the policy paper. I want to respect the decision-making and consultation processes in the restructuring process as much as possible and therefore I will not make any statements on this at the moment. Mrs Gerkens, as chairman of the Committee on Health, you know that there is a lot of work to be done over the next five years. You can see that the whole section involves a lot of work and that there will be a lot of consultation. There has been no mention of Ebola and other matters here. At the same time, we must also be very alert to threats to our health from other continents.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u315	Mr President, in agreement with my colleague, I would like to respond to the various points raised by Mr Massin. As far as the scope of each other's tasks is concerned, it is a situation which is quite frequently encountered in the distribution of competences. I live it in another of my skills. I think it is healthy, in a government under the Prime Minister's authority, to get around the table and define the scope of responsibilities and working arrangements, on the understanding that the approach is actually to work together. Then I refute with the utmost firmness a number of terms used. In particular, I heard "hunting the poor" and "criminalizing poverty". For having participated in the negotiations and for sitting on a social action council for twenty years as a representative of a communal college, I can tell you that in no way have I heard anyone approaching, in any way whatsoever, such a conception of the fight against poverty. I go even further, I hope that there is no one in this House who can have an approach of this nature. Is it not for the fundamental dignity of a society to be able to effectively ensure that people have access to a reasonable minimum of dignity in their lives? For all the democrats, those who sit in this House like others, those who have committed themselves to the association, the social – they are very numerous in our country and I take this opportunity to greet and thank them – is this not a matter of the essential dignity of our political commitment? You're right, Mr. Massin. We need to look at people's way of life globally. We know we can't isolate a material problem. It is known that there are roots, social dimensions, mental health, socio-economic difficulties to consider. In the approach, that's quite correct. But I affirm – and I solemnly do – that there is nothing in the government agreement that departs from our will to lead as many people as possible on the path of dignity. You know the figures: 817,3 euros for a single person, 1 089 euros for a household. As far as the European threshold is concerned, as I said earlier to your colleague, Mr Delizée, the aim is to increase and pull the people concerned up. Let me now answer the questions concerning the adaptation of the framework between municipalities and CPAS. The passage you quoted – I would like to mention it – says exactly this: "The federal government will modify the legal framework to allow...". – Your question related to the obligation or not. It is well known that a link must be established with the Walloon political agreement, with the Flemish political agreement and with the Brussels political agreement. "Permit" is clearly indicated: there is therefore no obligation of any kind. On the other hand, I would like to stress that, on several occasions, in passages 47 to 51 of our agreement, which I invite you to read again, firm commitments are made by the government concerning, inter alia, the taking over of certain additional benefits, increases in income from integration. In addition, some passages indicate that specific action is planned, particularly with regard to child poverty, concerning the individual integration project. I would still like to respond to your assertion that "the government would have found thousands of exclusions from CPAS, as assessed by the FGTB or some stakeholders." This statement is not in the government agreement. On the other hand, the agreement reiterates the statement that "the government will allocate the means to the CPAS to cover the additional costs due to possible socio-economic changes". I think I'm done with it. If there are any further details, I'll stay tuned to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u316	Minister, I heard your answer. Thank you. I am sure that I do not attack you personally; I find you very friendly and have no problem. Moreover, from what I have seen, I have not observed that you are particularly involved in all the negotiations. Earlier, when it came to figures, I said that the others never gave figures. I have here the figures given by the Di Rupo government through its government statement: the overall budget for health care was set at 25 billion and 627,379 euros. Being more precise would be difficult. A growth standard of 2% and 3% was first expected. This 3% growth standard is not a figure out of the hat. It follows in particular the AMI law which stipulates that the budgetary target for one year t is equal to the budgetary target for year t-1 multiplied by a standard of growth of 3 % and by the forecast of growth of the health index for year t. In 2015, the Plan Office estimated it to be 1.3%. For the past 10 years, real expenditure growth has been 3 per cent per year. INAMI's technical estimates for 2015 are 2.84 per cent higher than the 2014 estimates.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u317	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u318	That's an average!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u319	No, you don't know the numbers!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u320	I can assure you that this is an average over the last ten years. As a result, the figure of 3% did not fall from the sky. I'm not gonna argue. Let's imagine I'm wrong, I'm sorry. I don't know the matter well enough. I'll hear it. I'm just asking you to let me know your numbers, tell me what you're hoping for tomorrow. I didn't get an answer. You're telling me we're going to have to go to an agreement from the General Council to get exact figures. I'm worried. You are asking us to vote for confidence in your government without telling us what you are going to do, without telling us what the health care budget will be tomorrow. On the other hand, I never mentioned prevention.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u321	The fight against tobacco and alcohol use, is it not prevention? What else is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u322	Therapy, ma'am. Alcoholic people, smokers have to take therapy, it seems to me. When I talk about dental reimbursement, it's not prevention. These are social security care. Excuse me. I think we misunderstood each other. My wish was for me to be told how we were going to do tomorrow to cut the social security budget. That's all I'm asking. You're telling me we're going to restructure, we're going to change hospital funding. I read the KCE study. Various possibilities exist. I read you wanted to make a mix. But the KCE study does not contain many figures. Again, I would like tomorrow to change the way hospitals are going to be financed. But I would like to know, in doing this, how much it really will cost the government. And then we can actually agree. If you explain to me tomorrow how you're going to look for those billions of euros, I can hear it. Nevertheless, I don't hear any numbers, and I'm really sad about that. You're also talking about consultation. I'm very happy about that. I mean in all your projects that you will each time go towards consultation – but a consultation with already existing figures. What will you say during these consultations, except: "This is the budget to which you are entitled, this is what we are going to arrive at. Point."? I don't know, since you don't give us figures, minister. Explain to us!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u323	Mrs Detiège, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u324	Mr President, in view of the progress made, it is already 5.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u325	Mr President, I would like to hear everything, but at some point we must respect the interventions that take place in a debate that has begun to give confidence to the government. I don't think I'm talking nonsense, I think I'm trying to add value to the debate. But to be cut off... what movie are we in? This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u326	I do not feel addressed, Mr Mathot.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u327	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u328	Mrs Detiège has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u329	Mr President, the concerns I have raised in my speech remain, although I will not repeat them all. Madam Secretary, you say you have to make savings. Well, I hope this will not be at the expense of the patient. We shall see to that in committee. We will be able to follow you for a number of years. Responsability is indeed not in the government agreement, but you say that you will actively take a number of measures together with doctors and patients. I am very curious to see how this will take place. I hope that you will not sanction people but encourage them.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u330	Mr President, I assume that the minister will provide additional information on the budget, so I am not going to intervene again on this subject. I would like to take advantage of the simultaneous presence of the Minister of Health and the Minister of Defence. As you said, Madam Minister, we have already devoted two meetings of the Health Committee to the Ebola virus to see how it is going there and what action is being taken on the basis of the competencies of Health and Development Cooperation. Mr. De Crem, for his part, has always refused to come to committee while the Minister of Defence has a role to play with the Minister of Health, particularly regarding the possible transformation of the Military Hospital of Neder-over-Heembeek into a type 4 hospital – therefore, of great safety. We have a mobile lab that has returned from the Congo. And the fight against Ebola on the spot needs, not money, but men and women who can help health professionals who are there to integrate discipline into the organization of isolation and protection of populations in order to avoid contamination. I hope, Minister, that you will agree to come to our committee to discuss with the Minister of Health how we can help Belgian health professionals. For it would be the least thing to guarantee them treatment when they return. On the other hand, it would be wise if you could put yourself at the service of a health policy in those countries, because the only way to protect yourself here is to eliminate the epidemic there.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u331	Mr Borsus, thank you for your various explanations. I understand that several measures are specified. I will therefore await your policy statement and also the budget. According to the press, we currently have 71.5 million euros less. I will see if your commitment is real, since you have spoken of a return of this money with additional means. We will see if you keep your promises during the budgetary control and the policy statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u332	Mr President, please excuse me for raising figures at this late hour, but I would like to make the following point to Mr Mathot. Mr Mathot, you are talking about an average growth rate of 3% over the last ten years, but that does not make sense. Indeed, over the last three years there has been a growth of 1.9 % in 2012, of 1.5 % in 2013 and of 2.2 % in 2014. So, if we now move towards a growth of 1.5 percent plus inflation, we will still be able to invest in innovation, in good care, in good accessibility and in good quality. Secondly, you are asking how we will restructure the financing of hospitals. This will be a great exercise in consultation with all hospitals, both university hospitals and local hospitals. Choices will have to be made. Not every hospital will be able to ensure every service for the following years. There will be regional hospitals for each regular treatment and hospitals with specialized services. Specialized investigations will no longer be possible in every hospital. This will be done rationally, reasonably and in maximum consultation. The Knowledge Centre has created a road map for five years. We will invest all the time, effort and consultation in this area. You ask how we will do that. Well, that is the path we will follow, and I ask for the cooperation of everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u333	Mr President, I am sorry to raise a debate. It is crazy in a parliament to raise a debate about figures and speeches! Minister, you have the figures for the last three years. I note that the previous standards were 4.5%. So, I've told you "over the last ten years, an average of 3%", I'm not going to go into an applied mathematics course, but over the last ten years an average of 3%. I just said that and nothing else! Let's not go in the numbers! I asked you to tell me what you were going to do tomorrow. I would like to know that in relation to the figures quoted by the Prime Minister, who said 1.5% and then made a real standard of 2.2% and then spoke of $1.2 billion. Personally, I would like to clarify the debate as to whether you have set a standard, the law providing for it. What was that standard? I would like figures to be able to calculate and compare whether we can continue to do the same service at the same cost. Because we can obviously increase the cost, but it will again be a blow in the citizens' portfolio indirectly. Increasing health care, each of which may be ill, means increasing the annual cost. I'd like to know what direction we're heading. We had given clear, accurate figures and they were included in the government statement and not in the next year's budget tables. You don't want to give them to me; well, I regret it!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u334	[[Mr President, I have heard the Minister's answers.]] But before closing this chapter Social Affairs, I would like to comment on a decision that is contained in the Michel government's policy statement. This is a decision that concerns us in that, in the last elections, we have all been confronted with the disarray of thousands of workers in the arts and culture sector. What I wanted to denounce is the decision on page 58 of this agreement, which states that there will be an assessment of the wrong arrangements that have been made, particularly at the level of the ONEM, following decisions by the Minister, Mrs De Coninck, which has caused an incredible disarray among all the actors, the performers, the workers in the arts and the cultural sector. In its statement, the government decides that it will carry out this assessment, that it will take note of a specific social status for artists and that it will finally provide an answer to all those who have worked and created in our country without having a status. It is a decision that is included in the government policy statement. Mrs Lalieux, we have been involved in discussions together, I know that you are also interested. I did not want to end today's debate without giving an answer to all those who were plunged into disarray by Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u335	Mr President, I did not want to get involved in the debate on social affairs, but I would like to take advantage of the presence of Secretary of State Elke Sleurs to address a topic that has not been much discussed today, that of equal opportunities. Indeed, equality of opportunity and equality between men and women are reflected in your government agreement in the cross-cutting themes. I really welcome this decision, but, quite honestly, I don't believe it very much. I want proof of this, even if only the content of our debates, where we have not dealt with this subject once. It is good to finish at 5:34 a.m. on this topic because this will allow us to reflect on the situation. We do not believe in it because in the government agreement there is no new idea, there is only the sustainability of existing measures. We do not believe that because your MR/N-VA government decided yesterday in the Senate to delete the Advisory Committee on Equal Opportunities for Men and Women. Should this be seen as a sign of your government's disinterest in this issue? We do not believe this because your government agreement states that the implementation of your equal opportunities policy will not entail any additional administrative burden. This is much more dramatic because the fight against discrimination, whatever it may be, involves monitoring, monitoring, accompaniment of actors, evaluations and permanent attention by the government to policies in the various departments. To achieve this kind of goal, it takes time and energy. How will you achieve your goals without any additional administrative burden? I am not asking specifically for an answer now, but I really hope that we will have the opportunity to address all these issues in committee. Not speaking in plenary really scares me! These various elements make me fear that the policy of equal opportunities does not matter in your eyes and is reduced to grief. Be assured that my group will remain attentive. You can count on our vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u336	Mrs. Winckel, I've known you a long time. It was indeed not discussed here, but there is a very clear chapter in the coalition agreement. I'll reassure you. I will ensure that the government pays very much attention to that part of the coalition agreement too, and I will be pleased to discuss this with you in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u337	Mr President, I wanted to go on with Mr Miller's speech: I think you will not be able to save your conscience with your speech alone. On page 59, we noted: "The government recognizes the artist's distinct status. The regulation will be evaluated, adjusted and optimized to avoid abuse and reduce the employment trap." I fear that this formulation will be in line with the policies already carried out under the previous government. You accuse Mrs De Coninck; we, too, want a lot of her. Nevertheless, we have discussed this subject in committee many times, in plenary on many occasions; we have tabled amendments and Members have always refused to adopt and deal properly with this subject, whether they are MR, cdH, PS or their equivalents in Flanders. All right, we'll have to work on this; we're the first to want to do it, but we'll have to do it differently than with a sentence like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u338	Mr President, I did not want to raise the debate with my point; I just wanted to make that point and point out that this government has finally decided to answer the problem of the lack of social status for artists. You just talked about my conscience. Don't worry about him, I'll take care of him myself! As for the decision that has been taken, we all know very well that it has been taken by Mrs De Coninck, without going through the Council of Ministers. She's the one who passed the measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u339	The debate on Health and Social Affairs is closed. We will proceed to the final chapter for this morning, Energy and the Environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u340	Mr. Calvo, be careful. I am also competent for the North Sea. Welcome, Mr. Tommelein. Madam Minister, you know that we have already talked a lot about energy and that our Committee on the Economy has already met many times and you know how important energy and energy security will obviously be for this winter and the next. Of course, we're not going to talk about the release plan here in the gallery. I think we will talk about this very quickly in committee and you will be invited very quickly. When I read the government statement, I think that... – and these are the theses of MM. Wollants and Clarinval who pushed the government to bury the nuclear exit permanently. First of all there is an extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 which will be taken over this year and it seems to me that the timing that is presented in this agreement, because here it is precise, is not only totally artificial but also completely risky for the security of supply of citizens. The security situation may be undermined, Madam Minister, as you are asking AFCN to make a decision within two months. It should be noted that the AFCN was already invited to the Economic Committee less than four weeks ago and that it obviously told us that it was impossible to take a decision to extend, even a few months at the power station, within two months; that it was necessary to study, that we had to ensure the safety of all. So your timing is totally artificial. Furthermore, Madam Minister, what Electrabel told us, who owns Doel 1, is that they would not even have enough fuel to extend the plant. So already what you indicate in your government agreement will not even be possible at the technical level. So, minister, I don't know how you're going to do it, and besides, you don't even talk about the investments needed to extend it by one year and a few months. And who will pay for these necessary investments? What are you really going to do with Doel 1 and Doel 2? You actually claim to want an energy mix, but I find it difficult to discover the energy mix in your government statement. First, you say a sustainable energy mix. It will be recalled that nuclear energy is not sustainable energy. It's an energy that brings a huge amount of waste. It's an energy that's dangerous. It is also an energy that is not an energy of the future. Let's remember why we're talking about a relief plan, why we're talking about a shortage this winter. That is precisely because nuclear power cannot guarantee our security of supply. Tihange 2 and Doel 3 are closed for security reasons. And Doel 4 for sabotage. How dare you bet everything on nuclear power when it is nuclear power that means that this winter we may have shortages?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u341	Mr President, I am well aware of Mrs Lalieux's speech. I just want to ask her a little question. What was the view of Minister Magnette when he went to Paris to sign an extension of all Belgian nuclear power plants with Mestrallet? Did you have the same speech at the time? Frankly, why such a change of speech when Mr Magnette did exactly the opposite of what you are saying today? Why did you change your mind, Mrs. Lalieux?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u342	Mr Clarinval, at the time we did not have two closed power plants for cracks. At the time, Mr.Clarinval, we also did not have acts of sabotage in one of our nuclear power plants. I would point out to you that at some point this Parliament and you too, Mr Clarinval, have voted to revise the law on the exit from nuclear power. You passed this law. I would also point out that the minister will have to come back to this Parliament to get out of the agenda that we have all voted for, and you too, in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u343	Mr Clarinval, of course, has a point. I told you yesterday afternoon it's okay to change your mind. It is better to change your mind and evolve than to fasten on flat tracked paths. There is even a very good reason to take a different view now than four years ago, namely Fukushima, Mr Clarinval, nuclear safety! If Mrs Lalieux changes her mind, that is a good thing. There is even an obvious reason for that. The great myth of the infallibility of nuclear energy has recently received firm dents! It is therefore very logical that Mrs Lalieux should take a different view today, and it is very unfortunate, Mr Clarinval, that you say today that you are still taking the same position as in 2008. Your thinking should have evolved, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u344	I'm going on. Apart from nuclear power, you have been claiming, and we have been claiming, for a long time, a stable climate for energy investments in our country. This is a totally legitimate claim. On the other hand, you claim this and, at the same time, you come back to a decision that we voted in December 2013, that is, the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. You come back to another decision, that is to say, the call for tenders for the construction of new power plants, which will create legal uncertainty for all investors here, which will create delays with regard to security of supply. How, Minister, are you going to create this security of supply with decisions that constantly go back to decisions made with the MR and the CD&V in this government? I'm really wondering. It is true that we have the impression that you are going to extend the other nuclear power plants by ten years. You don't say it, but it's been said by others. You can laugh, Prime Minister. You're not interested in nuclear energy; you're not interested in energy. It doesn't matter. It's five and a half in the morning; you can always smile. With regard to this extension of nuclear power which you do not dare to announce but which you are going to announce anyway, it will obviously be necessary, before any legislative change – and I hope that you will respect this for the safety of citizens but also for the security of investments – to see the potential of interconnections, the current and planned production capacity, the potential of demand management materials, the potential for energy savings and also the cost to consumers. Of course, I hope that all this will be done by independent experts, under the control of Elia and CREG, because there is little to say about these actors. When it comes to nuclear power, there are also provisions for waste and the dismantling of power plants. Not a word! We know that it will cost billions to recycle all this nuclear waste and we know that if we extend the plants, it will only cost more, first in investments in the plants and then in the dismantling of these plants and in the nuclear waste. Not a word! This is totally irresponsible. As in fact, there's not a word in your paintings about nuclear rent. Where will this rent be? At what level will the nuclear rent be? I don't know. I would like to conclude my speech by addressing the issue of consumers and prices. You know that the previous government regulated energy prices. Contrary to the will of some ministers, energy prices have been blocked, VAT on energy has been reduced, and there has also been a ban on break-up and exit compensation, which has actually led to lower energy prices. I congratulate you and thank you, Mr. Wathelet and Mr. Vande Lanotte. It is not the market that causes the reduction in the cost of energy, it is the action of the State. But the law in question also concerns the safety net. According to the government statement, the first thing you're going to do, Minister, is question this safety net. However, this safety net keeps prices right for consumers and our businesses. CREG, an independent regulator, has prepared a report requesting a three-year extension of the safety net. But you ignore the latter's opinion and you are going to question that safety net. What do you intend to replace him with, minister? I'm asking you. An invisible hand market that will lower prices? No. Minister, it seems that you are not committing yourself either – but perhaps you will tell me the opposite – to extending VAT reduced to 6% beyond 2015. You know that the law stops in 2015. However, you do not say a word about the continuation of this reduction after 2015. Finally, there is nothing about social tariffs and energy guidance for CPAS? Will you continue to fund them? Mr Clarinval, it has often been understood that public service missions cost consumers too much. Will these public service missions be undermined by the next government? As far as the energy standard is concerned, I agree that the energy price for companies must also be reduced. I ask that this not be done on the backs of SMEs and families. How do you intend to manage this reduced energy standard? I hope that this will be done in consultation with the Regions and regulators. I know, Madam Minister, that you like the word "concertation", but you make the decisions upstream. I have the impression that this government agreement was taken instead by thinking about suppliers and not consumers. I'll finish with an article from L'Echo.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u345	I'm asking you to finish, Mrs. Lalieux. You have already spoken for more than 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u346	For more than 11 minutes! It's a tragedy, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u347	No, it's not a drama.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u348	It's just energy. Mr. President, would you like me to sit down? I'll say it from my bench when I get back to the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u349	We'll see! Thank you, Mrs. Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u350	Mr. President, top time. Prime Minister, Ministers, Minister, I congratulate you on your new duties. Colleagues, this new government chooses not only the path of social regression but also that of environmental regression. The lack of ambition for the environment and sustainable development, Minister, is clear. This government agreement does not contain any quantified climate targets. While a European climate-critical Council is taking place in a few days, your government seems to be starting from a white leaf. The European Council next week is to decide on climate and energy measures for the period 2020-2030. This is no less than the road map for the fight against global warming and the European Union's energy dependence in the coming years, and this is fundamental. Since January 2014, the Federal State and the three Regions have been developing a common position on the measures to be defended at European level. The Belgian position is to support a European greenhouse gas emission reduction target of at least 40% by 2030. With regard to renewable energy, the federal and regional governments have agreed to defend a target of at least 27% by 2030. Finally, with regard to energy efficiency, a target of 30% had been accepted by the federal and the Regions. My group deeply regrets that these three quantified objectives are not included in the government agreement. The climate summit in Paris in December 2015 will be decisive in achieving an ambitious global agreement to combat global warming. The European Union must set itself ambitious internal targets to boost global negotiations. Indeed, how to imagine that poorer countries would agree to make efforts if the European Union did not make its way. Prime Minister, Minister, my group is asking you to be much more ambitious at next week's European Council so that Belgium continues to play a leading role on these issues within the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS Group also regrets that the policy on product standards is barely mentioned in this government agreement. This policy, which is a federal jurisdiction, has enabled the regulation of the marketing of products in recent years to protect public health, the environment and consumer safety. However, the government agreement is silent on the policies to be pursued in this area. And we deplore him. Colleagues, in 1997, at the initiative of the Socialist Party, sustainable development was enshrined in the Constitution as a guiding principle of all policies. With the Sustainable Development Act of 5 May 1997, Belgium was a pioneer in building a robust institutional framework. The many instruments provided by law to guide federal policies towards sustainable development are, however, absent from your government agreement. Why this mutism? It is very worrying for us. My group regrets the lack of references to the long-term vision for sustainable development that was adopted in 2013. We also regret that nothing is said about the Federal Sustainable Development Plan, which, in accordance with the 1997 Act, must be approved within a year. Nor does your government agreement refer to the consultation of the social partners and civil society through the advisory body of the Federal Council for Sustainable Development. All these elements give the impression that this chapter on sustainable development at the end of the document is more of an annex that should not be forgotten, to give a good picture. However, sustainable development is a major opportunity for economic recovery and the creation of quality jobs. This government agreement does not at any time demonstrate the will of the new majority to seize these opportunities in favour of a socially just transition to a low-carbon society. This is a missed opportunity, and we regret it!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u351	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, for the government, a modern and pragmatic energy policy consists of three equally important pillars: price, environment and security of supply. In recent years, energy policy has not led to an optimal balance between these three pillars. Indeed, Mrs Lalieux, while liberalisation made it possible to put downward pressure on the prices of raw materials in Belgium, on the other hand, the overall cost of energy, which includes the regional charges which are the source and the main cause of the increase in electricity, has increased over the last fifteen years, leading us from the lowest to one of the highest levels in Europe. In addition, there is no need to remind you, given all the debates held in committee, of the fact that our security of supply is clearly at risk today and that we must take urgent steps to minimise the risk of electricity shortages.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u352	Mr Clarinval, you are aware that if prices have fallen, it is not because of the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u353	Yes, I do! And competition. Dare to compare, Mrs. Lalieux. Mr. Vande Lanotte and Mr. Wathelet did. This is thanks to liberalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u354	No, I don't. It is thanks to the laws that we voted in this Parliament. It is thanks to the fact that it is possible to change supplier without having to pay an exit allowance. It is thanks to this safety net that you are calling into question; it is also thanks to the reduction of VAT by 20% to 6%. These are the reasons, and this is not the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u355	So "Try to compare" is a campaign that allows the market to give its full scope and lower prices. That's exactly what I'm saying. The contract is regulated by legal decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u356	Mr Clarinval, there's an article that came out today in L'Echo – it's good to finish early, we have the articles of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u357	I haven't read tomorrow's Echo.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u358	Well, I got it here. Mr. Clarinval, there's Mr. Christophe Brognaux, Boston Consulting Group, a good Liberal, you agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u359	It was he who demonstrated that the regional charges were exploding the invoices, in fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u360	Do you appreciate what this gentleman is writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u361	So far, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u362	So I keep going. He says, "I'm a market fan myself, but in terms of electricity, centralized planning is more efficient." Read it. It goes against everything you've been saying for months, and it shows it by A + Z. As you like it, I would like you to study it and perhaps review your notes, especially for the minister's general policy note in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u363	Mrs Lalieux, you are aware that market liberalisation has been decided by the European Commission. We have only applied European decisions. I want to remind you of the legal framework in which we are working and thanks to liberalisation, we have been able to observe a decrease in wholesale prices. Recognize it, it's facts. And if the bill increases, it's because the charges, especially regional ones, the green certificates, no need to remind you, blow up the bill. These are facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u364	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u365	Mr Calvo, you have entered into the discussion, in which you will have the floor later.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u366	Mr President, I would like to make a specific point on this point, otherwise the momentum is completely out of the debate. The two speakers each have a part of the solution in store. The downward pressure on prices over the past two years has indeed been due to the increasing number of consumers who have made their choice between the different suppliers on the market. That's for a piece of market operation. At the same time, there is also the safety net mechanism, in which context we have had a detailed debate about more extensive monitoring of it. Just like those two things put together, results have been achieved. The result is still too low, but results have been achieved. What happens now? There is nothing in the coalition agreement about either of these elements. The safety net mechanism is down. Also about the movements on the market, for example, the Dare compare 2.0, there is nothing in the coalition chord, rien, nada, schnoll, brol.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u367	Mr Calvo, I agree with the beginning of your speech, but in the end you confuse the "Osez compar" campaign with the safety net. How many times has the safety net been applied since it was put in place? Once. So don't come to say that it's because of the safety net that prices have fallen. The "Osez compar" campaign, which was set up by ministers Wathelet and Vande Lanotte, has borne fruit. It allowed people to change suppliers massively. The market has therefore been made more fluid. I therefore agree with your first intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u368	Liberalisation and all its great qualities can be said to have so-called reduced the price of electricity.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u369	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u370	Yeah, that's great. But what we forget is that Belgium, which was a producer country and exported electricity, must now import it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u371	I agree with you. I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u372	This is the great success of the liberalisation of the market. The great success is to now have a country that is forced to import with its risks rather than to export as we used to. With the price, this data is crucial because, instead of having people work at home, people work in other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u373	I would like to make it clear that there was an effective free market, but that that free market Electrabel in Belgium had the monopoly for a very long time. For these reasons, Minister Vande Lanotte has carried out serious interventions, so that smaller players, such as Eandis and others, could compete in that free market.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u374	But so that there is a cheaper market, so that the market is freer. We agree, Mrs. Detiège!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u375	In committee, the representatives of Electrabel came to tell us that they had a problem. They were presented with the problem of citizens who may be deprived of electricity this winter and the following winters. But they came with another problem: their profit margins are not high enough!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u376	On the gas indeed! Do you know why, Mr. Van Hees? Because the state subsidizes so much the most expensive energy, green energy, while gas is profitable all over the world, except in Europe, because there is unfair competition from green subsidies. Therefore, we are obliged to close gas-fired power plants that are profitable, because we have oversubsidised other energy sources.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u377	You are busy demonstrating the inefficiency of the market, thank you! In any case, the government's program fully meets the expectations of Electrabel et al., as they will have an extension of the operation of the nuclear power plants and they will be able to put their pockets on! Further on, I note in the government's program that "the government will create a stable and favourable investment climate..." thus favourable to profits. So it's perfect for Electrabel and other suppliers. They'll be able to raise their profits. On the other hand, little detail: we risk being deprived of electricity this winter as well as the following winters, because nothing has been settled on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u378	To address what I mentioned earlier, the government will focus its work on four priorities. The first concerns the establishment of an energy pact. Then we'll work on security of supply. There will also be the introduction of an energy standard so that tariffs do not derail as in the past because of the reasons I mentioned earlier. The government's fourth priority will be to make a substantial effort in research and development. Compared to the ambitious energy pact, as early as 2016, the government will ensure that Belgium benefits from an inter-federal energy pact preceded by an energy vision to enable the necessary socio-economic and environmental transformations over a period of at least 20 to 25 years; a safe, affordable and sustainable energy supply that is a shared responsibility of the federal State and the Regions. You are aware that this matter is shared with the Regions and it will therefore require good cooperation in order to implement this pact. I do not doubt the good cooperation of the Regions. When I read the Walloon ministers' statements, I see that they have a much more pragmatic approach than in the past. I have no doubt about the good cooperation of the regions in order to be able to implement this energy pact. In this context, it will also be fully based on research and development linked to the enlargement of the energy mix. They will be financed by part of the nuclear rent. Nuclear power plants are taxed, they earn money, while other energies must be subsidized. We will therefore use part of the nuclear rent to invest in research and development.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u379	You know how much we fought in this government to impose this nuclear rent. It wasn't easy with some parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u380	We were in the government and we fully agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u381	If there is a nuclear rent, it is because, and you know, nuclear power plants are amortized. It was the Belgians who amortized them by paying for their electricity.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u382	It's accounting.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u383	And it's normal today that there's a return. It is simply a fair return to the fact that there has been a rapid depreciation of these plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u384	We do not say otherwise. We agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u385	So don't say nuclear power plants bring back! They pay because the Belgians paid them!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u386	I agree with you. But I was just saying that nuclear power plants are being taxed; it brings money to the budget, while other energy sources need to be subsidized. Instead of having a cash flow, we've got a way out.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u387	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u388	Mr Calvo, I have not given you the floor. You have entered the list of speakers in extremes. You will be able to include this in your statement later.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u389	Mr. President, I'm going back. Here, we see a clear choice of a strategy to support important research and development in relation to renewables rather than support for production, which has been favoured in the past. We are simply applying the European Commission's regulation of 9 April 2014 on State aid for energy production? We are simply complying with what Europe is asking us to do. The Government's second priority is to do everything possible to strengthen our security of supply. Our debates in committee have clearly shown that there is a risk. I have, in my personal capacity, denounced it for a long time – just like the Energy Administration. Every effort should therefore be made to avoid a discharge plan. To remedy this situation, the Government will implement the Winter Plan and will also ensure that emergency generators will be able to participate more fully in the market. The government will extend the Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear units respectively until 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2016. It will help those TGV plants that are currently in difficulty to prevent them from being put out of service, as we will obviously need them in the winter. That's for the short term. In the medium term, the government will implement an integrated federal and regional energy supply strategy. It will be a matter of ensuring predictability in the investments to be made, because we have had to deplore a lack of predictability in the past. The government will diversify energy sources without condemning any of them, as no one can predict how technologies will evolve and in which sectors future discoveries will take place. That is true, as we assume, the next government is technologically neutral. It will restore the competitiveness of energy production units currently in difficulty – cocon units – and threatened with short-term closure. We're talking about TGV units and biomass units. The government will improve demand management. There is also a lot of work to be done in order to make the best use of this possibility. The government will speed up Belgium's integration into the regional electricity grid and will ensure a permanent monitoring of the impact of the release of nuclear power in 2025 on the evolution of security of supply and electricity prices. Finally, it will postpone the closure of the Doel 1 and 2 nuclear power plants for ten years, subject to the absolute condition of ensuring the safety of the installations. It is clear that the opinion of the AFCN will be essential for an extension of the said power plants. The agreement also explicitly provides for the removal of all obstacles to the construction of new production units.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u390	I'll have one more question for Mr. Clarinval to relax the atmosphere. Are you the minister's spokesman or the government's spokesman? Or are you a Member of Parliament doing an intervention? It seems you were always speaking on behalf of the government. It's just to clarify the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u391	I don't know if you know that, but the MR is the only Francophone party in the majority. So we have to defend the government, which I'm trying to do right now. The third priority: the government will work for effective competition in order to exert downward pressure on prices. The competitiveness of Belgian industry is deteriorating. On the front line, we deplore too expensive energy. That is why the government will set an energy standard. In concrete terms, the government is already committed to reducing the federal contribution on electricity and gas, and to abolishing the Kyoto Fund. On the other hand, it will not touch everything that is social, to answer your question. All components of the federal contribution will be scrutinized on a continuous basis, including the public components, so that the price increases can be clearly observed. I quote the fourth priority: it aims to focus more on research and development. For the storage of energy and smart grids, they will be promoted within a framework of technological neutrality of the diversity of research avenues in the field of alternative energies. The government will maintain excellence in research and nuclear safety. It will support the Centre of Expertise and the entire industry recognized throughout the world. Mr President, Prime Minister, these are the main energy policies that will be put in place in the coming months and years. This programme of action is positive and pragmatic; that is the best word for it. It will not surprise you, therefore, that the MR, the only French-speaking party, also supports this chapter of the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u392	Mr Calvo is not here. Mr Wathelet has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u393	Mr President, normally it is a tradition that we do not intervene too quickly after the end of the charge. I've had a little interlude between energy and today's discussion. For waiting until 6:15 a.m., I think I deserved my energy intervention. Energy and environment, I will try to be brief! I am concerned about the lack of space for the environment in the government statement. There is Lima in 2014, Paris in 2015. We still haven't managed to do burden sharing at the Belgian level. We still don't know how we're going to split this fast start and we're at the start of a crucial climate negotiation for the future. It is worrying not to see anything in the statement on this subject. The only thing in the government agreement is that Belgium will have only one environmental objective that is the reduction of CO2. This means that there is no longer an energy efficiency target, no longer a renewable objective. This is the only sentence mentioned in this agreement. Firstly, I do not think this is good and desirable for Belgium, but I am only in opposition and I can only say what I think is good. Secondly, what worries me much more is to have only one goal. This is contrary to all that Belgium has been defending at European level for years. It is also contrary to Belgium's position that is being discussed in the DGE. What is the CEO? It is the preparation of the European Councils where the federal and regional governments are present. As far as I know, the four parties of the future coalition are all, by far or near, represented in this DGE. Those who were only at the federal level in the previous government or those who were only at the regional level. In any case, they are all present. That you have a different point of view is normal, but that you do not even have the same point of view as the one you defended in the CEO, in the former governments in which you were, is more worrying. In addition, in order to have an agreement for next week's European Council, I wish you good luck! This is not desirable and it is not what you wanted; it is worrying! As far as energy is concerned, I have already heard a lot of things. Minister, I feel like you're going to have a good time in committee. Mr Calvo will be there a lot. Don't worry, he's in the field. There's a lot of positive things. You have to say it! I'm not going to linger on it too long or I'm going to waste my time talking. The energy pact: we need one. I would make the same speech here or in relation to the regional executive. Yes! We must do everything, despite our political differences, to ensure that there is a common energy vision at Belgian level. There is demand management, interconnections, the defence of a true European energy policy. All this has to be done, I agree. I share the view of the Boston Consulting Group quoted by Ms. Lalieux. Yes, I think the market really has its virtues. I'm not afraid to say. But the market has its virtues in sectors that are conducive to a real market economy. The energy market today is not fully ready for this. The best proof that he is not ready, Mr Clarinval, is that between liberalisation and today, in order for there to be real competition, the state with its regulatory force has had to intervene. We had to block the prices. We had to remove the break-up pay. We had to create the safety net, which also consists of full transparency on the price. To make the market work, one could decouple the evolution of gas prices and the evolution of the price of electricity, because we had the safety net. It was because CREG could look inside the prices given and disseminated by the various suppliers that it was possible to make the market work by decoupling the price of electricity and gas. To believe or believe that the market has all the virtues in energy and electricity, above all, is wrong! Don't believe it! We have to make it work, we have to help it. We're not going back to a regulated system like we used to. I am absolutely not, Mr Van Hees sorry – for the good old techniques that are yours – because I do not believe it. But believing that it is the market that will settle everything with the invisible hand, especially in this electric market, is not true! We need nuance. For a centrist, it's easy. For a right-wing government, it is more difficult and for a socialist party, it is a little more difficult too. But here we need shade. And so, we will be attentive to it. We will also be very careful because one sentence in the government agreement concerns the reduction of the federal contribution. Reducing the federal contribution tomorrow without affecting social rates, you'll have to explain to me how you're going to do it. But I give you the benefit of the doubt. Last point: nuclear power. That's a nice debate, and he's going to take care of us, that's very clear. Mr Clarinval, I have evolved on nuclear power. I'm not afraid to say. I didn't understand why we were getting out. Now I get it. I swear to you, I understand. The insecurity in terms of security of supply in which Belgium finds itself today is due to nuclear power. You can try to explain it as you want, in the language you want, with the story you want to tell, if today we have a security of supply problem, that's because today, all our security of supply is supposedly based on the infallibility of nuclear power. And this nuclear is not infallible, it is bankrupt. You feel it, you see it this winter, it's now. How can we, in making a government agreement, say to ourselves: I see that nuclear power is not available, I see that it cannot ensure my security of supply, but what I am going to do is to keep it even longer? Mr Clarinval, I am not a technician, but there is one thing I know: that the reliability of nuclear power, its cost, will only be worse and worse. Stress tests will impose new investments. The dangers of having even partial closures in terms of time can only be more frequent. To base a whole policy on an extension of nuclear power is, in my opinion, a fundamental mistake. I don't have figures or tables, that's right. This is my deepest conviction and it is the conviction that I have after having had this fabulous, enriching, interesting skill. And then, lastly, I believe fundamentally in what the new Minister of Finance said. He said that creating an investment climate requires stability. For people to invest anywhere (Belgium, Flanders, Wallonia, Brussels) stability is needed. And here the signal of stability that you give to the investor is: one, all we've said about the nuclear calendar, MR, Vld understood... The advantage of cdH is that on that, at least, it doesn't change its mind. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u394	Of course we've extended Tihange 1. And, in my opinion, you will only be able to extend Doel 1 and 2 if necessary, on the terms that we have negotiated with Tihange 1. We'll talk about it again. I'm convinced of that. But the signal you give to the markets is: one, after having voted for the definitive closure of Doel 1 and 2, they are reopened. It'll be impossible. AFCN will not allow you to do so and you will not have the fuel. You've written it, but it won't be possible. On the limit, let's move on. You may still have naivety or good faith to believe that it is possible but it is not. First thing you do: one, you replace the calendar for the sixth time. Two, you're canceling the call for tenders. There are boxes, companies, multinationals who wanted to invest in Belgium – there are three who responded, Mr Clarinval – who have been involved with innovative elements. Maybe having a Dutch power plant coming to Belgium is innovative. I didn't think about it. Thanks to this invitation to tender, the market has given us this opportunity to have a company that thinks about it. Will it be profitable? I don't know. Will that be possible? I don't know. But we must think and dare innovation. You say we need to invest in innovation. They come with a new project and the first signal you give them after the nuclear extension is that you tell them: "Everything you've done, we don't want it. We throw him in the trash."
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u395	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u396	Let's talk about price, Mr. Clarinval. You asked me a question. With the call for tenders, there is at least one competition resulting in the contract being awarded to the highest bidder. What the government agreement proposes is not even a call for tenders, it is a capacity mechanism. You know what that is? This is what is applied to wind and photovoltaics. We pay according to what is produced. There is not even an ounce of beginning of competition! Mr Clarinval, the new nuclear power plant in England, is more than 110 euros guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u397	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u398	But listen, Mr. Clarinval!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u399	Your time is up, Mr Wathelet.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u400	He interrupted me.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u401	I jerked that off.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u402	One more minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u403	Another sentence, Mr Wathelet.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u404	It'll be a long sentence without a point at the end. Mr Clarinval, in terms of prices, gas will be cheaper. In conclusion, because I am honouring my commitments, I would say that these elements do not make us want to invest. The investments will not take place, but we will talk about them again. Prime Minister, I wish you a little more solidarity in your government than what Mr Clarinval has just referred to. The additional €550 million for the rent came from you and the MR in the government, the safety net, the call for tenders, all the measures taken with you in the government, it wasn't him, while your party was in the same government! Prime Minister, I hope you will have a little more solidarity than Mr Clarinval has just shown in this rostrum.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u405	Mr Calvo, I have given you the floor. You weren't there. (Protests from Mr Calvo) I gave you the floor. You can't sign up twice. Mr Calvo, you have chosen. You couldn't be here. You had other things to do. The Minister has the floor. (Loud protest from Mr Calvo) Mr Calvo, that's enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u406	Mr Calvo, you will have plenty of time to express yourself at length in committee when we meet, a committee duly chaired by Mrs Lalieux. It'll be great! It's 6:30. The speakers gained the right to say a few words after having waited long, for some even more than others, and as calmly as possible. I'm busy immerse myself in these subjects and what do I notice reading retroacts and getting into concepts? That it is a very interesting subject on the intellectual level, in which one can return the concepts as one wants! You can play with all the legos and depending on the angle of attack, you can say one thing and its opposite. I would like to say a few words about our convictions, which form the basis of this government agreement. What about security of supply? Is she under threat? Of course she is! You know that, and you know why, since you were involved in this situation. And all the energy players, from Elias, Electrabel, Fluxys, agree that there is a serious risk of shortages for next winter and those that will follow. What are the instruments put in place by the previous government to counter this situation? These are instruments such as imports, the strategic reserve, State measures to reduce consumption in infrastructure, the relief plan. Unfortunately, however, these instruments are no longer sufficiently robust in the face of the risk involved. And this risk has worsened – it falls well for some of you, it is part of your argument – by the sabotage of Doel 4, the arrest of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 due to tank microcracks. As a result, the impact on the situation is even more serious. This impact would not have been as serious in our energy market if it had not been seriously affected, whether you wanted it or not, by the regional policy of the previous two governments. And some members of the government who are here have been particularly familiar with the effects of this regional policy, has it not, Minister Borsus? I would like to recall, because finally both the CDH and the PS are involved in this situation, that Mr Magnette, who was Minister of Energy before the sabotages negotiated and signed with Mr Mestrallet the extension of at least ten years of three nuclear power plants. I repeat your arguments, which are to say the following. Yes, we have changed our minds because of security elements; yes, you fill your pockets because you sign with the powerful ones who are in the hands of the nuclear sector. Yes, we have changed our minds and we are closing some plants and you want to extend them, but precisely because closing them before there are security issues leads to a supply difficulty. Renewable energy, which is expensive for the state and the regions, means that supply does not exist when we need it. This is the background of the story, in any case, that's what I thought I understood the first elements of which I became aware. At some point, it will be necessary to break out of hypocrisy and manipulation of concepts in order to realize it. I come to other elements such as interconnections. With a view to achieving an internal energy market at European level, the government will ensure that transmission system operators contribute to the development of strategic and interconnected energy networks, allowing for more capacity and exporting our surplus abroad, when we have one. The lines to be developed would be as a priority those towards Germany and Holland. Not France because it will probably not be able to export to Belgium more than it has already done. It is necessary to either double the lines or place additional cables on the existing structures. As far as the energy standard is concerned, it is an indicator used to compare our electricity bill with that of our neighbours and to see what the items that make it inflate, in particular the public components that we talked about. The problem comes mainly from production at the regional level. This will allow for an objective determination of the respective responsibilities of the regional and the federal government in increasing costs. This is the whole issue of working with the federated entities, which I heard it had started a long time ago, as if it had been finalized. However, I note that today, eight days before an international summit, there is still no final agreement between the Regions and the federal government. They'd come to blame me for that. I will work as quickly as possible to meet with the federated entities in order to finalize this agreement and ensure that we finally have what you have not been able to complete so far. I'm not saying I'm gonna make it in eight days, and it's not my fault, but I'm gonna do everything for it. What about the price of energy? Over the last ten years, the Walloon government's energy policy – I'm talking about the one I know well and the most catastrophic – has proved to be a real fiasco. According to the Walloon energy regulator, the cost of electricity to the average consumer increased by 54% between 2006 and June 2013. A study by the Boston Consulting Group, published in June 2013, predicts that, on an unchanged policy basis, it will increase by another 40% by 2030, an increase of 250 euros per household. The impact of this policy on the European economy is reflected in massive redundancies, relocations and large investments outside the European Union. The situation in Wallonia is worse than that of its close neighbours, who, however, also suffer the harmful effects of European energy policy. Many studies appear in this field. Tables exist, which I have been able to consult and which I am analysing, which illustrate the stalling of Wallonia vis-à-vis our close competitors. They clearly show that electricity is more expensive in Belgium than in other countries, that it is more expensive in Wallonia than in Flanders, that the cost of raw materials has fallen slightly over the last three years and that what explains their bid in Wallonia is taxes. That is the current situation. To lower prices, the federal government is working on three tracks. First, reduce the federal contribution on gas and electricity. We don't touch the social components, there are protected clients because they are poor. So, we don't touch CPAS, but we're suppressing what's useless, like the Kyoto Fund. Secondly, working with the Regions to reduce the excessive CO2 reduction targets for 2020: 37.9%, instead of the 20% required by the European Commission, is that not a little too much? Minister Paul Furlan recently made statements to that effect. Gradually reduce public support for offshore wind turbines. This is included in the agreement. With regard to the safety net and its removal by 31 December 2017, this point is quite complex, and everyone agrees. Everyone is working to use the concepts that make up this complexity to say one thing and its opposite. To put it briefly, gas and electricity suppliers indexed their cost prices to the price of the oil barrel. It made sense as long as these courses were parallel. With the complexity of the market, they were no longer evolving in the same way. And Mr Vande Lanotte, of course, has removed this indexation. As a result, suppliers calculated other tariff formulas following the fairly volatile stock exchange prices. A so-called "safety net" mechanism was then put in place to regulate these tariff formulae. Why do we want and why should this safety net be removed? Because we think it's useless. It was used and activated once. Because there are already laws that prohibit cartels and unfair terms and because this safety net gives the CREG a power to fix and freeze prices limiting suppliers' freedom. And finally, because it kills the diversity of tariff formulas. As far as the environment is concerned, Mr Calvo, you will have the opportunity to intervene in committee until more thirsty. We have a government agreement on the environment and climate that is a little richer, a little more fleshy than you claim. What are the climate measures? As has been said, an ambitious, effective and realistic policy at the time of Belgian stance on European and international policy. The setting of a single EU target per Member State, that of greenhouse gas emissions. Renewable energy and energy efficiency targets should be seen as means. These objectives, when considered to be ends in themselves, sometimes lead to damage to the competitiveness of our enterprises. The government will examine the effectiveness of the current policy and try to limit the impact on the competitive industry internationally. A reduction in CO2 emissions and energy costs as part of the rationalisation of housing and the optimisation of energy efficiency in public buildings. And in various areas such as taxation, biofuels, bicycles, product standards, federal energy efficient public buildings and railways, the government will support the Regions in their climate policy as well as in their atmospheric policy and will pursue the finalization of this agreement, which I mentioned earlier and which is more than urgent between the Federal and the Regions. I'm done for today. It's now 6:42. I imagine that I have been able to give, and I hope, a start on the direction and explanation of the government agreement, which I shall prolong, be in some cases, very quickly in committee so that I can have a long dialogue with all of you and, as I know he knows how to do and that he likes to do so, particularly with Mr Calvo. Thank you, Mr President, thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u407	Mr President, Madam Minister, excuse me, but I would like to add a few words. As you said at the beginning of the intervention, energy is a very complex matter. We can therefore understand that there is not yet a perfect mastery of the whole. On the other hand, what I don't want to hear is that you're calling us hypocrites. At one point, you say the sabotage of a reactor works for us. I think here, with the government, you have to take on the idea that you want to give everything back to nuclear power and extend nuclear reactors. This is an ideological step; you must take it. Don't say, especially not, that the fact that three power plants don't work is helping us. No, it doesn't help us. We would have liked safety in nuclear power plants; that is not the case. We would have liked nuclear power to be reliable; that is not the case. We would have liked you to take on your positions; neither is that. It's ideology: you want to keep nuclear? You
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u408	Keep it, but assume it and don't call us hypocrites.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u409	Mr President, first of all, our position is quite pragmatic. So you do not accept the reproaches we make to you; we will discuss them later. Secondly, security of supply is at this price: a realistic policy. On the other hand, the position you are defending is strictly ideological. You see that, in reality, this policy breaks the face. So we have to make decisions at some point. It bothers you, but the quality of life of every citizen is at stake; this government assumes, contrary to what you claim.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u410	"Casser la figure "means drop "sticks," "kapots," "hooks," "hooks," "hooks," "hooks," "hooks," "hooks," "hooks," "hooks," "hooks," "hooks," "hooks," "hooks," "hooks," "hooks," "hooks," "hooks," "hooks," "hooks," "hooks," Haven't you read the papers in the past week, Mrs. Marghem? What's not working right now? Target 3, Tihange 2, Target 4. What energy model casse la figure? Votre modèle énergétique, votre energy nucléaire! What is pragmatic about wanting to be a champion of nuclear energy? What is pragmatic about more than 50% of nuclear energy? What is pragmatic about kicking the only certainty there was in this country, in particular that there was no new nuclear power station? There is nothing pragmatic about that, which is one of the many dogmas in this coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-10-15-54-plenair-ip010x.u411	We can conclude the work here. I have two further announcements: there will be a Conference of Presidents at 13.30 p.m. and we will resume the plenary session at 14.15 p.m. Have a nice night. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 16 October 2014 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 16 October 2014, at 2.15 p.m.
