ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u2	Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the work. I put a question to Minister Jambon this morning. Just before the meeting, I heard that the Prime Minister would reply instead of the Minister of the Interior. I wonder why. The Home Secretary is here. I would insist that I should be able to put my question to the Minister. It's about statements he made himself. I have already read the Prime Minister's statement on this in the paper. I do not think it is your intention to give the impression that Minister Jambon cannot, may or dare to answer in this case. Surely he's man enough to defend his own statements. I would therefore ask you to maintain my question to the Minister for the Interior and not to be answered by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u3	Three cases, Mrs. Pas. For starters, and aside, usually the question is reversed. They usually ask the Prime Minister to answer, not the Minister of Trade. Secondly, if the government asks to speak, I am obliged under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to allow it. Thirdly, if the Prime Minister considers that, in certain questions put to some members of his government, the whole government has been addressed and he responds on behalf of the whole government, then I will of course not prevent him from doing so. Hence the merger, because there is a serious suspicion that the issues are completely similar.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand we have the citizens who will be faced with an index jump; we have the workers whose wages are frozen for two years; we have the middle class whose purchasing power is in dull. All citizens are going to drink! You know that, we know that. On the other hand, we have the bosses who, thanks to your Minister of Public Enterprises, will regain their freedom to pay. It's a slap, Prime Minister, for all the workers! It's indecent! Prime Minister, I'm going to ask you some decent questions. Do you find the deplorable salaries of our CEO decent? Will you personally maintain the ceiling decided by the government of Elio Di Rupo? Are you committed to supporting our proposals that the wage gap in our public and publicly-owned companies be between 1 and 20? This is about social justice. Prime Minister, what do you confirm or what are you going to question here in plenary? Do you confirm the words of the Minister of Mobility who says that she will not remove the CEO's salary cap? Do you confirm what your Minister of Public Enterprises said that he will let the compensation committees do? That is what he told us during our discussions in the Committee on Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, my question is with Mrs Lalieux. The Minister of Public Enterprises, in his speech on Tuesday, announced that he was deploring the remuneration of top managers. We are being questioned, as Mrs Lalieux said earlier. Everyone is subject to budgetary effort and top managers would not be subject to it! Moreover, this budgetary effort is non-negotiable for the population. For example, index jump is non-negotiable. Here, for the salaries of top managers, we will see on a case-by-case basis, depending on the situation, the skills, the responsibilities. Here too, we do not fully agree with that. Prime Minister, we ask you how your government positions itself on these issues. If not, what initiatives will you take to ensure that public enterprises and top managers also participate in the efforts required of the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u6	Prime Minister, you certainly did not hear that when the media reported on your minister's decision to defuse the salaries of top managers, a huge rumor was born in Belgium; not in the circles you frequent, but in the workshops, in the construction sites, in the public administrations. People stopped working and offended themselves with this decision. It is not surprising from Liberal ministers who want to apply private revenues to the public. We know your theories about meritocracy. I'll give you an example. Do you know which is the top manager who had the highest salary in the private sector in 2007? This is a certain Jean-Paul Votron. Do you know how he justified his salary? He compared herself to Justine Henin, the tennis player, and said, "When you have exceptional talents, you are entitled to exceptional remuneration." We know where these exceptional talents led! We know that Fortis collapsed the following year, in 2008. This is where these exceptional talents lead, Prime Minister. You will tell us whether you intend to follow your minister or not. Count Lippens had chosen Jean-Paul Votron as a mercenary to pursue his policy of profit. Your Minister, Mr. De Croo, wants to set up at the head of public companies heavily paid mercenaries who will have the function of breaking public services, privatizing them. Prime Minister, at the PTB, we will not admit it!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you. Indeed, this morning you managed to organize a press conference where the government spoke with one voice. Of course, the context is not the press conference, but rather the difficult and painful problem of the wages of most of the population. This is why, in this context, the issue of the salaries of senior managers of public enterprises is becoming even more important. The government agreement announces – in all letters – that it will reflect on "an active management of participations", which can be interpreted as a certain willingness to get rid of various state participations in public enterprises. This decision would have consequences for workers and users on public service missions, including the universal service of the postal service. On the occasion of the renewal of several CEO mandates, the previous government had not enacted a law, but had imagined an ambitious policy, unfortunately built on sand, which was therefore hardly sustainable. We're seeing him today. The first episode took place on Tuesday afternoon. Mr. De Croo, minister responsible for Belgacom and bpost, said: "No interference. I have total confidence: all power to the boards of directors" – not to the people! This implies for this first episode: "I blow up the ceiling established earlier". The second episode takes place the next morning. Ms. Galant said that she disagreed with Mr. De Croo, that she will keep the commitments, that she will respect the ceiling. The third episode still concerns Mrs Galant, the afternoon of the same day. She points out that, finally, after thinking about the noontime – she was at the palace – she returns to her morning words. My questions are simple: is there a single and definitive position of the government? Is a special Atoma notebook dedicated to each of the following government members whether the company is listed on the stock exchange or not? Is a privatisation agreement hidden, which would justify ex post facto the laissez-faire advocated by Mr. From Croo and his friends?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we discussed the budget in various committees this week. We learned that there will be no cayman tax in 2015 and that the bank tax will be referred to the Greek calendar. In addition, your Deputy Prime Minister states that the wage ceiling for Belgacom and bpost will be removed. Ladies and gentlemen, for those who are new here, this is a wage ceiling of EUR 650 000 for these companies. That's not less of a paycheck. Mr De Croo, a postman would have to work for 35 years... On the one hand, the government wants a wage jump upwards for the bosses, on the other hand, it wants an index jump and a wage freeze for the working people. I am looking at the CD&V colleagues: have you received a better example of the matthew effect? For the liberals and N-VA-ers: he who has will get even more. Mr Verherstraeten, if you have a better example, I challenge you to give it to me. Mr Michel, I was also surprised that Minister De Croo said that as a competent minister he does not wish to interfere in its management, but refers to the board of directors. You do not want to interfere with the wages of the CEOs, but at the same time the government has to deal with the wages of all working people, because they have to save and turn them in. Mr Prime Minister, do you agree with the statements made by Minister De Croo or are you distancing yourself from them and do you think it is a non-subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is regrettable that this Parliament is finally becoming a place of intoxication of opinion. [[Hilarity on socialist benches]] Indeed, I am surprised by a number of comments made here by the members of the opposition. But maybe they didn't read the government agreement. Perhaps they have not seen that the chapter on public enterprises is filled with a desire for efficiency and morality. Thus, in terms of good governance, we advocate less interference. We do not want to politicize public companies. [[Hilarity on socialist benches]] That's probably what's bothering you! We want to implement a charter for the directors of public companies. By force, this kind of message becomes embarrassing for some. There is political morals on the court side and political morals on the garden side displayed by the Socialist Party. To convince yourself, all you have to do is see the salary of your former Minister of Public Enterprises! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u10	Will you continue to give lessons when you do not apply them? Hide that salary, Mrs. Onkelinx, you wouldn't know how to see! (...): Demagogue! Come to your question!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u11	Calm down! A little calm! This is necessary for one to understand. Yes, Prime Minister, the majority of us are tired of being caricatured. We are tired of seeing the government agreement as transvestite. Thank you, Prime Minister, for restoring the truth!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I will try to be very clear on this point. Over the last few days and weeks, even yesterday, I set out a strategy to systematically create and organise misunderstandings. I shall be very clear on three points. Firstly, as Alexander De Croo said, our coalition agreement clearly has the political will to respect the autonomy of autonomous public enterprises. That's a political choice. In this respect, we are very clear in our coalition agreement. For the federal government, it is not a question of systematically interfering with the management of the bodies of autonomous public enterprises. We have put in place a number of instruments to ensure good governance. I believe that we must all be mobilized, on both sides of this House, the majority and the opposition, to favour good governance in our autonomous public enterprises.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u13	May I ask that the bleachers be cleared?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u14	Mr President, I would like to continue my speech. I will certainly not be destabilized by such initiatives. [[Applause]] The second point concerns wages. We are really clear about wages. We want sobriety. We want everyone to be exemplary. The government's choice is to implement the guidelines that were decided by the previous government, which sets out a number of modus vivendi, rules in terms of wages for the bosses of autonomous public enterprises. These rules will be fully respected by this government without any ambiguity. Finally, third point, I would like to tell you that all this is still a little bit of the storm in a glass of water because we know that, in the short and medium term, there is no vacancy in the functions of bosses of autonomous public enterprises. I therefore hope from the bottom of my heart that this Parliament will be able to concentrate a little less on sterile polemics, on attempts to destabilise and caricature and a little more on the essential subjects which correspond to the recovery of the country, the creation of activities and jobs. This is the battle we want to wage!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am very calm. I was very calm in committee. I'm not caricatured here. It seems to me that we are asking ourselves fundamental questions. At one point, we want to cap the wages of the employers of public enterprises to €290,000. If this is not included in a law, it is because, in the previous government, the Liberals never wanted to make a law on CEOs. It's a first thing. A second thing, you ask for sobriety in relation to the opposition. They say it's poisoning. There's no poisoning! And sobriety is first and foremost applying it to our bosses, CEOs and ourselves. We need to set an example. Prime Minister, there is no poisoning. When, in committee, we hear what Mr. De Croo, that does pose a question. When Mrs Galant, the next day, feels compelled to say the opposite, questions arise. Intoxication and destabilization, you create it. When you say that you are going to get 100 million euros from the banks and that nothing is on the budget, you wonder who is intoxicating and caricature! It's not us! It's you!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u16	Mr President, we are talking about public companies, i.e. companies that operate with taxpayers' money. Let's know reason keep and let's not work with double standards! In public companies, control must also be exercised at the level of the salaries of top managers. Also, it seems to me that imposing a ceiling is not at all a luxury vis-à-vis top managers.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u17	Prime Minister, I note that your Minister, Mr. De Croo, was very clear in his remarks. But both Mrs. Galant and you keep the blur. It is therefore important to draw conclusions. If I gave you a counter-example with Jean-Paul Votron earlier, I will now take a positive example. Professor Englert, Nobel Prize in Physics, has shown that even in Belgium, we can do extraordinary things for the country and society, without absolutely wanting to claim an off-scale salary. This is another vision of society, Prime Minister! There are, on the one hand, profit hunters, who want profit at all costs and high wages to lead this hunt to profit and, on the other, there are people who are content with normal wages and who do good to society. That is the difference, Prime Minister! At the PTB, this claim is defended that the salary of both CEOs of public enterprises and ministers corresponds to a maximum of three times the average wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u18	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer, which I listened very carefully. I note that Mr. Ducrame himself answered his own questions. I felt at home the will to have the first and the last word. I understand, it doesn't happen often! But destabilization, Mr Ducrame, is the situation of a country in crisis, with austerity that is very much affecting our fellow citizens. For years, we had a CEO in Belgacom who received more than 2 million euros a year. It destabilizes a country! We need stabilization, Prime Minister. Of course, that's what it takes! But the best way to do this is to avoid that you are, tomorrow, very early in the morning, busy understanding what one of your ministers has said or not on a particular subject. It's to avoid these rules being built on sand. We need to build these rules on sustainability. To this end, a law is necessary, which must govern and not interfere. Indeed, there is a need for autonomy for public enterprises and for this capacity for autonomy to be restored. But, ladies and gentlemen, we will not avoid, for the future and to stabilize this country, clear rules of ceilings which prevent, today and tomorrow, indecency in wages such as those we have only known too much in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, during Mr Ducarme's show number I have heard more than once the word 'caricature', but I note that EUR 650 000 is considered normal here. Prime Minister, you are talking about good governance, good governance for public enterprises, and then you are using the word "destabilization'. Do you know what causes a destabilization? The policy of this government is destabilizing, requiring only the efforts of the working people. Visit the workers on the work floor and ask who is responsible for the destabilization. The answer will not be the opposition, but the policy of this government, which is one-sidedly harassing the working people.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u20	Mr President, I thank the Prime Minister for his answer. I would like to point out to Mrs Lalieux that if she really did not caricature, she would not have spoken yesterday of a liberal jungle. Madam, we are not in favour of a liberal jungle, just as we are not in favour of the kolkhozes. We are for the respect of a course of sobriety, morality. We are for the respect of what has been committed under the former government. Mr Di Rupo, it is a pity that there is no law, and we would have respected it. But if you didn't make a law, maybe it's because you knew that the exceptions would prevail and that at the level of Belgacom and La Poste, we're 650,000. It's a shame you didn't go to the end of the road.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u21	Mr President, I have asked Mr Jambon a question which does not deal at all with whether or not we are considering reforming Article 195 in the government agreement. I am convinced that Mr Michel will deny any secret agreement and affirm that everything is well. What interests me is what happened at this meeting of Flemish Catholic student associations. As Mr Michel was not there, unless denied, I think that the question should be kept at Mr Jambon's address.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u22	Mrs Onkelinx, I have answered Mrs Pas, who has actually made the same remark. First of all, I said that the question is usually reversed.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u23	It's not the same content.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u24	The contents are not the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u25	Secondly, in applying the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, I cannot prevent the government from taking the floor here. Thirdly, if the Minister, the Prime Minister in this case, finds that his entire government is involved, then it is his right to answer that question. So you have the opportunity to ask your question now or not to ask it.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u26	Mr President, I will ask the Prime Minister the question, since you are forcing me to do so. But that was not the rule under the old government. Parliament still has the right to ask questions to members of the government, to whom it wants, and it is not up to you, Mr President, to decide who answers it! So you're forcing me to consider that Mr. Michel is taking Mr. Jambon's place. Prime Minister, I will address you as if you were Mr. Jambon. I can't do anything else. So you obviously gave a lecture to the students of the KVHV, an association of Flemish Catholic students. According to the press, you would have said something first and foremost sincere about your lack of commitment to this country. If I have to summarize your point, every day you wonder if your place is in the Belgian federal government. I guess it must be painful for you. I'm sorry. In any case, know that the image you are giving of this government again is deplorable. But you also spoke to these students about agreements, it seems, obtained on the margins of the government agreement. We all know that the discussion on the revision of the Constitution will take place at the end of the legislature. The problem is not here. What interests me now is to know the truth. The truth, is that what you announced in front of the students, to whom you are talking about a secret agreement signed in Atoma notebooks? The truth, is that what you said at the press conference earlier? That you had a lot of humor and that you had made a nice joke to these students – yes, it's funny! The truth, is that what you said this morning on the VRT site? Your firm says on this subject: "These are not secret parallel agreements, but it is normal that practical agreements may have been concluded on the margins of the government agreement." I would point out that your Prime Minister said exactly the opposite. Tell me where the truth is? Did you tell the students? Is that what you said at the press conference? Is that what you told VRT journalists? This Parliament has the right to the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u27	Mr Prime Minister, I too would have liked to ask the Minister of the Interior not only because he made those statements, but also because, like me, he was active at the KVHV during his student days, the student association where he made those statements this week. He spoke, among other things, of secret atoma writings with agreements on a Constitutional revision. Those atoma writings would even be in the vaults of all four government parties. However, all the other government parties deny that this would be the case. I understand that Mr Jan Jambon has a lot to explain to his Flemish nationalist supporters: a government agreement that scores Community 0 out of 10 and at least five years of Community standstill. Because I don't want my fraternity brothers and sisters, the members of both our fraternity, to be lied to, I ask the following questions. What's the deal now? Who's lying? There are two possibilities. Either those letters do not exist, and those statements are pure steak and fried air with which the Minister of the Interior is trying to appease his supporters; or those writings really exist and you, Prime Minister, have a problem, because then your Minister of the Interior says that you and your colleague are lying. You have always said that there are no secret Community agreements. What is it now? As a Flemish nationalist, I tend to believe your statement. If there really was an agreement, I think it would be logical for it to be in the coalition agreement as well. I can see that you do not carry an atoma notebook, so I have no illusions that you would come and read the contents of it. I am counting on you to provide some clarity on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u28	Mr President, Mr Michel, first of all I would like to say how pleased I am that Mr Ducrame cannot be included in all the topical questions, since the Rules forbid him, otherwise the government should not even come forward and we should no longer ask ourselves the question of who answers. Mr. Ducrame perfectly embodies the lining, constantly. This division of roles may need to be agreed upon in the future. I come to my question, but I will present it as Mr. Ducarme. Two days ago, Mr Jambon regained his natural environment by joining, as Minister of the Interior and Security, the specialists of all violent demonstrations on the periphery and in all places where we must "break up the francophone". I am thinking of these friendly young Catholic students, nationalists who are usually on the rendezvous. I thought the Minister of the Interior was going to explain to them the right way to behave in society. Not at all! He gave them some confidences. I should like to add that I do not really have a question to ask; I believe Mr Jambon. I am like Mr Ducrame: I think Mr Jambon has told the truth, and there is no reason to doubt it. This is what he said – and I quote –: "There are Atoma notebooks that each of the four government parties has. The agreements on the next revision of the Constitution are recorded." Then he said, "No, there is no Atoma notebook." It's true, there may not be an Atoma notebook, but there may be Exacompta notebooks or some other brand. I agree, too, and I think he's always telling the truth. When he adds: "It must be understood that I can show humour or cynicism," I think he always tells the truth. I therefore do not see why it would be necessary to question the Prime Minister. I think he really told the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u29	Prime Minister, I will not do the questions and answers, like Mr.Maingain. We feel a deep discomfort as a result of the actions but also the new words of your Minister of Security and Home Affairs. Remove the Belgian flags, remove the King's photos from his cabinet, even though a minister of the interior is supposed to embody his function, a regalian function! It is also supposed to embody the order of the country, the order of your country, Minister of the Interior. This is a Belgian Deputy Prime Minister who says he does not want to be. This is not all because your Minister of the Interior refers to these notebooks, which may not be notebooks, but notlets, footnotes, signed papers, placed on the side and of course not communicated, with secret details of the negotiation and, more particularly, those in favour of a revision of the Constitution. You are going to tell us, as you did earlier, Prime Minister, that these are rumours, that this is about the intoxication of the opposition! No, these are not sayings, these are the words of your Minister of the Interior. I also believe that these words are sincere, of course made up and become, this morning at a press conference, humor. Prime Minister, you are here in Parliament. You owe the truth to all Belgian citizens! What about these little secret agreements? More importantly, Prime Minister, do you agree that your Minister of the Interior, who holds one of the highest positions in this country, does not represent all Belgians, tramples on Belgian flags as well as the King.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to start with a quote from you: 'We will do what is always being done in Belgium, take decisions on the revision of the Constitution at the end of the legislature.' I am sure that will be your answer in the near future. This was also the case on 15 October, at the time of the government declaration. Then I have a quote from Deputy Prime Minister Jambon at a reading to which my fellow Members have already referred. I quote: "In addition to the coalition agreement, there are atoma writings that are in the vaults of four government parties. That's either cynicism or humor. It contains agreements on the articles of the Constitution which will be subject to revision. Maybe that's cynicism, too. He needs to explain. I think we will even be able to tackle Article 195 on the state reform procedure. That's what the Deputy Prime Minister said. These two statements are certainly the opposite. Prime Minister, in a parliamentary democracy, it is normal, and it is even necessary, to disagree. In a parliamentary democracy, it is also the case that arguments are discussed with one another, that a decision is taken afterwards, that a vote may be taken and that a policy is then pursued. However, Prime Minister, there is a problem if we cannot be sure that you, your Deputy Prime Ministers, your Ministers or a number of other representatives are telling the truth. Today is about this point, but of course it is about much more. That is the essential problem. If we cannot assume that we will get the right answers to the questions we are asking, then there is a problem. Mr Prime Minister, in this case only one of the two can speak the truth. One cannot say that it is both a little bit, one cannot be a little pregnant and one cannot have both the truth here in rent. Prime Minister, can you tell us what is going on with this Constitutional reform and Article 195, and who is telling the truth?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u31	Mrs Temmerman, first of all I must say that I agree with you: one cannot be a little pregnant. That's correct. [[Applause]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again I would like to send a clear message on this subject. We had this debate as soon as the government statement was made. We had this debate last week in the Committee on the Interior. Systemically, the government's response was exactly the same. So I will very calmly, very soberly repeat it to you. Mr Maingain, I would like to tell you, beyond the humorous moment for which we thank you, that it is not because you repeat lies that it becomes a truth. There is a government agreement that focuses on economic and social issues, that wants to restore the country's competitiveness, that wants to finance our social protections sustainably through the necessary economic reforms. At the same time, there is a political agreement between four partners in this government to say that we will carry out the reform of the state for five years, as decided. I may be of a gloomy banality in my remarks, and I beg you in advance to apologize. At the end of this legislature, as has always been the case over the last thirty years and in accordance with the provisions of our Constitution, the government and Parliament will have to conduct the political debate calmly, calmly and quietly on the question of the articles of the Constitution that may be subject to revision. No more, no less! There is no secret agreement between us! There is a strong political will to carry out the reform of the State for five years and to implement economic and social reforms to ensure that there is more employment, more activity and more funding for our social protections!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u32	Mr President, Mr Jambon, you, like everyone else, have qualities and defects. But I didn't know you were afraid, you were a coward, you didn't dare answer, and you had to hide behind the MR for such a theme. Your statements followed suit and you obviously lied, at some point. Can I tell you that a function like yours is not easy? I know her. In any case, it requires a quality: sincerity. You have to tell the truth and not lie. You are obviously uncomfortable in the office of Deputy Prime Minister of the Belgian federal government. Obviously, you are not comfortable with the need to defend our country: Belgium. Obviously, you're not comfortable when you end up in front of your nationalist groupies. Deputy Prime Minister, stop lying to yourself and draw all the necessary conclusions!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u33	Prime Minister, you are right in your answer, because this debate has indeed been taking place since your government took office. You say, along with all your government members, besides the Minister of the Interior, the same thing all the time, that there are no secret agreements. However, the Minister for the Interior, not unimportant, continues to contradict this. That is why he himself should have been able to be questioned about these statements today, but that is clearly not acceptable or dared in this country. Mr Jambon, I am actually surprised that you have found nothing better than atoma writings to appease your supporters. Atom writings and politics together always stay in a shady atmosphere. This has always been the case in the past, with Delcroix, the Agusta affair, the confidential agreements on political appointments, you name it. Community agreements do not belong in atoma writings in vaults, but must be in a coalition agreement. However, that was obviously too much to ask for. Considering the KVHV bondage song, that is slightly different for us, Mr Jambon. We work furiously, even where we have to, ave complitones!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, you will have to tell us that you are dealing with the essentials (job creation, economic development, etc.).), your ministers are dealing with something else in front of their constituents! That is the truth! That's what disturbs your speech! And I understand that it bothers you, because your litany is continually contradicted by your own ministers on a number of themes. I quoted the words of Mr Jambon or his spokesman. I didn't quote anything else. But the truth, you see, is that today you can no longer pretend to speak on behalf of your entire government on this issue. The major, constant fact is that you are continually contradicted within your majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u35	Prime Minister, the Belgians therefore have a deputy prime minister who does not want to be minister of all Belgians. And the N-VA works from the interior of the state to the dismantling of Belgium. You will probably retort me: "Nothing completely new! Nothing quite surprising!" But what I find even more unacceptable is your remarks today, Prime Minister. What did you tell us? "Circulate, there's nothing to see!" And on your part, it's either naivety or complicity!
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. In fact, you have stated that Mr Jambon is not telling the truth. I had pointed out that there were two differences and that they cannot be both true. So one of them isn't true. It's obvious now. However, I must warn you again immediately. After all, there is another problem immediately. During the debate, Mr Vuye said literally: 'You should know that I will clearly not tell you what and whether something is in the atoma writings.' Let me repeat this, because there is some commotion: you must know that I will clearly not tell you what and if anything is in the atoma writings. In other words, the secret agreements must exist. Mr Prime Minister, frankly, you say that Mr Jambon is not telling the truth and that there are no agreements. However, in your government or at least in a government party there is a completely different view.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u37	Mr President, Minister, the reason for my question is an article that appeared in the media this week. It concerned a conviction of the Belgian State by the European Court of Human Rights. A Romanian ex-con was awarded compensation of EUR 10 000 for inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. That is how it was formulated by the Court. We know that this is primarily about the state of our prisons and the way in which our interned and inmates are locked up and housed. In the meantime, the ex-con in question has returned to Romania to receive compensation for his stay in Merksplas prison in the course of 2012. A few weeks ago, as mayor of Merksplas, I paid a visit there, together with the governor of Antwerp, Mrs Berx. We have seen with our own eyes that the situation there is indeed poignant. The way people are locked up, the small spaces and the lack of sanitary facilities and toilets are states that are no longer of this time. Of course, it's not the first conviction. It's not news either. The previous government has also worked on this. The problem was also at the heart of your predecessor in the Buildings and the former Justice Minister. The new prisons in Dendermonde and Beveren, but also the forensic centers in Ghent and Antwerp are all part of the solution. The Master Plan II and the Master Plan III, which were drawn up to meet the further needs, are also on the table. They were also taken over in the new coalition agreement. My question is therefore about Masterplan II and Masterplan III. Following that conviction, do you intend to implement Masterplan II as a priority? As regards Master Plan III, the Court also asks for general measures to ensure that detention would comply with Article 3 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. Will you also adapt Masterplan III to those comments?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u38	Mr Wilrycx, it is true that for the umpteenth time we have been convicted of a poignant situation. Two master plans have already been drawn up in consultation with the Government of the Buildings and the FPS Justice Department. The FPS Justice is the client here, the Director of Buildings is just the executive. Those two master plans have been drawn up since 2008 and are being meticulously implemented. You have just listed a number of achievements here. We also continue with Masterplan II. When presenting my policy paper to the committee, I said that Masterplan III is also currently being studied. The research is now in full swing and soon we will decide to carry out Masterplan III as well. Building is not very fast, but in this way we want to follow up on this sooner or later to get out of that poignant situation. Masterplan II is in progress and will soon be decided on the implementation of Masterplan III.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u39	Minister, this is part of the solution. You're not qualified for the other cases. The provision of care for interned and inmates will also have to be improved. However, I welcome the implementation of the Master Plan II, in which Merksplas is included in the current judgment and we can therefore expect these initiatives. You're from the same province. Maybe after New Year's Eve you'll find time to check it out. You will then be convinced that there is a need for investment. In any case, I look forward to the investments that will take place there.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u40	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what Mr Calvo has said, my question is not called, but we are going to go back to the fundamentals instead of dealing with the gossip. For many days now, in the Committee on Finance, we have been discussing the budget, the report of the Court of Auditors. We are saying everything and anything, unfortunately especially anything, but the Court of Auditors' report is a good report because it helps us to have a good follow-up of the government's action and to make a permanent monitoring, as the Budget Minister says. We have criticized the index jump, the declines in employers' charges. The main objective of our government is, of course, to maintain and create jobs. In this regard, OECD reports commend structural measures. We have comments from the Court of Auditors which welcomes the fact that there are no longer too many one shot measures. And we did not ourselves quantify the number of job creations, but the Planning Office did. Today, we have a new element, which is the report of the National Bank. He announces that, on the basis of the measures planned by the government, we will have an increase in jobs of some 60 thousand jobs and he distributes these creations in relation to index jumps, downloads, etc. The National Bank therefore announces these job creations in its report. These are our fundamentals. These are really the elements on which the government's action must focus. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, does this projection of the National Bank seem reasonable to you? Do you think we will achieve these objectives? In its assessment, the National Bank estimates that the index jump will not cost 2% but rather 0.4%. Do you think that's actually going to happen? Finally, the National Bank's report places great emphasis on social consultation. Do you not think that this element of job creation is a positive element in starting a real social consultation with the trade unions?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u41	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, ladies and gentlemen, the studies of the National Bank are always very reasonable and very correct. It's obvious because it's the National Bank. You are right; I have asked the National Bank for a study on the effect of the measures decided by the government, particularly concerning employment and index jump. Yesterday I had the opportunity to discuss with colleagues in the Committee on Employment and asked for a reflection on the results of the National Bank. I also used a slide on which I pointed out that the National Bank has concluded that all the measures of our government will have a positive effect of 1% on GDP in 2019. For net exports, this is a positive result of 0.8%. The real disposable income of households is -0.4 per cent. The most important thing for employment, as you pointed out, is that there will be 59,000 more people at work, according to the National Bank's study. I hope that we can discuss the results of this study here.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u42	Minister, thank you for your reply in French. Next time, I'll ask the question in Dutch. I'm making progress, but not enough yet. I fully share your vision. We have a vision of the fundamentals. I would like to encourage the opposition to close the doors of its horror museum and put the key under the doormat.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u43	Mr Piedboeuf, I congratulate you on your Mayden speech! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u44	Mr Minister, one colleague and the Minister referred just now to the study by the National Bank, which confirms that these government measures will lead to 60 000 additional jobs and the reduction of purchasing power loss to 0.4% at the end of the legislature. The National Bank adds one but to it, in the sense that this can only be achieved provided that the margins created by the index jump and by the reduction in charges are actually used to make the companies more competitive and to create jobs. There is therefore an urgent need for commitment and agreement. It is therefore essential that social dialogue can be initiated. You are making a great deal of effort in this regard. It would be a little helpful if some of your colleagues and some government managers were to refrain from provocative statements on the matter, so that a serene atmosphere could be created for dialogue. Social dialogue presupposes equality between partners. One does not regard each other as opponents, but as partners. One takes each other seriously and is listening prepared. Those are the terms. This is now being tested for the first time in the opinion you asked for from the social partners on the royal decisions on unemployment and the SWT, on the system of farm-based unemployment, and on the time-credit. That's a first test. The time for social dialogue is pressing. These royal decrees should be implemented on 1 January. There is also an urgent need to agree on the index jump. So this can't wait much longer. A technical working group met last night. How'd that go? Have any arrangements been made for the future? How will you try to get the dialogue going?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I should like to open the door by underlining that restarting social dialogue is a difficult task. In the discreet discussions I had with all the members of the Group of Ten, both employers and trade unions, it was clear that trust between the two sides of industry and trust between the two sides of industry and this government must be restored. That repair isn't easy. I hope that every statement will contribute to restoring that confidence and not a step backwards. I think we need to work step by step to restore that confidence. Yesterday, in committee, we discussed the six royal decisions on time credit, runways, deployment benefits and so on. We shall now see whether the social partners in the Management Committee of the RVA can formulate a number of things in common. A first step will have to be taken with regard to the loose ends in the status of workers and servants. The government discussed this morning the welfare envelope on which, normally, the social partners should have given an opinion on 15 September. The government wants to create the opportunity for the social partners to look into this and to formulate a unanimous opinion on it, which the federal government will then implement. We must step by step restore confidence and see whether concerts, social dialogue, can be positively encouraged. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to carry out a socio-economic reform in this country, as described in the federal government agreement, then we need the social partners to ensure that this reform is sustainable. I'm sure of that. I've been trying to make that happen for a few weeks. I do not know whether we can do that, but I am convinced that we must do everything we can to get the social partners around the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. I appreciate the efforts you are making to initiate the social dialogue. I call on the social partners to come to the negotiating table and to make proposals there that will lead to results, so that the efforts requested can be effective. Everyone has an interest in social peace, employers and workers. Let them negotiate the necessary reforms. You have our full support in bringing these talks to a successful conclusion in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u47	Mr President, Minister, this government has rather ambitious retirement plans, and that is quite right. We want to ensure that pensions can continue to be paid after 2015, and that seems to me to be a more than praiseworthy objective. We could say that the ostrich finally pulls the head out of the sand. It is therefore logical that this ostrich blinks with its eyes, so suddenly exposed to daylight. One of the few issues about which everyone is concerned is the pension issue, because it affects everyone sooner or later or hopes so. Of course, not all the details of the plans for pension reform are yet known. However, we can see that interest groups are already fully and comprehensively communicating their effects. That makes sense in itself, because people want to be informed about such an important matter. However, according to the information we receive, interest groups are often guilty of what we should call appalling disinformation. We have seen notes which say, for example, to staff from education that they will soon receive EUR 400 to 500 less pension per month. At times, this was estimated at even 800 euros of pension losses per month. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think there is irresponsible panic-mongering. As a majority, we could conclude that there are no serious arguments against pension reform, so we can look at it positively. However, the matter is too delicate to proceed in this way. That is why I ask you, Minister, what initiatives are you taking as Minister to give the general public the proper scope of the forthcoming reform plans, even though I am aware that not all the details are known at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u48	Thank you, Mr De Roover, for the pertinent question. It brings us to the heart of the pension reform. Last Tuesday, moreover, in the Committee on Social Affairs, I stressed that the reform is inevitable, given the ever longer lifespan of the working population. Stand still would be irresponsible. More importantly, it would jeopardise the survival of our pension system and, in a broader perspective, even that of our social security. In order to safeguard the well-being of our children and grandchildren, it is our duty to take these measures, which will mean that our professional careers will last a little longer. That does not mean, for example, that we will ask a slightly older carpenter to crawl on a roof. There will also have to be no longer work in education for six or seven years. It will always be possible to retire from 60 or 61 years after a long career. Account will be taken of the nature and gravity of the work provided in order to be able to retire early. However, this will be done in an objective manner which I will determine in consultation with the social partners. Nor does it mean, as I hear, that the pension will be reduced. Not only is the principle of the career of 45 years maintained, but also a large part of the financial welfare envelope is devoted to upgrading the smallest pensions. Mr De Roover, you are right in saying that we are currently being overwhelmed with false information. I am sorry to say so, but that is often accompanied by a form of populism. Explaining the subject properly will be done in a pedagogical manner, so that people understand why the planned reforms are necessary and very well thought out. That is the only way to counter all the misconceptions about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I repeat that we fully support this government's long-term vision. It was high time: if the wound stinks, then one should not summon a soft healer, because that turns out to be amputation. However, the data subjects are entitled to correct information. It is no coincidence that companies and professional organisations give priority to their PR departments. Minister, I would like to ask you, and this government in general, to pay very specific attention to public relations in relation to this pension dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u50	Madam Minister, the government agreement states that the cost of medicines must be made more transparent. Yesterday we read that Test-Achats complains against two companies that are not transparent, Roche and Novartis. The first company has a very expensive medicine for certain eye conditions, the second a cheap medicine. The first one costs 800 euros, the second one costs 40 euros. That is a difference of 760 euros. This has cost the government 197 million euros in recent years. However, the independent Belgian Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine has carried out a study. "Evidence-based' is a term you often use. So, what's going on? The farmareuzen apparently make a deal and make deals behind your back, which requires doctors to prescribe the expensive medicine and not the cheap one, while the medicine for this eye disease is absolutely not a luxury product. Your spokesperson said yesterday in De Standaard that it is the responsibility of every company to apply for registration. I can therefore conclude that you say: 'I cannot do anything about this.' Madam Secretary, I'm worried. Which side are you on? Are you on the side of the lobbyists or on the side of the general practitioners and the ophthalmologists? Are you on the side of the farmareuzen or on the side of the ordinary citizens? My concern is that I have three questions for you. Firstly, if it is possible in the Netherlands and Italy, why not here? Can you take over their model? Secondly, what will you do to avoid fraudulent practices in the future? Thirdly, what binding measures will you take to make the pricing more transparent?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, with a public debt of around EUR 390 billion, everyone agrees with common sense that we need to save. Apparently, two farmarians do not share that view. They've had similar treatments for the same eye disease for years. The cheaper variant is deliberately shielded. The previous speaker pointed out that this is a difference of 20-fold, namely EUR 800 for Lucentis and EUR 40 for the cheaper Avastin. Both companies are financially linked to each other and apply a shielding trick. The cheap variant is deliberately not registered, so that doctors would only be legally covered for prescribing the more expensive variant. The company's taking over the profits. The patient's in trouble. Health insurance only pays back part of the injections by means, partly because of the high cost, while often more injections are needed. How is that possible? This is possible because pharmaceutical companies have the exclusive right to register the official indication, which is an unhealthy situation. It is now also leading to fraudulent practices in the face of social security. I therefore wonder whether such situations do not occur more frequently than in the present case, which has now been published in the media. Indeed, consumer organisations in Spain, Italy, Portugal and France have already complained. Test-Aankoop also lodged a complaint in Belgium. However, the problem was already highlighted by the Belgian Oogartsensydicate in 2010. It was the then minister who neatly put the file in her drawer and did nothing with it. Measures have been taken in the Netherlands, Italy and France or are in the process of being adopted. So our questions are next. Will you follow these countries? What approach to the problem are you pursuing?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u52	Mr President, Mrs Dedry and Mrs Van Camp, thank you for your questions. Maculadegeneration is a disease that affects older people in particular and can seriously impede their vision. She can even lead to blindness. Good treatment often means the difference between self-reliance and total dependence. There are treatments that are very effective, such as the medicine Lucentis, which is very expensive. It costs 800 euros per injection. Health insurance pays back up to 18 injections in three years. So it's not about one injection, it's about 18. Clinical and scientific studies have not been able to establish a demonstrable effect on the use of medicinal products for more than three years. There is therefore Avastin, a cancer medicine in a chemical composition not proportional but equivalent to Lucentis. However, Roche did not request the indication for macular degeneration. Roche is not prepared to register the product for such indications. The use of Avastin in these conditions is therefore per definitive off label; this means that the use of this medicine for macular degeneration is not included in the scientific package leaflet. It is true that only firms placing products on the market can apply for registration. This should be based on appropriate clinical studies. The Agency therefore recommends that we be extremely careful. They have questions about the methodology of these studies, especially with regard to the detection of low frequency adverse effects. Secondly, the optimal dose of Avastin is not sufficiently documented in the ophthalmological indication. Thirdly, there are no study results on the local tolerance of Avastin when used in the eye. The reconditioning of Avastin in smaller containers required for ophthalmological use gives clear risk dressings, both for the sterility and for the stability of the product. In short, there are risk derivatives associated with the administration of Avastin in its current form for the indication of age-related macular degeneration. For me, not only as a doctor but also as a health minister, that is a very good argument to be extremely careful, to take into account and take into account the recommendations of the pharmaceutical agency. Apart from this specific dossier, I would like to emphasise the great social responsibility of all companies, should it be noted that they refuse to have medicines and/or indications recognised, which would increase the amount of money spent by the government or the patient; that is millions that could be used for, for example, renewal and research into medicines that would benefit many more patients. The patient's wallet is important to me, but the health and safety of therapy are equally important. Competition does not fall within my competence, but of course I will ask my administration to follow closely the complaint from Test-Achats to the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u53	Mr President, Madam Minister, let us not be naive. We all know that Roche is not prepared to register the medicine because they made a deal with Novartis. That is known in the sector and, as my colleague says, that is not an isolated case. However, the evidence-based research I have referred to states that Avastin is good, and your fellow scholars have been saying that this is an equivalent medicine since 2010. We will continue to monitor this intricately.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u54	Mrs. Dedry, I congratulate you on your maiden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u55	Mr President, Minister, international studies have indeed demonstrated the effectiveness of Avastin. Whether that is reliable or not, we can discuss this further, but a first step would then be to invest in further research. What strengthens me in this belief is that in Italy the pharmaceutical companies concerned have already been fined EUR 182 million and that Lucentis' price has been reduced in Switzerland. Where there's smoke, there's fire. There's something going on. The government has the levers to tackle this type of malpractice. The Belgian government has already paid almost 200 million euros too much over the past five years. We ask that you seriously consider the approach of the Netherlands. That is where the exclusive right to register the indication lies not only with the pharmaceutical company but can also be done by the administration and the government can indeed approve the prescription. The KCE will present a study on this in February, which can help you to look at this dossier further.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u56	Mrs. Van Camp, I congratulate you on your maiden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u57	Mr President, Minister, we have heard from the press today about the letter from railroad boss Jo Cornu to the trade unions. In his letter, Jo Cornu puts the finger on the wound. If we do nothing, if we do not reform and if we continue to increase debts, the company will be in danger of going down, and a Sabena bis will be in danger. That's what his message comes down to. Such a doom scenario naturally wants to avoid everyone. That can't be the intention. SNCB plays a crucial role in our mobility. That role will only increase. Yesterday we discussed your policy paper in the Infrastructure Committee, Madam Secretary. We understand that you too want to avoid such a doom scenario at all costs. You have told us that you are in permanent consultation with the CEOs of SNCB and Infrabel, and that you are also in consultation with the trade unions. Your intention is to put SNCB on the right track in the short term. You have told us that you fall from one surprise to another. There is a great deal of order to be put in place. The railway boss shares this ambition and requires nothing more than the freedom and capacity to reform, to reduce the debt mountain, to implement a modern personnel policy and to manage the company commercially. In any case, my group gives the confidence that the railroad boss is asking for. We would also like to stress the importance of the social dialogue and the communication that must be carried out in the bodies set up for this purpose. I have three questions for you. Firstly, what is your response to the letter from Jo Cornu, which we have heard today? Secondly, how does the letter relate to the policy paper? Thirdly, will you give the space and the force of impact that the railroad boss asks of you?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, if trains were to be more efficient and faster by means of a punitive statement on SNCB, we would no longer have a problem of punctuality today. Not a day can pass or there are problems and comments about that public body: about punctuality, about broken overhead lines, abolished trains, bad communication, strikes and whatnot. There is concern about the new transport plan, there is concern about the mountain of debt, there is concern about rising debts and about the budgetary framework that is being put forward very tightly. This morning Jo Cornu did a little bit more by talking about a possible Sabena scenario. Indeed, as my colleague has pointed out, he was not the first to do so. You, too, spoke yesterday when discussing your policy paper about a Sabena scenario if not all the abuses that would remain were to be resolved. Madam Secretary, comparing to a Sabena scenario is not nothing. The same applies to Mr Cornu. On Monday we happened to see footage from that period in a TV broadcast. It must be said that we do not want to take account of such a scenario when it comes to SNCB. I sometimes start to feel that all doomsday scenarios and the whole negative atmosphere around SNCB are at risk of becoming a self-fulfilling prophecy. We have to be very careful not to talk the SNCB into it. However, there are a lot of travellers who use the train daily and generally satisfied to get to their destination. We must not lose sight of the positive side of the public sector in SNCB. My fundamental question is therefore whether you still believe in SNCB and the role that SNCB must play in our future mobility policy. Do you still believe in that for the future? That is an important fundamental question. Secondly, the dialogue between management, the government and the trade unions must not take place via the media, but around the table. In what way will you create a serene debate, where the various partners will return to the table and we will find solutions to the huge challenges we face?
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jo Cornu kept to the promise that trade unions ACOD, CGSP and ACV Transcom would respond by letter to their questions. Sending a letter to the trade unions is the way we agreed to clarify his views. As I said yesterday during the presentation of my policy paper in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, we must drop certain taboos. There are difficulties with SNCB, the debt is too high and grows every year, the punctuality is inadequate and the challenges in terms of internal efficiency are great. In this context, the high costs are problematic, especially in the light of the debate on the opening of the rail market at European level. Let there be no ambiguity about it: we must strive for a more efficient railway company and we must gather everyone around that idea. I have regular consultations with all those involved, we work hard on a daily basis and in an atmosphere of trust, in each other and in the future. Finally, and I think this is very important, I would like to stress that I share Mr Cornu's objective and I would like to give the railway staff his pride back.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u60	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer. I told you yesterday that cooperation is the common thread in your policy paper. Trust is an important word you say today. It is also important for us that you talk about liberalisation. We are not in favour of privatisation, but we are in favour of liberalisation. We must prepare SNCB for this. We need financial order, as you said. The provision of services for travellers should be improved. One has to give the staff his pride back. These are all important goals, which we hope you will achieve. Open Vld will support you in any case for 100 or 200 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u61	I would also like to thank the Minister for her reply and the confidence she expresses in the future of SNCB. I think this is very important, especially for the staff. There are a lot of committed people who want to move forward with the company. They feel constrained by uncertainty and a lack of confidence, due to a lack of negotiations around the table. I think it's going to have to be done in the next few weeks. There must be real social negotiations at the table, not through the social media. I think it should be at the table. You also have an important role to play in this. I wish you every success in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u62	In accordance with the opinions of the Conference of Presidents of 17 July and 5 November 2014, I propose that the Special Committee on Army Purchases be re-established. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 July and 5 November 2014, I propose that you re-establish the special Military Procurement Committee. The committee shall consist of 13 effective members. The Commission has 13 effective members. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the distribution of this committee is as follows: I would point out that, in accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the allocation of this committee is as follows: - N-VA: 3 - PS: 2 - MR: 2 - CD&V: 2 - Open Vld: 1 - sp.a: 1 - Ecolo-Green: 1 - cdH: 1 The chairmen of the political groups have sent me the applications of the members of their political groups who will be part of this committee. The presidents of the political groups have sent me the nominations of the members of their group who will make up this committee. - N-VA: Peter Buysrogge, Karolian Grosemans, Renate Hufkens; - PS: Sebastian Pirlot, Julie Fernandez Fernandez; - MR: Denis Ducrame, Sophie Wilmès; - CD&V: Veli Yüksel, Roel Deseyn; - Open Vld: Dirk Van Mechelen; - sp.a: Alain Top; - Ecolo-Green: Benoit Hellings; - CDH: Georges Dallemagne. Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of candidates nominated by political groups, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of eligible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be given to political groups that have nominated candidates, there is no vote in accordance with Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby declare elected candidates who have been nominated. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated elected.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u63	In accordance with the opinions of the Conference of Presidents of 17 July and 5 November 2014, I propose to set up a special Committee on Climate and Sustainable Development. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents on 17 July and 5 November 2014, I propose that you proceed to the establishment of a special committee on climate and sustainable development. The committee shall consist of 17 effective members and 17 alternates. The Commission would consist of 17 actual members and an identical number of alternates. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the distribution of this committee is as follows: I would point out that, in accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the allocation of this committee is as follows: - N-VA: 4 - PS: 3 - MR: 3 - CD&V: 2 - Open Vld: 2 - sp.a: 1 - Ecolo-Green: 1 - cdH: 1 The chairmen of the political groups have sent me the applications of the members of their political groups who will be part of this committee. The presidents of the political groups have sent me the nominations of the members of their group who will make up this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u64	- N-VA: permanent members/ Number of staff: Bert Wollants, Werner Janssen, Valerie Van Peel, Yoleen Van Camp alternates/ alternates: Inez De Coninck, Rita Gantois, Rita Bellens, N - PS:................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. permanent members/ Number of staff: Julie Fernandez Fernandez, Fabienne Winckel, Daniel Senesael
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u65	Karine Lalieux, André Frédéric [[,]] Stéphane Crusnière - MR: permanent members/ Number of staff: David Clarinval , Kattrin Jadin, Luc Gustin
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u66	Stephanie Thoron, Jean-Jacques Flahaux [[,]] Emmanuel Burton - CD&V : permanent members/ Actual : Nathalie Muylle, Leen Dierick alternates / suppliers: Jef Van den Bergh, Els Van Hoof - Open Vld: permanent members/ Actual : Patricia Ceysens, Dirk Janssens Alternates/ alternates : Ine Somers, Nele Lines - sp.a: fixed member / Actual : Peter Vanvelthoven, Substitute / alternate : Karin Temmerman - Ecolo-Green: fixed member / effectif : Jean-Marc Nollet Substitute / Supplier: Kristof Calvo - cdH: fixed member / effectif : Benoît Lutgen Substitute / alternate : Georges Dallemagne Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of candidates nominated by political groups, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of eligible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be given to political groups that have nominated candidates, there is no vote in accordance with Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby declare elected candidates who have been nominated. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated elected.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u67	The Parliamentary Committee responsible for the legislative review shall consist of eleven representatives of the people appointed by the Chamber of Representatives in accordance with the proportional representation of its political groups and of eleven members of the Senate appointed by it. The Parliamentary Committee for Legislative Monitoring is composed of eleven members of the House of Representatives, appointed by the latter to the proportional representation of its political groups and eleven members of the Senate appointed by the latter. The Committee shall have as many alternates as members. The Committee has as many alternate members as there are actual members. I suggest you proceed to the appointment of the members of the Chamber. I suggest that you proceed with the appointment of the members of the House. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observations? [[No]] That will be the case. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the breakdown of this Committee is as follows: I should like to recall that, in accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the allocation of this Committee is as follows: - N-VA: 3 - PS: 2 - MR: 2 - CD&V: 1 - Open Vld: 1 - sp.a: 1 - Ecolo-Green: 1 The chairmen of the political groups have sent me the applications of the members of their political groups who will be part of this Committee. The presidents of the political groups have sent me the nominations of the members of their group who will make up this Committee. - N-VA permanent members/ effectifs: Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot, Sophie De Wit alternates/ suppliers: Christoph D'Haese, Conseil Degroote, N - PS: permanent members/ effectifs: Laurette Onkelinx, Özlem Özen alternates/ alternates [[:]] E ric Massin, Karine Lalieux - MR: permanent members/ Actual : Philippe Goffin, Gilles Foret Alternate / Supplier: Richard Miller, N - CD&V fixed member / Actual: Sonja Becq Alternate / Supplier: Raf Terwingen - Open Vld: fixed member / effectif: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu Alternate / supplier: Egbert Lachaert - sp.a: fixed member / effectif: Johan Vande Lanotte Alternate / Supplier: N - Ecolo-Green: fixed member / effectif: Stefaan Van Hecke alternate / supplyant: Zakia Khattabi Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of candidates nominated by political groups, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be given to political groups which have nominated candidates, there is no vote in accordance with Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby declare elected candidates who have been nominated. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated elected.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u68	At the request of Mrs Catherine Fonck, I propose the legislative proposal (Mr Christian Brotcorne) amending the law of 4 April 2014 on insurance and seeking to ensure the free choice of a lawyer at every stage of legal proceedings under a legal aid insurance contract, No. 192/1, to be referred to the Justice Commission. At the request of Mrs Catherine Fonck, I propose that you refer to the Committee on Justice, the bill (Mr Christian Brotcorne) amending the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014 to guarantee the free choice of a lawyer in any judicial phase, in the framework of a legal protection insurance contract, No 192/1. This bill was previously sent to the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the national scientific and cultural institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation? [[No]] It is thus decided. That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u69	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2014-11-27-54-plenair-ip017x.u70	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 4 December 2014. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 4 December 2014. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 4 December 2014, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 4 December 2014 at 2.15 p.m.
