ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3272	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers and other guests, media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 32nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 15 delegates, 5 from the Bosniak, 5 from the Croatian and 5 from the Serbian people. For the 32nd session, I propose the following amended: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 31st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Answers to delegates' questions and new delegates' questions; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of Bosnia and Herzegovina – suggests that the Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No:01,02-02-13/13 of 19.07.2013 following an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Extermination (Second Concession) – suggests that the Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No 01,02-02-1 18/13, of 15.04.2013; 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Criminal Procedure of BiH (Second Law) – suggests the following: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No 01,02-02-1-22/13, of 15.05.2013; 6. Proposal for a law on liability for nuclear damage (first call) – proposed by the BiH Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-14/13, of 05.06.2013; 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first call) – suggests that the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-124/13, since 15/08; 8. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for the period from 01.01.2011 to 31.12.2011, issue: 01.02-10-742/12, from 21.06.2012; 9. Report on the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH for 2012, material number: 01,02-50-19-327/13, since 14.03.2013; 10. Information on the work of the BiH tuţilaštva Office for 2012, issue: 02-09-495/13, since 15.04.2013; 2 11. Completion of the 2012 report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency Management Board, issue: 01,02-24-437/13 of 19.06.2013; 12. Report on agriculture for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012, materials from the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, issue: 01,02-28-726/13 since 08.07.2013; 13. Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption for 2012, issue 05/8-50-19-273-1/13, from 14.05.2013; 14. Report on the audit carried out in the report on the subject: "The Work Commission of the BiH Institution", issue: 02/3-16-1-818/13, since 12.07.2013; 15. Consideration of the draft conclusions of the Joint Committee on European Integration of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-885/13 of 26.07.2013; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Vlada of Rumunija, No 01,02-05-2-864/13, of 22.07.2013; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the realisation of the project "Public Services for the Market of Real Estate and European Integration", bro: 01,02-05-2-865/13, since 23.07.2013; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the Implementation of the Preferred Work Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina 2012-2015 between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Labour Organisation, issue: 01-02-05-2-866/13, since 23.07.2013; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Credit, Finance and Project between KfW, Frankfurt on May (loaner) and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH (loaner) and Republika Srpska, represented by the Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska, and the Hidroelectrica on Trebišica (HET) (the Agency for the Implementation of the Project) for 10,000 euros – Resuscitation HE Trebinje 1, Phase III, issue: 01.02-05-2-893/13 of 01.08.2013. It's a proposed agenda. Please, I'm opening a discussion. A trusted colleague, Halid Genjac, called. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear presence. I propose that the following be included in today's agenda, as the 10th edition of the agenda: – Information on the reasons and possible consequences of the cancellation of IPA projects in the area of agriculture and rural development and the activities of the Council of Ministers for the possible prevention of the cancellation of those projects. The information should be submitted by the competent minister from the Council of Ministers or by a representative of the Directorate for European Integration. Reason: Two days ago, the IPA Project Monitoring Committee decided to cancel two projects worth more than 5m euros. One is IPA 2008. Sapik, which was designed to develop a strategy in agriculture and others to develop IPARD structures in BiH, and another project from 3 2010 that is the pilot project that should be developed to some extent and established structures. Cancellation of these two projects per BiH has disastrous consequences if it comes to it. And why? This is an assumption, these two projects are the assumption that the necessary bodies and structures are being established and managed by the IPARD structure so that BiH could use the funds behind IPA intended, a very generous means for rural development. These are the funds intended to help farmers and other rural entities and rural infrastructure, which should ultimately result in social stability or an increase in social stability. These mechanisms and these structures are the assumption that BiH is using funds... amounting to around 150m euros. Croatia has used 140m euros from these funds from 2007 to 2013. It is the same area and has the same population as BiH. Since we give 4 to 6 times less resources to encourage agriculture than countries in the region if we remain without these funds, the consequences are catastrophic. I think we should at least get information today and get information from the public, what's going on and what's to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3274	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. A trusted colleague, Mr. Mehmed Bradarić, called. Here you go, Mr. Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3275	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. I'm still 8.05. He submitted to the Joint College an initiative to establish an investigative commission to establish irregularities in the work of the Directorate for Direct Taxation based on the indications that we, as delegates and MPs, are getting almost everyone. naţalost, the zajedniĉki College has not long met and has not considered the initiative because before that, the House of Representatives has submitted the same initiative and they have formed a commission... After that, the Joint College suggested that I do the same at the House of Peoples session, and I did it yesterday. And here, I can see it's not in the living room today. I got the information that this could be discussed next session. I don't know what that means, I say - four months ago I filed this initiative. For a reason I did it, for a reason I did it because, responsibly, at the Directorate for indirect taxation on the part of organized crime and corruption. If nothing this commission would examine the indications we have, of course it couldn't do anything, there would be no time, no capacity to do it. Since I have here, here's the information that, here's the offer that's going to happen at the next session of the House of Peoples, and I know if we were to go to trial here, the proposal might not go through, and here I'm going to agree to renew that initiative at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3276	Thank you, Mr. Bradarić. There are no other applications for entry in this part of the agenda discussion. But now there is a need for us, in consultation with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, as the elder of the institution 4 who has been called in this sense to submit information, to agree on a certain position. We have carried out consultations here, ad hoc, the Collaterals and given the extent to which this information has been answered as well as any other consequences of such a practice which has led to the depriving of some of the funds related to the IPA funds of these projects, which Mr Genjac has mentioned, we are now asking you a question – can you answer today at this session of the People's House in connection with the content of this period of the agenda or to agree that for the first next session of the House of Nations, which we, as the College, estimate would probably be more meaningful for a better discussion, for which other delegates should be prepared which are not members of the Joint Committee for European Integration, we maintain this so-called agenda proposed by Mr Genjac. So, we can do this, you don't have to answer, so these are the consultations we're going to propose to Mr. Genjac before he leaves whether he's still going to be at this session or for the next one.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3277	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3278	You want a solution, all right, I don't want to deny... a solution, go ahead. The river has Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3279	Here, I'll try to answer to Mr. Genjac and all of you as soon as possible. The fact is that there was a monitoring team and of all of us at the monitoring team session was invited only the Director for European Integration. Cancellation of these funds is no surprise. Mr. Šarović and I have made every possible effort to reconcile entity attitudes, unfortunately we have failed. But in order to get full information, I think this is just an info that I received from Mrs. Savić on a verbal basis, I would ask that we give full information at the next session, according to both the record and everything else. But I have to say one thing, and once again point out the need to adopt an effective coordination mechanism, because if we had adopted these things, we wouldn't be. I'm afraid we're at great risk, through all these destructions that occur through the process of adopting a single and effective coordination mechanism, that we're still at risk of a lot of IPA resources and you're absolutely right. Here, I suggest we give full information for the next session, because I'll have records and everything else so we can... answer you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3280	I thank Mr. Chairman. So, please, let's ask the question of the rate of this topic, so let's leave it out at this point and focus on this in terms of procedures and suggestions as agenda trays. rijeĉ has a learned colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3281	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Partly they can agree – the coordination mechanism, to the extent necessary for this issue, exists in terms of legal jurisdiction and the Council of Ministers and its ministers for co-ordination, but it would be good to have a coordination mechanism. I don't mind preparing thorough information for the next session, but I've set this up today as an idea for the following reasons. Since yesterday's or in the morning session odobra the Monitoring Committee, Mr. Sorensen has seven days to write a decision. In those seven days if we can change something we can save the project, if we don't change the information at the next session, there will be approximately a finding of surgery successful patient prone.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3282	So, let's go with the proposal to put this in the agenda or wait...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3283	So I accept the proposal, I'm just warning...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3284	You accept the proposal to stay for the next session. Okay. With the conclusion that no changes and additions to the agenda have been adopted and not voted on, in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We're going to take that one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 31st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up for re-up? There are no reports. We're pleading on the record, please. Thank you. Of the 15 delegates present, all 15 delegates were in favour. From Federation 10 to 5 from Serbia. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the minutes from the 31st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. We're moving on to pad two, Ad. 2. Answers to Legislative Questions and New Legislative Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3287	Ma, I must be honest that I am satisfied with the text that the College has made and the letter again asking the Office of the High Representative, the Court of BiH, the High Court and the Foreign Court Council, the tuţilaštva Ministry of Justice to finally follow up with information on the effects of the work of foreign foreigners and judges in BiH. I think it's written very written, very corely and literally to give a review of this battle which, here, takes two years and still has no effect. I just hope, I know that you've exhausted your opportunities, that one of these institutions will finally get the courage to open the topic that we as BiH have received from foreign prosecutors and judges and what are the effects of their work. Everyone in particular is afraid to talk on this subject, because if it were some big positive effects, it would be information. All of them escape, they find themselves unsuspecting because they well know that this is the area where the most political influence in BiH's history was... are domestic judges and foreigners an example of independence in relation to these people who worked here. Well, I guess someone will have the courage and strength to write at least one small piece of information to one of the highest ones, actually one of the two homes, and that in each country after two years of struggle to get the right to have information, without a pre-set, maybe all is positive, but someone behind and says it was positive. moţda the conclusion of this House will be that it was positive, but someone should write it and tell it, not all of them are running away from one topic which they declared a few years ago as the largest condition of reform of the judicial system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I, here's just once again publicly invite all these institutions that the College has addressed to actually do their job once and for someone to be brave and to give a grade. It doesn't have to be the one I might have in my head, it could be completely different from her, but somebody stop and say it like this. This acting with us, running away from the subject, ignoring this little thing has gone beyond any sense. It may be a political game level interesting thing, but people for two years this House has been looking for information on such an important topic. Well, even the media don't have the courage, they can deal with various topics when it comes to us, but they allow this many years to be played, and they know it because international institutions... are involved, that one serious thing like this can't be put on the agenda, and that everyone accepts it as completely normal, without the courage to say – give us painful information already. I really can't figure that out. 7 I hope that what you have done correctly, you have exhausted your possibilities, I have nothing to ask you anymore, but indeed remains, remains a topic, what is so dramatic that no one will make the information. What? What kind of taboo is that? I really don't understand it because, I repeat, this is the conclusion of the House, not mine, it's not my initiative, but Dom concluded this straight two years ago and didn't move a single letter of that conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3288	Thank you, Mr. Ivanić. After, you say, so much time if you're satisfied we're like a college too pleased.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3289	I'm not giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3290	Okay, okay. Now we move on to the part where new delegates are asked questions, of course, if there are. Here you go. A well-known delegate, counterpart Nermina Kapetanović, came forward. Here you go, Mrs. Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3291	The Honorable Mr. Chairman, gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, media representatives. On 16 April 2013, I addressed to the Council of Ministers, the latter to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations the next delegation initiative to which I have not received an answer to this day, so I am taking this opportunity to repeat the delegation's initiative. It is an initiative to inform domestic milk production at BiH level that the packaging shows how many times milk has been recycled to protect citizens and especially children in BiH. In an explanation, I would like to say that milk is very little known, recycled and returned to the market after its expiry date. Given that citizens are not familiar with the production of milk, and in order to protect all citizens, especially children, I submit this initiative in order for competent institutions to get to know the public about the milk production processes and the number allowed by health of the milk recycling procedures. I want to say that, uncalled, and officially, from this place, there are cubes on each lower side of the milk pack, a series of cubes that are shown in different colours. Only one Bosnian hercegova product is marked by the number of recycled products, so 3, 2, 1, 5, in order to make this clear to consumers. That's what I became convinced of, because I've been very careful in investigating this area. I believe that the Bosnianherceg public, esteeming their own lives and their own health, has the right to know what it buys. What do red, yellow, green, orange and black squares that are on the bottom, so well hidden from the customer's eye, what do they know? 8 I ask the Ministry of Foreign Trade to first explain this to us in response, and so I want this initiative to be given a completely different approach with the aim of giving citizens opportunities to address their health by choosing healthy products. It's the first initiative. And secondly addressed to the Council of Ministers, the question, now a delegate question – did the Council of Ministers of BiH launch an initiative towards the Republic of Croatia to supplement the existing Social and Pension Insurance Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia in terms of the return of permanent rights of disabled workers who have been lost due to, under the name of, unwarranted gender gaps, and equality with disabled rights of citizens of Croatian nationality? In an explanation, I would like to say that again, for who knows which time, I point out the importance of solving the problem of BiH citizens who have been employed and settled in the Republic of Croatia and in the period since '91. '95. They've been out of work for years. It's about 9,500 citizens of Republika Srpska, and I think about 5,000 citizens from the Federation of BiH and a couple of hundred citizens from the Bräko District. I believe that, given the decadent problems of BiH citizens who have lost their rights in the Republic of Croatia and who can only be resolved at the level of the states of the Republic of Croatia and BiH, I would like an urgent written response from the Council of Ministers to the asked question. A more specific answer is not made by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which has done its part very professionally, but by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3292	Thank you, Mrs. Kapetanović. Does the President of the Council of Ministers want to answer now or in writing?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3293	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3294	It's written. gospoċo Kapetanović, you will receive a written reply. Rieña further has an imported colleague, delegate Staša Košarac. Here you go, Mr. Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3295	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome the presidency, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the adopted ministers and deputies and, of course, colleagues and colleagues. The delegation question I would like to ask the BiH Foreign Office, which is – Why does BiH's Tušupilstvo prevent the continuation of the exhumation at the site of Buća Potok, i.e. the City Garbage, by not dissipating financial obligations for the works? When the tuţilaštvo Office, as was the case in the past eshumation processes, will make payment of the financial commitment created and thus unblock the process of eshumation. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3296	I have information from the Secretary of the House that no one in the D.A.'s office is present at the moment. Is anyone present about that? It's not. What about the Justice Department? _________(?) /no microphone turned on/ A written answer. Okay. A trusted colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac, came forward. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3298	I thank the chairman. In accordance with Article 8(1) and Article 9. The Rules of Procedure of the Dona People initiate the initiative of the delegate – That the Ministry of Human Rights of the Council of Ministers, within 15 days, no later than the next meeting of the House of Nations, prepare information on the implementation of the Constitution of guaranteed rights of Bošnjak returnees in RS in the field of primary education, in particular with regard to the implementation of a national group of subjects as planned and a programme for Bosnian language. Reason: These days 158 children in Konjević Polje, Bratunac municipality, so at the “Saavo” elementary school in Vrbanja near Kotor Varoša, Dubravi near Gradiška etc., do not go to school because their parents and parents are faced with ignoring... the relationship with their demands to respect their law and the Constitution guaranteed human rights in the field of education. I think that this subject, given that it is a very sensitive subject, and the issue of respect for human rights, I think that the Ministry of Human Rights, in co-operation with the competent entity ministry in the field of education, should prepare information and give it up to the House of Peoples so that we can see what is going on and what needs to be taken further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3299	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. So, without the intention of the Rules of Procedure, everything is...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3300	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3301	Yeah, okay. Rivera still has a learned colleague, Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3302	Dear Mr. Chairman, Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates and all present, I welcome you. My question is to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the BiH Statistics Agency, which reads, in front of BiH and its institutions, residents, is one of the most important projects in the last 22 years. A number of years later, the 2012 Census, Households and Apartments Act was adopted and amendments were made this year and the deadline for the census was set, which is October 2013. As far as I am aware, the Methodology for the preparation, organisation and implementation of the census, households and dwellings in BiH was adopted in 2013, which contains the basic principles of the organisation and implementation of the census, as well as the elaborate tasks and procedures of all the organizers of the direct perpetrators. My question is – How is very little time left until the census, is the list being prepared for the census based on the established dynamics and are all assumptions of the normative, humane, organisational, that the list be carried out in quality and in accordance with the highest standards in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3303	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. It will be written, as far as I can see, answered that question. Rivera still has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Mehmed Bradarić. Here you go, Mr. Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3304	I have one question. The public procurement agency has not published its reports for nearly three years and the level of non-transparent public procurement has reached a record amount. For this reason, I request a detailed report on public procurement for 2011, 2012 and the first six months of 2013, of course in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3305	Thank you, Mr. Bradarić. He has a well-known delegate, Mr. Krstan Simić. Here you go, Mr. Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3306	Thank you, Chairman. Given some contradictory signs in the media on the threat of the process of importing the digital system on BiH territory and the consequences that would lead to the full exclusion of certain programmes, and we know that RS has already been on the verge of introducing this digital system but has been stopped, my question is – at what stage is the digitalisation process, is there any obstacle and will the adoption of this system of citizens of BiH be compromised?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3307	Thank you, Mr. Simić. Rijeña further has an esteemed colleague, Mr Mladen Ivanić. Here you go, Mr. Ivanic. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3308	Again, about two years ago, I asked what the Council of Ministers would do to make sure that children of returnees in Glammoοsi in Serbian. Then the answer was that there was no money. I return the question, therefore, to the agenda, since the legal conditions have been met there that the children enter, and there is no teacher, – What will the Council of Ministers take duly, that children who have returned to Glammo - come to, teach in Serbian language? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3309	Thank you, Mr. Ivanić. I find that further applications for entry, in connection with the work on this tai agenda, are gone. We're going to work on the three, Ad. 3. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples You have received a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH following an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Narras. The House of Representatives is at 51. The session, held on 25.07.2013, was accepted by the Request for an examination of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH following an emergency procedure and adopted this Act. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up for re-up? So we're talking about a matter of urgency. rijeĉ has a learned colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3311	I thank the chairman. Of course, no one in this Chamber will argue that this Law has neither a degree of urgency, there is no reason for a high degree of urgency, nor is the law so simple that it can be considered as an emergency procedure. If anyone has an argument against it, I'd like to do it. So, this law is addressed to an emergency procedure beyond the provisions that allow the Rules of Procedure to allow this emergency procedure. Why did someone decide to deliver this law in a procedure against the provisions of the letter? It's not urgent, it's not simple. I can guess what the reason is. It's possible it's some kind of store, and I can say it's well-founded. If it's a trade, I think it's been traded in an area where it's not supposed to be traded, and that it's a trade where those who aim to weaken the weak institutions have gone very well, and those who have other goals I don't know what they've got for that trade, to weaken one significant institution. 12 So, this Law, the Explanatory, is not urgent at all. The existing solutions enable the operation of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and there is no reason for urgency, especially for high urgency. This law is not that simple. On the contrary, this is an extremely complex law and, by its provisions, the absolute concept of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce is changing. Namely, the basic principle established in the Law is that the Chamber is an independent, non-governmental, non-profit public-legal association of economic operators and business associations from BiH territory is completely changing. Its position of non-profit, non-governmental, independent organisations is changed, among other things by the introduction of the supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in the Council of Ministers over the Foreign Chamber of Commerce is lost, independence is completely lost or independence is reduced, legal confusion is created, the overlapping of the Administration Act and the Foreign Chamber Act, etc., etc. So, at this point, I hope I've presented enough arguments not to go and crash into an emergency procedure in such a large procedure, causing such great damage to an institution that is ultimately leading to the shutting down of that institution. So, these amendments to the Law, I repeat, are very harmful to the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, they are very harmful to the position of that entity, and in the contaminants can lead to the suspension of that institution. It's about changes like that. I'll talk about these changes when we're on a scale, but right now, I'm asking my colleagues that with such big changes, without any excuse, we're not going so urgently, but that the law goes into regular procedure and that we include all relevant entities and that we get to quality changes. If the store is closed, sit down again and discuss the new trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3312	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. No Niko has applied further for participation in the discussion on matters of urgency of this Law. So, accordingly, I conclude the debate in this part of the work on the agenda. We are moving on to a statement on the procedure, so whether or not we are going to consider the bill by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122 of the Law. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Here you go. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 8 delegates, 3 delegates against them, and 3 delegates were maintained. From the Federation – 4 for, 3 against, 2 abstentions. From RS – 4 for, no one against and 1 abstention. Given that there is both a general and an entity majority, I find the request to consider the amendment law and amendments to the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH was adopted. We're moving on to a debate about the bill itself. Please, I'm opening a debate. rijeĉ has a learned colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3313	I thank the chairman. The proposal for a law is primarily based without any involvement of relevant operators, the public, so business entities that use the Chamber by voluntary association without including the public. The proposal has been addressed in haste, reverse-application and in the context that I have already stated. That's why it's the law. Obviously, it was not intended to improve solutions, to fix 13 laws. The intentions have been subdued by some other goals that I don't, I can speculate not to. Because of these other goals that were controlled by the Law itself, we received a Law that was disastrous. Why? These changes reduce or completely lose the independence of the Outer Chamber of Commerce. Therefore, full supervision of the Ministry of the One is being introduced and a complete legal confusion is being created in the overlapping of the Law on Administration and the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. This means the inability of partnership, i.e. the government's correction and representation of the domino economy. How to represent the economy in relation to e.g. to the Council of Ministers if the Chamber of Commerce submits a report to the Council of Ministers, instead of submitting the report to its own members, and how to report and be a partner to the Council of Ministers if the Council of Ministers controls and controls you completely? How? Therefore, the provisions which, in the light of the Law, are a very interesting solution states that these changes will contribute to the functioning, smooth functioning of economic operators and the creation of a healthy market. Please, I will repeat, therefore, by giving up the upper limit of -lanarina, the smooth functioning of business entities and the creation of a healthy market will be achieved. It is shrinking and detachable, and this will be reduced by approximately the largest economic operators, or giants in BiH, to shrink. That poor little thing's gonna get bigger. It will contribute to the creation of a healthy economy... I, therefore, propose to the laws which, of all the measures to achieve the conditions for a healthy economy, have determined that they tax the poor with increased bananas. Therefore, this change will also reduce, resulting in a drastic reduction in the incomes of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce from -lanarina to the most extreme possible. It is not possible for individual members to pay a more voluntary amount than..., but you must not pay more or pay, nor if you wish, with the discharge exclusively and only the largest, most profitable companies, Telecom, Elektroprivreda, merchant chains, oil derivatives importers, banks, they will be released. And an increased burden on the smallest and most vulnerable companies. It is clear that from the far-reaching urge to survive, the reduction of revenues from large, the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH must compensate for the increase in revenues from smaller companies that are paying today's symbols of the round-up price. This will increase, therefore, the change, the pressure of the economy on budgets and will need to increase incentives from public revenues, as currently the most expensive activity of export promotions, performances at fairs and others, is financed by the Foreign Chamber of Commerce itself, with the help of international partners, i.e. drastically reducing export promotions and performances and thus exports themselves. It's another one of our own to contribute to healthy conditions for the economy. An institution that has been operating since 1909, therefore the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, which has survived all the states, systems and wars so far, and which has survived during the transformation from the BiH Chamber of Commerce to the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and passed the Foreign Chamber Act, is now a co-ordination body and a half-government and half-governmental, if possible, agency that will turn to itself and survive employees, bringing down activity to the level of some non-governmental organisation or current half-dead cantonal chambers. Absolutely no positive effect, but indeed neither literally any of the letters in this proposal do the External Chamber of Commerce, more efficient, more capable and more useful. Absolutely none. 14 So, I think there's enough reason for this law, since we've already committed ourselves to an emergency procedure, to reject it urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3314	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. There are no other applications for entry in the discussion, so let's move on to a plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3315	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3316	Excuse me, yes, excuse me. The light's falling a little off here. Rijeka has an imported colleague, delegate Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go, Mrs. Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3317	I thank the chairman. moţda my discussion should, however, have been related to the procedure of considering the Law, but indeed for the sake of the knowledge of the topics we are discussing today and also to my own opinion and dignity, I am obliged to say that, regardless of what I am to those who, every day, advocate the improvement of the business environment and the promotion of the Bosnian Herzegovician economy and the strengthening of its competitiveness in the world, I do not think that this significant text of the Law should have been considered today by an urgent procedure. And yet again, I want to say from this place that fashion, therefore, and one trend that the ruling six have introduced, is the examination of the law by emergency procedure without the possibility of amendment action is not democracy. It's just cheating, it's not from democracy either. It's just a demonstration of force, of the self's hand, and BiH's interest in it is not everything. I don't want to doubt the good intentions of suggesting that perhaps on their basis, how I managed to listen to the media, that it was intentional to strengthen the Chamber of Commerce. But objectively speaking, it is clear to those who are not legal knowers that when they look at the basic text of the Law that the text of the Law itself is very contradictory. For example, here I apologize for repeating what my colleague Genjac said, but it is really not good that when a doctor notices that the text says that, for example, the Chamber of Commerce, in Chamber 2, it is said that the Chamber is an independent NGO, a non-political association and a non-profit association, an argument, a boded, and that the amendments to the Law want to make it an institution with public powers. If it is non-governmental, non-political, non-profit, then it is not clear to me why it is necessary to report on the implementation of the Council of Ministers' budget by March of the current year. And I don't understand why, yet again, it's written in a bold manner, why the Foreign Trade Ministry is tasked with overseeing the work of the Chamber in accordance with the Management Act. It's exactly what's bold, these two items that I've been saying, that puts it in contradiction. There can't be anything non-profit, non-governmental, why isn't it, for example, I apologize, Transparency International as a non-governmental organisation why it doesn't report on the execution of the Council of Ministers' budgets, and why does someone, for example, work, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, monitor the work and 15 NGOs? I apologize for taking them as an example. So, it ĉini to me that the proposal would have been very clumsyly invoked to the Administration Act, several places being called. I think there's a series of legal uncertainty here, and I'm afraid, however, that in the final line, this text, which is suspected and I think it will happen, will be adopted today by demonstration of force and hand, will essentially lead to the shutting down of this very well-known institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3318	Thank you, Mrs. Kapetanović. I now find that there are no further applications for entry into the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 9 delegates, 3 delegates against them, 2 delegates were detained. From the Federation – 5 for, against 3, abstention 1. From Serbia – 4 for, no one against, 1 abstention. There is also a general and entity majority, so I agree with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH was adopted. We're moving on to work on the takkíeteri, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Extermination (Second Reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is a second reading, and, as you know, a debate on amendments is being held and votes on the bill. You have received a report from the Joint Commission on BiH's defence and security. The Commission adopted the draft law with one amendment. The House of Representatives adopted the Law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the Convention on the prohibition of development, production, accumulation and use of chemical weapons and the destruction of such a single amendment. I'm giving word to an esteemed colleague, Mrs Borjani Krišto, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at a meeting of the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3320	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3321	It's like the report. Thank you. I'm making a proposal to the law if he wants to? _________(?) /No microphone/ 16 turned on He doesn't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate under this law. Noted as far as I can tell. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 13 delegates were for, against no one, one delegate was maintained. From the Federation - 9 for, against no one, no one abstentioned. From Serbia – 4 for, no one against, 1 abstention. Given that there is a general and entity majority, I find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the prohibition of development, production, accumulation and use of chemical weapons and its destruction has been adopted in the identification text as in the House of Representatives. We're going to work on that five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Criminal Procedure Act (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3324	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3325	It's like the report. Thank you. I'm making a proposal to the law if he wants to? He's proposing the Law. _________(?) /no microphone turned on/ He doesn't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. 17 We move on to a plea. Thank you. Out of the 15 delegates present - 14 delegates were for, against no one, maintained 1 delegate. From the Federation – 10 for, from Serbia – 4 for, 1 kept. Given that there is a general and entity majority, I find that the Law amending the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH is adopted in the identical text as in the House of Representatives. We're moving on to pad six. Ad. Six. Proposal for a law on liability for nuclear damage (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3328	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3329	It's like the report. Thank you. I'm making a suggestion if he wants to? _________(?) /no microphone turned on/ He's proposing he doesn't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up for re-up? There are no applications for participation in the discussion. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Of the 15 delegates present, all 15 delegates were in favour. From the Federation – 10, from Serbia – 5. There is a general and entityal majority, so I'm finding a bill on liability for nuclear damage was adopted in the first sentence. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3332	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3333	It's like the report. Thank you. I'll make a suggestion if he wants to. _________(?) /no microphone turned on/ There's no request, okay. I'm opening a debate. As far as I can tell, there are no reports of entry in the discussion. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Of the 15 delegates present, 14 delegates were held for, no one against, 1 delegate. From the Federation – 10 for, from Serbia – 4 for, 1 kept. Given that there is both a general and entity majority, I find that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions was adopted in the first article. We're moving on to the eight, Ad. 8. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the BiH Ombudsman's work report for the period from 01.01/11 to 31.12.2011
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3338	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3339	Well, of course you can if you want. Here you go. rijeĉ's got, in effect, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3340	I welcome the chairman, the shoes of the College, the trained representatives, the Council of Ministers' members, representatives of the Board of Ministers of Administrative Organizations and all those who are the administrative apparatus at the level of the BiH state. I would like to say in the shortest, since there have been a lot of remarks already through the commission on the formation of this report, in the shortest. So, a few introductory notes, why the format of this report is this, a little bit about form and content. This Report has been based on an important guideline on the methodology of the report, which has been done for the third year. By making reports, it is up to us to meet the methodological standards when preparing. I note that this report bears the date of 14/03 this year and that this is the first report on the work of this Council of Ministers. It also contains the most important activities, the results achieved in 2012, and really only the most important. It shall include an assessment of the situation in 21 areas from the Council of Ministers' section, i.e. the section of the Ministry's departments and administrative oralisations as part of ministries, independent administrative organisations and individual bodies of the Council of Ministers. It contains indicators of planned and realised programming tasks, selected budgets, their purpose and spending. It will certainly be asked through the reports of the committees and their conclusions,... it is being rejuvened, why this report does not cover all institutions that should be covered by nature and for their work correspond to the Council of Ministers. No, because it is institutions that have not had planned or implemented activities in their plans or activities, which should be covered by the methodology. For example. They did not prepare laws, did not prepare regulations, did not have activities in the conclusion of international agreements, did not have significant activities in the EU integration process, or are about institutions which do not need to be covered by this Report by the nature of the work they do. For example, these are examples. The General Secretariat, the Office of Legislative Affairs and their like. These institutions depend greatly on how effective the Council of Ministers will be in achieving its tasks but at the same time they are not interested in the Parliamentary Assembly, because they, their reports would include how many sessions were prepared, how many conclusions, minutes, decisions were also prepared, how many press releases were made, how many protocols were received and sent to foreign delegations, diplomats, how many opinions on draft laws and decisions were issued, etc. It should be noted... and within the framework of the Ministry and Management Organisations either many other activities that are less important, due to the fact that they are not even shown in this Report, but it must be noted that these activities are very important for the functioning of the Ministries themselves and the Council of Ministers themselves. If we were to install all of this, and I specified what we're not, this report has 360 pages, so I'm sure it would contain 1,300 or 2,300 pages. I believe that a real picture of what the Council of Ministers did in the previous year can be obtained on the basis of this Report, but also a picture of what was to be done and what we did not do. The important part of the report is that the data on the money that was spent on what was done are shown. The data in the annex are planned-realised objective and are not hairstyled. toĉno is pointed out which programming tasks are not realised and given a brief explanation why they are not realised. It is important to stress that this report cannot be a similar report on government work with classical competencies. We moţemo take the governments of the countries in the environment as an example. Since there is atrocity at entity or Spanish level, in other parliaments when discussing the government's report there are comprehensive debates on the situation in the area of the greatest knowledge of living and working in the country, such as the state of health, education, science, culture, sport, social policy, pension system, economy and similar. For these administrative areas in BiH are competent entities or generalities, which means that in this Parliament on these life-threatening issues on the situation in these areas, there are no comprehensive discussions or a report on work that can contain such data, except what we have as co-ordinating and then can be asked quite normal and a question and give answers and it is embedded in the Report. What we have, or what it represents, is not a government with all the usual competences, but this is a Council of Ministarians with limited competencies and a decision-making structure. I ask that the honourable MPs, when they discuss this report, keep that in mind. I should like to emphasise that the implementation of a project aimed at improving the policy of 22 strategic planning, reporting on the implementation of strategic plans, with the aim of improving the methodology for the work of the Council of Ministers, as well as the work programme itself, is under way. She's in the final phase. raċena, with co-operation with the governments of EU countries, will, in any case, allow the next report to be on the new concept, and we are also ready to listen to all the remarks because we consider them well-intentioned, in order to improve the results of reports and their own presentations, and we will listen to all that and take note of the hope that we will be able to draw up another report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3341	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm opening a debate. There are no applications for participation in the discussion. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on the 2012 report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. Thank you. Of the 15 delegates present, there were 11 delegates, 1 delegate was against, and 3 delegates were maintained. From the Federation – 7 for, against no one, abstained 3. From Serbia – 4 for, 1 against, no one abstained. Given that there is both the general and the entity majority, I am finding a report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2012 has been adopted. Now we move to a statement on the conclusions of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples that I will not read again. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 13 delegates were in favour, no one was against, and 1 delegate was maintained. From the Federation – 9 for, from Serbia – 4 for, 1 kept. There is a general and entity majority, so I find the conclusion that the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples has been adopted. We are now moving to a statement on the conclusion of the Joint Commission on European Integration of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 13 delegates were in favour, no one was against, and 1 delegate was maintained. From the Federation – 3 for, from the Serbian 4 for, 1 abstention, pardon 9 for from the Federation. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that the conclusion of the Joint Commission on European Integration of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been adopted. We've exhausted our work on this agenda. We're going to work on the 10th, Ad. Ten. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2012 In view of the fact that before we held this fee, we were able to check whether there were representatives of the rapporteur's office in the Chamber of the People's House for 2012 on the 23rd agenda, which is – Information on the work of the BiH Foreign Office for 2012, we received information that there was no one from the Foreign Office and that they did not respond properly to the call sent. Accordingly, the Kolega agrees that this agenda will be removed from this session and decided for the next session of the agenda. We're going to work on the 11th agenda, Ad. 11. Completion of the 2012 work report of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3344	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3345	It's like the report. Thank you. I give word to the Reporter, if he's present and if he wants to. _________(?) /no microphone turned on/ Don't ţelite to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this report. A trusted colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac, called in. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3347	Mr. Chairman. Very briefly, since I suggested a supplement to this report. I would really like to thank the Agency's management or management, who responded and responded very quickly and to submit the addition of reports with very high quality and for future monitoring of work to very useful information.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3348	I thank you too, Mr. Genjac so much. 24 Now we are going to make a statement according to this account. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, all 14 delegates were in favour. From the Federation – 9, from Serbia – 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I find the addition of reports on the work of the BiH Export and Credit Agency's Management Board for 2012 has been adopted. We're going to work on the 12th, Ad. 12. Agriculture report for Bosnia and Herzegovina 2012 material of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations You have received the opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications of the House of Peoples. The Commission adopted a report in the area of agriculture for BiH for 2012 and proposed its adoption to the House. The House of Representatives adopted the Report with six conclusions at its 52nd session, held on 29.08.2013. I give the chairperson of the Commission, Mr Hasan Bećirović, to his learned colleague, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3350	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3351	It's like the report. Thank you. I give word to the Reporter if he wants to. _________(?) /no microphone turned on/ As in the information, or the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, all 14 delegates were in favour. From the Federation – 9, from Serbia – 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I am finding a report from the BiH agriculture area for 2012 was adopted. We're going to work on the 13th, 25th Ad. 13. A report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption for 2012
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3354	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3355	It's like the report. Thank you. I'm giving word to the Reporter. _________(?) /No microphone/ 26 included He doesn't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up for re-up? If there are no notifications, I will conclude this debate. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 13 delegates were in favour, no one was against, and 1 delegate was maintained. From the Federation – 9 for, from Serbia – 4 for, 1 kept. Given that there is a general and entity majority I find a report on the work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency for 2012 has been adopted. We are now moving to a statement on the Commission's conclusions. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates were in favour. From the Federation – 9, from Serbia – 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I find the Commission's conclusions on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption have been adopted. We're going to work on note 14, Ad. 14. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The Work Commission of the BiH Institution"
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3358	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3359	It's like the report. Thank you. I'm giving word to the Reporter. _________(?) /no microphone turned on/ He has no ţelju to engage in the debate. All right. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up for re-up? There are no reports. 27 We move on to a statement. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates were in favour. From the Federation – 9, from Serbia – 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I find the report on the revision of the report on the subject: "The Work Commission of the BiH Institution" was adopted. We're going to work on the 15th, Ad. 15. Consideration of the Joint Commission's proposal for European Integration of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3363	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd just like to comment on something here on the 21st, so can I now or in the course of the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3364	An esteemed colleague, therefore, in the context of an open debate on all agendas, there is also a debate on each one, so you can, after we have declared whether or not we will conduct a united debate and then speak together about them. With that...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3365	And if it is united, they may refer to this point 21.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3366	Certainly, with that, I'm just warning the following, so any vote against one of the agreements...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3367	There won't be a voice against
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3368	All right, thanks a lot. Then we're going over 29.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3369	Just a comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3370	All right, all right, this one, let's get to the bottom of the work on this little agenda. So we move on to a statement of conclusion. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates were in favour. From the Federation – 9, from Serbia – 5. There's a general and entity majority, so I figure the proposal's been passed. Ad. 16. - 19. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement and the Memorandum You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communications related to these tariffs of the agenda. I give the chairman of the Commission, Mr Hasan Bećirović, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3372	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3373	Okay, like in the report, okay. Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this one, this one on the agenda. Here you go. rijeĉ has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Martin raguţ.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3374	Thank you. I will support these agreements. With regard to this agreement on Tuesday 21st, which concerns the agreement on credit and financing and the Frankfurt project on May and BiH, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and Republika Srpska, represented by the Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska and Hydroelectrica in Trebišica for the purpose of the resolution of HE Trebinje 1, Phase III. We here, I do not know which of our colleagues and colleagues remember, in the last few terms on several occasions we have discussed in general the functioning of these hydropower plants in Trebišnica and the complex related to the regulation of the Trebišnica stream, the floating of the Popov field, the damages that have been simple and which have been truly enormous and to the resolution of these possible preventions and, unfortunately, this Parliament has reached conclusions, little of which has been respected, there was actually one kind of ignoring common, this BiH institution and one approach to coordination. Knownly, if these 10,000 euros will help to regulate certain things on Trebišnitsa hydropower trebišnjica, I will give a vote for, but if the same practice of behavior continues, this one, then we will seek a debate on the functioning of this project and system, because in the last three to four years, enormous damage has been done to the municipality of Ravno and Pop's field every year. And if a vote is sought at BiH level for these 30 funds, then Parliament's recommendations that approve these loans should be taken into account in the implementation of these common conclusions. That's one minimum. There's only one comment in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-12-0.u3375	Thank you, Mr. raguţ. On my desktop, there are no other applications for participation in the discussion, so I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. So, we vote on giving consent to ratifying the agreement and the memorandum from tai-16 to tai-tak 19, including tak-taku 19. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates were in favour. From the Federation – 9, from Serbia – 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that we have agreed to ratify the agreement and the memorandum from tai-16 to tai-tak 19, including tak-tak 19. Dear colleagues, thank you for attending today's session. Bon appétit. Session completed at 12:40 p.m.
