ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15343	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 49th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies, representatives of the media. Representatives of institutions whose work reports on the agenda of today's session were also invited to attend the session. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence was justified by MPs Saša Magazinović and Nermin Purić. 33 MPs are present, according to the information provided by the Service. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. When it comes to changes to the agenda, I would like to mention the following. The following are added to the agenda: point 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. Point 4. The request of Parliament of Nermine Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Well-being of Animals under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. Point 5. The request of the BiH SDP and SBB MPs to consider the proposal for a law on the availability of immovable military assets under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. Point 7. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. Point 8. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption. 2 And point 17. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission on both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's home to draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH and the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The previous agenda was downloaded: Point 3. Proposal for a law on witness protection programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers (first reading), at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission. Point 5. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading), also at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission. The deadline for submission of the opinion has been extended until the next session. Point 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the First Amendment to the Agreement relating to the Credit Agreement, concluded on 20.07.2010, for the financing of the Purchase, Installation, Training and Maintenance of Medical and Non-medical Equipment and Services at the Cantonal Hospital of Oresje between Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH and United Credit Bank Austria AG, at the request of the Foreign Affairs Commission. The Commission agreed to ask the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury for materials on the tender procedure under this Agreement to be obtained from competent entity and cantonal authorities. Before we move to a debate on the agenda, we need to resolve one issue, and regarding the motion for a resolution on the establishment of an e-government, MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Namely, in accordance with Article 148(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure should be made clear whether this motion for a resolution will be referred to the committee responsible. So I put the motion to refer the resolution to the committee responsible. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority - 32 for, 0 versus, 0 abstentions. And this resolution is going to be considered by the competent commission. Now I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. The first to discuss the agenda was reported by MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go. _________(?) No, no, no, Mladen Bosić was first.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15344	I agree, there's no problem, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15345	It was the first one, but here I'm looking, the problem is some kind of dyspella, right? I don't think it's a problem. The word has Mladen Bosić. Here you go. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15346	...... of SDS and SNSD MPs I propose a new item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Single Parent Code by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. In fact, we are all witnessing the problems caused by this situation about the inability to solve the parent number and we were pleased to hear that the Council of Ministers managed to reach an agreement yesterday and to reach a decision on a temporary solution. Since it is evident that the agreement has been very difficult to come by, and this compromise should be appreciated. We believe that the time has come to resolve this issue immediately and to adopt a law that is identical in its solutions with a compromise reached by the Council of Ministers. So, the decision which, and the solution adopted by the Council of Ministers and voted on by all ministers in the Council of Ministers, we propose that we turn everyone here into a law together and finish the story of a unique home number.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15347	The word has an MP, Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15348	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. On the basis of Article 65(1), Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives as authorised promoters are being submitted to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Single Parent Number Act for consideration and adoption in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We propose that the proposal be considered by an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127 – the promoters: Danijela Martinović, Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović and Nermina Ćemalović. Here, I don't need to explain much, we've been preparing the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Number Act. We believe that after making a temporary decision, it is necessary to amend and adopt the Law by an urgent procedure, in order to have a solution that fulfils the reasons why Article 5 has been abolished. The law on single parent number. Here, I refer this on behalf of the proposings in the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15349	Thank you. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15350	Thank you for reminding me to discuss the agenda. I don't have an initiative, I'm not going to propose a request, I'm not asking for an emergency procedure, I answered for something else. So, I know, of course, business provisions and understanding the position of the College, but I have a request and a recommendation to refrain, that all initiatives and requirements for emergency procedures, etc., however, we work on time, not wait for the last moment. We BiH Party MPs unfortunately are not informed as others because we are not members of the Extended College, so I apologize if there is something that has been agreed and I do not know. But you see the situation where we are, we have changed today at the last minute, a seriously changed agenda with 3-4 emergency procedures on very important laws to decide not only when it comes to procedure, but also possibly debate content. So we find ourselves in a very, so to speak, handicapped situation when it comes to the quality of discussion and determinations towards certain things. Now look at this, here's to the new circumstances, we seem to have proposed two of the same laws. Can I be on the agenda at the same time today, etc.? So here I conclude, I pray, therefore, the MPs and the College, all that has the ambition to do urgently can be delivered a day, two, three before, not before the sittings themselves and practically on the benches. And please respect my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15351	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15352	I thank the chairman. Well, my question is about point 5. Here, I understand Mr. Belkić, but here I am, and I've been to the College, not exactly the clearest position of point 5. If we understood things correctly, we had a decision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that could be found on the agenda and that decision was withdrawn. And for her, business opportunities were fulfilled, but I didn't understand that the law fulfilled the business opportunities to find her. I thought it was going to be another way. But here, if there's an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15353	Discussion on the agenda, MP Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15354	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I have an objection to item 3 of the proposed agenda. I also join Mr Belkić, who underlined the fact that legislation is being placed on the agenda, and that previous failures are not being read by MPs on very important matters. There's no need for me to talk here about the Public Procurement Act. The law is one of the most important laws for BiH as a whole. In my time, I gave the initiative to revive the law and put it in the process. There was no reaction to that. I ask the Council of Ministers – Do you purposely place things on the agenda that are very sensitive, very sensitive, and by emergency procedure? In fact, the existing law is not good and needs to be changed. It needs to be adapted to the situation we're in. It seems that BiH is the only one in the Balkans that does not pay attention to such laws and similar ones, when it comes to organised crime and corruption. At times, there is also a need to listen to the 5 non-governmental sectors that he has found, so almost everyone on several occasions, that BiH loses about 700 million marks annually in public procurement. It's obviously a crime, it's obviously organized crime, but it's obvious that executives have no hearing about these things. And that's very problematic. One day this has to come on the agenda. I understand the situation that there are confrontations about some political interests, constitutional problems, interpretations of the Constitution, the law, etc., these are important things of course, but I think this is a very, very important thing. It is a very important thing for all of us, and I am surprised that the Council of Ministers has such a level of awareness that you put this law in accordance with the urgent procedure, amendments and additions, without thorough review of the existing law and putting it into practice. So I suggest you take this off the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15355	Thank you. Your suggestion is to take that off, that is, the agenda point. Just deliver it to us in writing. I've been reminding you from the beginning, so you have a chance to suggest or ask to get something off the agenda. The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15356	Mr. Chairman. I will, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, explain it briefly, since you didn't do it. I would ask you in the future to give a detailed explanation of why the Constitutional Commission is asking that certain points be removed from the agenda, that Parliament knows the public, because the letter that we have sent to you has been given to you only by you and has not been given to Members of Parliament. It is therefore the requirements that have been made following detailed examinations of these laws or due to the failure of the proposings, a representative of the motionor to the meetings of the Constitutional Legal Commission. And I will not explain in detail what this is all about today, but I will take the opportunity to call on the Council of Ministers, the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers and the Secretary-General and the Office for Legislative Affairs, to take into account the future content of the laws referred to in the parliamentary procedure. We've noticed constant problems. So that's one thing we can talk about later on. And the second thing is that constitutional law committee meetings must be attended by representatives of the proposings, because, despite my different attitude, the Commission has concluded that one law is not discussed at the Commission's meeting because of the failure of the motionor and the request for a postponement is the result. I would ask, since Mr Bevanda is present here, chairing the Council of Ministers, that this, on these issues, be taken seriously, be given the most serious attention in the work of the Council of Ministers, so making laws, legal processing, content of the law, language processing. I'm asking you to pay more attention to that. That's it, thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15357	Thank you. I remind you that we have standard explanations as well as at the previous sessions, but it's no problem to agree to give some further clarifications in the future. The word has a vice-president, Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15358	Dear colleagues and fellow representatives, members of the Council of Ministers, guests. Today, we have several agenda points that are required to be considered by haste. In particular, this is point 5. A request from the SDP and SBB Club for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the availability of immovable military assets under an emergency procedure, and here are two laws concerning the single birth number. So it is two issues that have been the focus of political debates in BiH and the disputes of the past, here for at least two years. And regardless of what I think we can't have serious and procedural reasons to dispute putting these points on the agenda, in my opinion, so the way it's puts it opens up one question whether in fact this parliamentary majority, which has been discussing these issues for the past two years and which supports this Council of Ministers, truly still has a consensus on this Council of Ministers. And if I were the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I would seriously, to put it this way, read these messages and therefore define myself, so. And I have no doubt, so our chairman of the Council of Ministers is a very intelligent person, so he doesn't do it himself. What I mean is, and counterpart Belkić has asked about the agenda, about including these points. Point 5, so the military property I quoted was proposed in this, let me put it this way, the business term as a decision. The College challenged the possibility of a decision being discussed under Article 127, so the proposer concluded that this would be proposed in the form of the law. And I can say, here as a member of the College, I didn't realize yesterday either on the rope or on the Expansive College that we concluded that it is in the agenda today, but we have concluded that it is possible for the proposer to propose it as a part of the agenda today, as a law. But I don't think it matters. So, if you don't find it today, you'll find it next time. The question, however, is what about those decisions we made, as the parliamentary majority. We actually signed an agreement a year ago, the parliamentary majority in which the SDA was in, and this decision follows the principles of military property. But afterwards, the new parliamentary majority reached a political agreement to fully resolve the issue of military and state-owned property and tasked the commission, i.e. the Council of Ministers formed a commission on this basis and is working on it. We still don't know how far the commission has come so that today this law kind of bypasses the parliamentary majority's decisions and, in fact, bypasses the Council of Ministers. As far as the other two single number laws are concerned,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15359	My friend Ljubić, just, here's the time for three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15360	Okay. Thank you very much. I don't know how you know time's up, and there's no display there. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15361	I'm on the clock.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15362	So, as far as the other two laws are concerned, I think that's where one game of politics is going for a long time here and today, by chance, I will personally support one and the other, so whoever gets most of it will pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15363	Thank you. The word has the vice-president, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15364	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members, chairman of the Council of Ministers, members, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to invite all MPs here at Parliament's House of Representatives to try to do our job in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the arrangements given in word or signed agreements and statements, because that is the only way we can make order in both this country and this Parliament. Any transfer of unrest, from institutions that do not do their jobs or people who cannot agree, indirectly to this Parliament, leads us to a position to work under the pressure of people who have gathered in front of us or people who are in any way superior to us. It is not an agreement here in Parliament that, at 5 minutes before the beginning of the session, even 24 hours before the session, they are given the law by 127. Remind me or I'll say it in public, it's a gentleman's agreement in an extended college. That's why I call upon all those who did not honor that agreement to withdraw those laws. We have no reason to have this Parliament as a continuation of the inability to agree in some other places and in some other institutions. We also let the institutions do their jobs and invite them to agree on these laws that we are proposing by the end or by the beginning of the annual holidays. And if they fail to do so, we ask as Parliament that these institutions are replaced by people who cannot agree. This is the relationship in a country where the legislative authority gives a job, the executive authority does the job, if the job is not carried out, the legislative authority is changing. Do not make this Parliament a theater, a place for pre-election campaigns, and make MPs who will propose legal projects in the office sooner. That is why I call upon you to withdraw all these laws, which do not comply with the agreement and the Rules of Procedure, and to continue our regular work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-06-06-0.u15365	Thank you. I find that there are no more reports. I'm closing the agenda debate. 8 After consulting at the College of the House of Representatives, we agreed to take a break. Is that what you are? So, a 30-minute break and we're now calling a session of the extended college. Sit down. [[PAUZA]]
