ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18973	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 59th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. At the 59th session of the House of Representatives, as well as at all previous sessions, our regular guests were regularly invited: the chairmans and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from this session was justified by Milica Marković and Saša Bursać, and the delay at the session was announced by Deputy Chairman Božo Ljubić. According to the information service, 33 MPs are present at this time. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. When it comes to changes and additions to the agenda, I would like to note that point 1 is added to the agenda. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law establishing the Electricity Transfer Company in BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. So, I don't even need to remind myself of the business provisions that talk about it, I hope we've all read them well, about what we can do and what we can talk about during the debate on the agenda. The first application was made for the agenda by Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18974	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the SDS Club, I request a download from the agenda of the first item of the agenda with the following explanation. In fact, we received some letter from the entity prime ministers and the Law that was on the Council of Ministers. It shows that this is about one forgery, not to say maybe even with the elements of the crime. In fact, entity prime ministers sent a letter to the Council of Ministers in which they dictated this 17th change. However, the Law sent to the Council of Ministers, here it is, the secretary of the ministry, who I do not know whether the proposing was authorised, and in addition to this Law, which included this Article 17, which dictated on 7.11., I repeat, entity ministers, opinions have been delivered, now that I do not list, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH, justice, etc. which dates back to July 2012 I ask – how can these opinions be written in advance, a year earlier? And we therefore propose that this point be removed from agenda 2 and we adopt the conclusion that we ask the Council of Ministers to deliver to us all relevant institutions' opinions on this proposed Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18975	I would like to thank Ambassador Pandurević. She used her time to propose to remove this item from the agenda, only I ask, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that you deliver it to us in writing so that the House can precisely declare your proposal. The following came to mind on the agenda, therefore, MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18976	So, I'm going to say something about our position and our relationship to this request. Therefore, it is true that the law is simply seemingly because only three members are being changed, but it is also an exact sentence which is also stated in the explanation that not adopting this Law can produce very serious consequences for the functioning of the system, etc. But it is also true that the adoption of such an emergency law can also have worse consequences for the functioning of this system. Our reasons are that we will be against the inclusion in the agenda by emergency procedure and because of our insufficient information regarding the signatories of the agreement on the basis of which this proposal was based, which practically SDP and SNSD agreed this a year and a few days ago and delivered to the Council of Ministers. So those MPs who have ministers at the Council of Ministers were also informed, unfortunately we do not. Obviously, at least as much as we have insight into this agreement, which is in some way supported in the EU, it is obvious that the conditions have not been met, no matter what some claim they are, to have a conversation, to have talks and dialogue in such a new legal solution. Besides, I have to comment on OHR's behavior in this situation. In our view, rather than calling on MPs not to adopt an emergency procedure and not adopt such a law, the OHR should do a little bit of Annex IX to the Dayton Agreement and intervene a little differently. Thank you very much. So we'll be against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18977	Thank you. So, Mr. Belkić said why this should not also be on the agenda when it comes to the first point proposed. Replica, is it ma'am, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18978	Well, one kind of replica, uh, maybe just one correction. We're sure that the ruling coalition has agreed...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18979	I'm sorry, but who are you replicating?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18980	Mr. Belkić. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18981	I'm Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18982	If that's what you call a replica. If the ruling coalition has agreed to reject this Act by an emergency procedure, then we too will be in emergency proceedings, so we must urgently reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18983	It's a little unusual to have replicas inside the club, but there's that possibility. MP Šefik Džaferović has applied for a discussion on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18984	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. We were invited to a session today to discuss the budget, the budget was delivered or arrived in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on Monday, today is Thursday and we learned that the session was on Thursday. We have our own Home Work Plan that provides for session 30, but the work plan stands if any session needs can be convened before and this is one of those needs, I think the session could and should have been before. It could've even been the 9th night, for example, here on 10th, 11, and here it is 12th today. Okay, so we've been called up for Budget and all of a sudden now that we've entered this hall at the College session, we see that you've decided to extend the agenda to the agenda that has arrived from the Council of Ministers and whose review of the emergency procedures is required. We need you to explain to us what the reasons are so that then an extraordinary session can be held, because that is how we can interpret whether today's session, which has its own justification for the Budget, includes this point that is related to the Power Transfer Company, the amendments and the additions of the Law? Why does it seem, what's the rush, why isn't 30 waiting when we have a scheduled session? Because if it hadn't been for today's debate on the Budget, I'd probably have this law waiting for 30. What's the problem? So, we need to know something before we even discuss whether this should be a part of the agenda today or not, we deserve some explanation. So as a club, we'll be against including this point in the agenda, you've actually put it on, so we'll back it off. And when we talk about it, we'll talk about why we're against it and how destructive the law is, now is not the time to talk about it, but within the framework, if we get to the point of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18985	I thank Ambassador Džaferović. The Republic has an MP, Šemsudin Mehmedović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18986	It may be a little unusual, but not only in the BiH Party, in their club, there's a little bit of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18987	So you're replicating Mr. Džaferović. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18988	Yeah. Mr. Džaferović said that you should explain, in fact I don't think there's anything to explain here are things quite clear, you want to divide 200 million from Elektroprenos and that's why you amended the Law and here you propose such an amendment to the law. Therefore, things are quite clear and you have the number of votes to vote on, but you, I mean it, are doing BiH harm and destroying this public company, the only public company at BiH level and bearing political responsibility for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18989	This wasn't exactly a replica of Mr. Džaferović, because you replicated things he didn't say, but MP Mirsad Đugum has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18990	I thank the chairman. I would just like to say just before the Alliance for a Better Future that we do not support an emergency procedure and that we will not vote for an emergency procedure for well-known reasons, these are the reasons where the EU, with the EU, made a three-step package that needs to be met in order to do some things. I understand the entity's need for additional financial resources, but these same resources don't go into development plans. It is also true that in the proposed section by ousting point c, it is not clear whether or not the Management Board proposes or how it acts on point 2 in the adoption of all proposals for the distribution of profits. For this reason, the SBB will not support an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18991	I find that there is no, we have a replica of Mr. Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18992	Dear Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers with his associates, counterparts and counterparts, Mr. Mehmedović. While you're looking and saying it's your right not to support this, what do you suggest to save BiH? Where are you going to find the money, and right here in this company, I don't know 200 million or something, to save budgets and entities and Budget BiH and municipalities and anyone? What if you don't want this, and of course it's your right not to accept it, what do you propose to save BiH, and you stand for BiH? Once you have concretely come out with the proposal and say, do you need BiH, what kind of BiH you need, what is it possible and is it possible? If you on every bill of law
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18993	A fellow Jovičić's debate is on the agenda, it would not be quite appropriate to open the agenda question – What do you propose to save BiH?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18994	So here's against the agenda point... 5
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18995	..so say... something about it, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18996	It's a rescue, I say in the follow-up here, if this isn't the agenda point they're proposing, it's just a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18997	The Republic has an emissary, Aleksandra Pandurević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18998	I really have to react to this, so I don't see that salvation is neither RS nor BiH to be in debt as much as we can, to dissipate and spend everything we can, it seems to me that we're acting, this country to behave drugically, it always needs an increasing and higher dose. I want to know, in ten years' time, if we're going to have an investment plan, if we're going to have problems with the power grid in ten years, do we have to break this up and then we don't have to, to lose the power grid at all, that's going to break down? We want to know what we're working on, and that's another thing that you're having trouble making up entity budgets, but you should've thought about it when you... spent money and dumped on Telekom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u18999	Replication of the letter Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19000	Dear counterpart Pandurević, that you said in the context of the fact that Elektroprenos as a firm has been recording the increasing income on the account frozen and that nothing is done to strengthen the energy system and that it is blocked funds and that it is your lagging over it, that institution I would understand good intentions. But you don't laminate on the team, you laminate on the part that they intend to assign to entity governments as shareholders. So, above that part, you just slow down, you don't say a single sentence, let's see what is done to get those funds into the energy grid as soon as possible, to step up and make BiH a secure and stable energy system. No Niko, no one from the opposition I've been listening to, all the time... is just how much the entity governments will get. It's in the nature of the opposition, they'd like all the blinking channels they'd say, here's the power that's not able to do it, here you are waiting for us, and we'll spend it when we get there. So, I'm asking you to be consistent and principled, we're talking about what's the key problem, and that's the problem of 300 million frozen assets and the electrotransmitter account that's going to know when it's being used.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19001	Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, second replica. Here you go. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19002	It is not disputed, Mrs. Majkić, that these funds are being unblocked and we are for it, but it must be known how it will be spent. First, we need to know if we have a ten-year investment plan, which is the government's obligation, among other things, for the government to say as one of the shareholders - we have so many costs in the next period, it's so much too much. Not unblock all those funds and send them into the hoarding of budget holes. According to this, what is written here is certain obligations and respected Minister Kovačević agreed with them at the Ministerial Conference in Brussels, and what he agreed to I do not see here in this Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19003	Deputy Chairman Milorad Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19004	It is obvious that the SDS is continuing towards OHR's agenda to propose illegal, non-constitutional and illegal projects, and I will remind you that in the last session it is required to remove the Law under the 127th procedure, that the Law of Elections here be put on the agenda at the request of the OHR, thus repealing the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Slovenia and the Election Law of the Republic of Slovenia and violate the current practice and procedures here. Now the same thing on the OHR's order is required to remove this point that according to 127, you know that according to the Rules of Procedure, we cannot remove the mandatory item of the agenda and do not meet the unconditional OHR requirement because you cannot do it here. You can open this question, not vote for this procedure and ask Mr. Šarović for this law that he took under the mouse when he left the ministry, to return it and compare it to the law we have here. Then let's discuss whether the law is legal, whether the law is authentic and whether the secretary had to write it when the minister took it away. By the way, and the Constitutional Court has not given you the right, so I don't know what to discuss with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19005	Before I give a word to the following person who has been declared for the discussion, I remind you, the debate is being held in accordance with Article 65. I also warn the Rules of Procedure of Rule 71 relating to the derogation from the agenda. Ambassador Anto Domazet has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19006	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to point out that this bill has the full justification most in the context of the measures taken to reactivate this organisation. I will remind the three groups of measures that the EU and OHR and international officials are currently insisting on. The first of these measures is to elect a new credibility management of Electrotransmitters, the measure will be realised as early as December 18th. The second measure is related to the decision to adopt financial reports and audit reports for the period from 2007 to 2012, the measure will be implemented on 23.12 at the session of the Elektroprenos Assembly. And the third measure concerning the investment plan will be implemented by the new management that will take place on this issue from the beginning, from the beginning of the first month of 2014, so here is a key issue concerning this Law, so that the position of Elektroprenos is fully restructured and this proposal should also be seen in this context, which allows for the distribution of the winnings based on decisions of the seven authorities. I just want to remind you that there are very incompetent interpretations and public statements in the results of this company, namely the accumulated profit of the company period 2007. - 2012 is 130 million marks, and free funds on the account of this company are 301 million. So they were created mostly from unauthorized depreciation. Therefore, in each country of modern democracy, the market economy in which there are public enterprises is government and parliament regulates and benefits dividends, i.e. funds from the profits of public companies for the purpose of achieving the objectives of economic policy. We do nothing else, and this Law just allows the competent authorities to act without restrictions that were originally established for 10 years, and now it is seen, and from the analysis of this situation that this deadline is no obstacle to all plans, everything that needs to be done by the means available in this organization. Thank you very much. The SDP club will, of course, support the Council of Ministers' proposal and emergency procedure to discuss this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19007	So we're still on the agenda. Mr. Domazet, on behalf of the club, explained why this should be the point of the agenda today. Replica, I Domazet, has counterpart Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19008	Well, she's in the direction of, uh, the arguments that this argument made by MP Domazet is not standing, so everything is true what is said, but when it comes to deadlines and order, I disagree. So, by December 2012, one, two, three, four, five points should have been done before the law was passed, among other things most of those you mentioned would be done afterwards. So that's the problem, Professor, the order, the deadlines, so five moves that were signed and agreed and then the law was changed, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19009	poslanik Džaferović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19010	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am in my first report thinking that you chairing will insist on your request to speak only of the agenda, I was only talking about the agenda. But you weren't consistent, you let Mr. Domazet talk about things that don't concern directly including or not including this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19011	Well, that's not true. The man was saying why this should be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19012	You let Mr. Domazet explain the essence of the Law itself, and you should also train on it as you train on everyone else, and I support you to respect the Rules of Procedure, but you do it when someone steps in and out of your club. 8 And now let me answer to Mr. Domazet, I now publicly say that here I am departing from
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19013	Was this a business or a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19014	This is a replica of you and Mr. Domazet, let me replicate now, I have time unless you want to interrupt me, if you're free to say it, it's no problem at all. You're not a consistent chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19015	Mr. Džaferović, you have your time, I'll answer your loans. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19016	You're not consistent, so I'm just telling you that you're not consistent. And to you, Mr. Domazet, the law that was passed in 2004, he made it clear – 10 years of shareholders do not have any share in the company's profits at all, everything the Company achieves goes into its development. For 10 years, the company's development is blocked, accumulated on this or that basis on the account of a 300 million-dollar asset and is now not waiting in 2016 to get into what should have been spent by the Company in its development, that's the problem. You think we don't see that, that thing, that sees the whole world, sees the European Commission, but you don't see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19017	Mr. Dzaferovic's MPs are discussing the agenda, some have discussed and suggested that we download the agenda points, which we will only be able to show ourselves about, to see if this is possible given that mandatory agenda points are. And others spoke in favor of the agenda. There is therefore no inconsistencies. Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19018	I really have one dilemma, one question and one question to my colleague Domazet – is he really behind his words? And I'm going to repeat what I just did as a replica, and it was actually a supplement because there's no business opportunity for anything else, if this discussion by my colleague Domazet was just a moment ago and the arguments he made and the support of an emergency procedure in the direction of urgent rejection of this Act, then we totally agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19019	Replica has Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19020	Thank you, Chairman. Here we brought out essentially several colleagues who spoke in favor of the means of emergency procedure and against emergency procedure. I believe that the amendments and additions of this Act are necessary in any case, but here are the chairmans of the Council of Ministers, Ministers of Finance and 9 individual members of the Council of Ministers, which by emergency procedure, what will happen if the procedure is shortened or the regular procedure is not an emergency procedure? All that we've heard, this stands, the arguments here stand, so these money stands, it takes the state, but it's a shame that 301 million is in the account of some of the commercial banks where the interest is probably 0.5.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19021	WeJurišić talking about the agenda here, are these download or download contributions?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19022	So watch the chairman see that today you're trying, which is good, to run... debates and replicas on... that's good, that's good, because last time wasn't exactly like that. I don't think there's any valid reason for an emergency procedure that these here are proposed by individual candidates and that's the Council of Ministers' proposal. Because this isn't the Council of Ministers since yesterday, it's been going on for two years, so they could have suggested and seen something in advance, and not say that now, some difficult situation is now and that we need to do it by an emergency procedure, because I think we should first discuss this whole company, because this company has its own management which they have appointed, so entity governments together with the Council of Ministers of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19023	I thank Mr. Jurišić, who spoke specifically about what to do with the agenda today. We have a replica, Ambassador Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19024	Thank you. This is exactly what Mr Domazet said, the part that goes in favor of that and where we will not support this emergency procedure, we are absolutely in favour of a procedure that should go to Parliament to discuss and discuss this law by regular procedure, so that amendments can act on this. But the proof is that we don't have absolute preconditions for emergency procedures, we don't have this, we don't have a simple operating body, we don't have financial reports, we don't have an investment plan. If that's what needs to be done, and if it's going to be done this month, it's absolutely no problem that it's going in the regular procedure and that it's working and that we're going to see where it really is. We don't know what dividend is now, this is a regulatory agency, we don't know what dividend is, and at this point we still need to respect the part that was signed with the EU last year that the order of steps will be taken according to the agreement. We see that it hasn't been done over the past year, we absolutely don't mind going into the developmental investment part, the resources we have in dividends to use both governments. And I think that's exactly where we said we wouldn't support the emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19025	Ambassador Adnan Bašić wants to talk about proposing new and leaving out optional agenda points. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19026	No, to tell you the truth, I totally agree with the president of my club and many others who think this isn't for an emergency procedure. I'm under the circumstances that Mr. Lozančić and I are from Kaknja, and here there's Tuzlak, the system of complete electricity cannot be separated without affecting the current, a complete flow across the country. It's a very flexible system, you know, it works on the principle of connected vessels, you produce water energy, or, like in our case, coal, you produce electricity. You send this electricity with an electric transmission, the power distribution is distributed to the consumer's final, all of it is urousally tied. A great storm has caused the public disdain, which usually comes down, and especially some who call it the yellow press, to put all the accent on someone trying to steal 100 million marks. You know how it all works in this country. And now we're all accused of supporting this theft, of giving you some light from that point of view. It is not true or we want all these segments to be clear in the ordinary procedure, to see what it is and to calm down, because we are the top of this country in the legislative system, it is a very crucial law for every country with an electricity economy of a country not to play, because it is very easy to collapse, and you know what that means. So, please, I'm here to ask you one more time that this doesn't go according to emergency procedures, to vote for a regular procedure, and to clarify everything that needs to be clarified that our decision would be the right one and that we wouldn't continue to be spit on like we're spit on by a lot of other laws that unfortunately we're making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19027	I'm finishing up the list of persons registered to discuss the agenda. So the debate on the agenda is closed. I am calling a session of the extended College and I am giving a break of 10 minutes before the vote on the daily, or before the clarification of the vote on the SDS proposal. - It's 11:00. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please take your seats. We continue with the 59th session of the House of Representatives. So we held a short session of the Extended College, explained the business specifics, so we can now conclude that the 59th session of the House of Representatives has the following agenda: Agenda 1. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law establishing the Electricity Transfer Company in Bosnia and Herzegovina after 11 emergency procedures, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-58/13, of 10.12.2013. 2. Proposal for a Bill on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014, Proposer: BiH Presidency, Law No: 01,02-02-1-57/13, of 9.12.2013. (first reading) We're moving on to the agenda. First item of the agenda. Ad.1. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law establishing the Electricity Transfer Company in BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19030	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this Law is by no means a place in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and should not be adopted, and especially should not be adopted by principle take or leave, so by emergency procedure. It's a very serious matter for BiH. It's not a simple thing, and it's not a problem in 100 million, or 300 million marks, as far as it's concerned right now. Here is the problem in the future of the power transmission network in BiH. In BiH, 10 years from the moment of establishment, the adoption of the Law in 2004, the establishment of a company, while today, it has been blocking and blocking the development and work, the normal work of this company. There's nothing invested in the company, the funds are accumulated. Article 17. The law is a problem in the eyes of some in BiH, which says the company cannot distribute its shareholders, shareholders either through dividends or otherwise over a period of 10 years after the company's registration. All net revenue will be used, so all net revenue will be used only for the needs of reserves, repairs, improvements and extensions of the transmission system. 10 years of position 3 after the company's registration, the Management Board may grant the distribution of profits to shareholders in dividends or otherwise, in the amount and under the conditions which are in accordance with this Act, Statute and conscious financial management of the company. Therefore, the existing Law does not allow 10 years from the establishment of the company, until 2016, to spend the trade mark on tefirm for any other purpose, except for the development of the company, its renewal and strengthening. For 10 years, funds have been blocked and nothing is done.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19031	My colleague Džaferović, you can see for yourself that I have left you the opportunity to talk and you have not said a single word about an emergency procedure. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19032	The elekropinos are collapsing
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19033	And it's an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19034	You could at least shut up like Domazet you kept quiet, and I have a lot of reasons, I'm talking about the agenda point and I'm talking about why
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19035	Well, in that case, be consistent. So when you call on the agenda, then discuss the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19036	Mr. Bećirović, maybe you're upset with what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19037	On the contrary, the House will be made clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19038	You're the chairman of the House and I should be as valuable to you as the representative here, as everyone, these colleagues in front of me, from your party, and so do you. You're not the moderator here within a panel, so to behave the way you behave, you're the chairman here, the first among the equals.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19039	Mr. Džaferović, my tasks are specified by Rule 27 and you return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19040	And I only remind you of these provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which regulate your work. I'm not doing anything anymore. So 10 years blocking this company's work, blocking investment. The funds are being accumulated. These funds, if the normal relationship with that company were not in the account today, it would have been spent. After a major blockade, it's said - let's now pass the law to change this, to delete the provision, that we can take those funds from the account, and that seems to be the case. In addition to the European Commission's warning, in addition to the company's warning, so everyone, this seems to be. Why are you doing this? So, I think this is going to cause devastating consequences for this company, and that is why I don't think this law should be debated by emergency procedure. He can go after he's here, in the regular procedure, and he needs to be turned down. So, this law is harmful to BiH, harmful to this company and in my opinion, it cannot and should not get the green light in this Parliament. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19041	The replica has a letter, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19042	So, what I'm saying is, I disagree and it doesn't stand for any of what Mr. Džaferović said. But I propose to this House to allow the opposition to shake out all the fire she's prepared for this session and to continue to work normally afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19043	Before I give my word to the next MPs, I just have to say, so we're discussing an emergency procedure, but you're all witnessing that it's very difficult to distinguish when it's a matter of emergency procedure, and when we're entering into the core of the problem, so don't expect it, we never could, nor will we be able to make a sharp line. I plead for a little more tolerance and mutual respect, and less accusations of a guy whether we're consistent or inconsistencies. Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19044	I thank the chairman. I'll start with Mrs. Majkić's replica. There's no opposition fire here, but it is a high voltage that deserves special care. And I will discuss the agenda, that is, the procedure in favor of not pleading on this Act by an urgent procedure or by an urgent procedure. Ah, here's the argument. I will remind you of the conclusions of the meeting of the Ministers of Energy, along with Mr Stefan Sanin in November 2011. When the proposal for an action plan was established, with the date of December 2012, so a year ago, where it was necessary for the Parliament of Shareholders of Elektroprenos to determine the amendments and additions to the Statute of Elektroprenos, to appoint a temporary management structure, to re-schedul the competition, to give the order to the temporary administration to perform a consolidated financial report within 60 days and to give a report on the work groups formed in the previous Assembly, etc. Of course, an independent audit has been asked, so all that is said by fellow Domazet. This was to be completed last year in December 2012. As a step 2, in this plan of activity, as scheduled for February 2013, is the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Electrotransmitters. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food So here we are going to step 2 immediately without any previous actions, regardless of the delay of one year now, I would like to mention, it is not by chance that the adoption of the amendment and addition of the Law on Electrotransmitters was envisaged after the Assembly of Shareholders of Electrotransmitters with a few mentioned agendas. So if we were to adopt this Law today, we would make not only a change of agenda and a change of order, but a drastic determination of what should have been done as a previous step. And that's why I just told my colleague Domazet if he's really convinced of what he's talking about. I want to remind you, so of course we will be against an emergency procedure, namely the adoption of this law. Moreover, we appreciate that if the Law were to go in regular procedure, it would leave the possibility of achieving these previous actions and honouring this proposed, or adopted agenda and what the Ministers of Energy had committed to, almost two years ago, or if there is indeed a real will here today to reject this Act by an urgent procedure, then we will also support such an item. 14 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19045	The discussion of the emergency procedure was also reported by the half-satellite Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19046	I thank the chairman. Of course we're against emergency procedures. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović presented a good part of the activity plan here. I must say that there was a similar law once in the procedure and he was withdrawn because of these conclusions from the Brussels meeting, which was attended by entity ministers, responsible for this issue, where some recommendations were made and I will remind you that the Council of Ministers unanimously held at the 41st session held on 7 March, adopted a series of activities and deadlines related to Elektropres and tasked the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to prepare, in accordance with the attached opinions and proposed order of activity, the draft law on amendments and additions to this law that we are discussing here today. The Law was prepared in accordance with the Council of Ministers' conclusion and on 2 April 2013, sent to entity governments to give their opinion. The entity governments never delivered their opinion and did not, I'm sorry that esteemed counterpart Živković is not here, to tell him, there is no need, is not Minister Šarović taking the law under his mouse. This zakom can be found in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. What we have in front of us today, this text is quite contrary to the conclusion of the Council of Ministers for which I recall, voted by all ministers in the Council of Ministers, and later, when it is in regular procedure, of course since I assume an emergency procedure will fall, we will also discuss, if we do not have an activity plan, an investment plan, if the Assembly of Shareholders did not adopt it, how much resources can be shared? So the balance sheet on the power Elektroprenos says he's in credit. Does this mean, and it appears that two political parties have failed to share all 100 million, when they share all 100 million that Elektroprenos will have to borrow again, will he be able to repay, because now he has a loan of 117 million marks? Let's see how much, let's see the investment plan within 10 years, how much money it takes, so let's see. If there's anything extra to share, let's not argue at all. But we need to know, we can't take as much as anyone who likes it, to save entity governments, to patch up budget holes, which is Mrs. Majkić, although you smile, the RS finance minister said publicly, Mr. Zoran Tegelti needs this money for public spending, not for investment in RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19047	Replica, MP Drago Kalabić, with the recommendation that you try if at all possible, personally, not to call each other, because we know what position we are in, when the avalanche of replicas takes place. Here's a colleague of Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19048	I understand your recommendation to the chairman, and you, too, should have warned the ignorant parties about having a legal department, if not in the Constitutional Court and then in the Sarajevo Vodavod, that they could get legal aid and not distract us with suggestions. Because it's democratically the right of each of us to speak, I won't say what he wants, but he needs to make sure he doesn't force another to listen to what he doesn't want to hear. 15 The vital national interest of the RS and all citizens of RS, and I assume the Federation is that this law is passed. I assume that all reasonable MPs from the RS will vote for this, this is not the Law for the government, for the political party, this is a general act that will be applied by all governments, by all the authorities that do not matter which political parties. This is the right of the RS and the Federation to manage how and in what way it will be evaluated by auditors and citizens in elections and everything else. It is extremely incorrect, it is unfair to take away the tools of those to whom they belong, while trying to do so, but I wanted to tell those who are for the blockade, those who are for the existing status quo that is, we know what it is, trying to challenge some unbulkable structures to rappy institutions, now I'm telling the RS, and I absolutely mean the Federation, to have what they've set up. About how and what they're going to do and whether they're legally illegal, that's what other institutions are going to say, like all the other things they're going to do. So I don't know how the others will vote, but this is the law on the future, and I suppose all RS MPs will vote for this law because this is the vital national interest of all RS citizens and yet I say the Federation's thoughts, with respect of all procedures.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19049	So we're discussing an emergency procedure request, replicas relating to the agenda point. Here's a colleague of Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19050	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, in support of your position to really make our statement and vote on who is in favour of emergency procedure 127 will show all other views and who is against, will show everything else that he can't say today, because it's not on the agenda. It's an emergency procedure. Let me tell my colleague Pandurević, just as a digression, so you suggested here and convinced us that we couldn't choose new members of the Council of Ministers, that we were waiting for the Constitutional Court to decide, and we've been introducing you all day that the SNSD knew the procedure, that the Constitutional Court wasn't in charge of that, and you heard last night that he wasn't in charge. And now reassurance us with something that someone will spend money, there's Tegeltija, the finance minister, he'll collect it himself, or the government of the RS. Well, everyone's gonna benefit from this. And come on, Mr. Chairman, not taking the right to speak to anyone, but by supporting the College's proposal to make a statement about 127. each vote will show its own position whether for everything that includes this law, the bill's proposal, and the sharing of those pairs, including those who are against, and those who say they will be destroyed, that company, I say that it will not, but will be strengthened, that we just vote and say, goes towards an emergency procedure. Most people will decide whether it's 127 or not. Whoever is in the minority will see why their goals have not remained, and that is absolutely clear. There's no other story.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19051	Thank you, Mr. Jovičić. The Republic has an MP, Mladen Bosić. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19052	So the discussion continues to disqualify both personally and collectively. And come on, let's do it, I'll kind of look back at what my colleagues at SNSD said. Don't twist the thing. So RS is co-owner of a joint venture with the Federation in Elektroprenos BiH. And that's a fact. And she has rights based on this co-ownership, co-ownership role, she has the right to decide how this company will develop. And it's no problem, we're not against having the Elektropenos funds back to whoever owns it. Here's the second question. What's the reason and what's the point of doing it this way, in an emergency procedure in a hurry and without a plan of investments that should maintain that network of elektroprenos. If the funds were to go to the RS with the rehabilitation and development of the RS Elektroprivreda, for the construction of new electrocapacity or for the maintenance of transmission systems, we would have nothing to do with it. This is about the worst thing that's wrong. This is about the intention that these funds, which should keep in the future the energy system and transfer to BiH to both entities, spend on other things that have created gaps in budgets, due to irrational spending and planning in the previous period. So here we are now spending those funds that should strengthen the energy sector in the future, to things that have nothing to do with it and leave that sector not only without the funds, but also in the losses, that is, the loans to be recovered. So I'm warning you here our position is related to the lack of a plan and the failure of the company in the area of maintenance of the system. If an investment plan had been adopted, it was clear what it takes and how much it takes to spend on investments, so that the system would function in the future properly, we wouldn't mind. We will gladly submit an amendment in this sense, with only one fence, all this is fine, only with one fence that it must be after the adoption of the plan and the reservation of funds to maintain the functioning of the system.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19053	Correction of the wrong allegation. Ambassador Drago Kalabić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19054	Well, you see, Mr. Bosić, the attack is the best defense when you don't have the arguments for what you have to say, then, but well, here we leave it. If I were to, and absolutely agree with the first two sentences of your discussion, but if you were consistent, you would suggest another way and your former minister to solve this issue and to allow RS what you were talking about. That's not true. You're not telling the truth. You're even trying to make none of this go away today and keep what you know, and that's the block. If you were honest with the RS, you'd have a better suggestion now. You had it during your term of office, your minister. No, you're absolutely against RS managing this, and today you're looking exclusively for ways to keep this from going away and that without any alternative, your intentions towards RS institutions are not sincere. And I do not entirely dispute your relationship with the political parties that are in power and which, speculation, speculation that someone will mismanage and take away the institution of the RS the right to manage is disastrous for, and such a way of thinking in this Parliament we from the RS will never accept and admit, does not delay anyone's right to criticise the way of managing public good, public resources, to the pain of critically discussing, to process. But to take away the powers, and to hand those powers over to someone else, which belongs to the RS and at the same time to the Federation, I don't think it's correct. I don't think you're into that OHR trap, not even OHR suggests what you're proposing. Even the OHR invites us to think about it. And you are today explicitly, persistently, vigorously seeking to bring this down without any message to the citizens of the RS how to come to manage these funds. Which government or which minister will that, 17 shoot down this government? Bring in another government, but give it to the institutions of the RS, allow them to manage what you just said and do not dispute that it belongs to them. Let them manage, so let's see how they do, but at speculation, I don't think it's correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19055	Correction of the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19056	Dear Mr. Bosić, when you said the very essence, and the bottom line is, who's going to offer you an investment program at the moment this institution doesn't work for years? The CEO of Elektroprenos can sign orders up to 10,000 marks, so he can't sign a warrant for anything. Other management structures, the deadline has expired and it is practically a company that barely works. What you said would be quite okay and say hello if that were possible. But in the condition in which Elektroprenos is located, with the structure he currently owns, which all deadlines have expired, there is no easy possibility of that. So, in this consolidation of forces, it was logical to wonder why this Parliament did not launch a story and debate on the development of Elektroprenos before two shareholders were agreed within the Electrotrans. Good intentions would be seen by that. It's clear to me that the opposition doesn't want to go that way, when it comes to spending, any cent goes away. It is your right, understandable and largest opposition parties in the Federation as well as in the RS. That's clear. But don't look for anything impossible. So the amendment that you'd say, we're not going to, to agree to it until the moment we have a clear investment plan, is about that it's an impossible mission. Who's going to do it and who's going to adopt that investment plan? You know that for years there's been a conflict and that the relationship between the two shareholders was such that the company was brought into the position it was in. So this is one of the attempts of a little shift to get things moving. Don't be unaccompanied and don't worry about what's possible in a company like this right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19057	Second replica, MP Mladen Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19058	So you see, Mrs. Majkić, it certainly wasn't a shift in the electrical system and let me tell you, it was my profession. It's me, so I know what I'm talking about. It's not a shift not to consider that this system requires development and maintenance. You have to bear in mind that it costs. It's an expensive system. And it's not a shift to take what should go for development and maintenance and reroute to other obligations, because we're saying there's no one to make an investment plan. Let's not be hypocritical. If this organization is in charge of doing its job, no matter what I don't like and what I'd like it to be on the entity level, but if it already exists and if it is in charge, let's see who made the obstruction, who's to blame why didn't that institution make a plan for the development of an energy or transmission system? Who blocked the possibility of that happening? Let's make a bill. That you proposed the law, since this institution proved unable to do so. Let's make a law to exempt these powers from that institution and transfer them to the entity's power plants. Wouldn't that be a good solution? Isn't that the solution we're talking about? So I'm saying there was obstruction here. I'm saying that because of obstruction, it's been brought into this state, and that's no excuse for these funds to be rerouted to other purposes. Excess funds, if there is, and there is, should be shared by shareholders and that is not disputed. It should divide 18 Federations and RS, because they are the money of entities, because entities are co-owners of the company. But it needs to reserve what should keep the system alive and make it possible for the future. We run the money that's meant for the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19059	Replica has an emissary, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19060	I'm sorry that my esteemed colleague Kalabić isn't here, but I do have to react because he was here to honor the SDS why we didn't do it. Here is Act 2 April, addressed to the Ministry of Industry and Mining of the Republic of Slovenia, on 2 April 2013, in line with the conclusion of the Council of Ministers. These changes and additions have been made. From April 2nd to April, no entity ministry has sent any comments or suggestions to the Law that was made in accordance with the plan of activities adopted at the Council of Ministers' meeting. The truth is, Mr. Kalabić was not at that meeting, President Bosić remembers that. At a meeting of two political parties on the functioning of our platform, Mrs Cvijanović told Mr. Šarović that this is a good law. However, something opposed later, Minister Kovačević, but never again, we heard here some false accusations, that the SDS did not do its part of the job and it was good that someone from the ministry, I hope the future minister will seek out this old law and perhaps direct it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19061	Ambassador, Šefik Džaferović has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19062	Mr. Chairman, just one warning. For future development, not to say that it wasn't brought out here in the House of Representatives. So, the aim of this law is to divide 100 million. It can't be divided all 300. So that's to divide a certain part of these funds. I am merely warning that this is not done by emergency procedure, that it is not possible to share and even to pass this Law, these funds are today meant for the needs of reserves, repairs, improvements and extensions of the transmission system. It is not possible to change this, and then to use the funds that are intended until the moment this Law applies for other purposes. These funds, even if you change this law, must remain for the purpose for which they are intended. Anyone who decides to move into these funds, for some other purpose, will do in my opinion serious abuse of official office and I only point out this as a warning, and I ask you once to stop in yourself or out loud, throw it while I discuss it. There you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19063	The word has an MP, Salko Sokolović. And I remind all the other MPs that it would be at least a turn to listen to their colleagues, but when I warn them, I warn everyone. Here you go, colleague Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19064	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I say hello to everyone, I say hello.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19065	Comrade Džaferović, here and now allow colleagues to,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19066	Just give my two colleagues a little bit. Okay, well, I've been waiting for the replicas, and I'm not going to say anything much new, especially when it comes to the position of the SDA that Mr. Džaferović put forward, but here's when it comes to an emergency procedure, just to comment on a few sentences that were made here at the request of the Council of Ministers, that this matter be discussed by an urgent procedure. Maybe some misunderstanding, let me share here with my colleagues. It is said that it is about a bill that is not complex and large and which is formulated in a unique way. And I agree with the fact that the Law is not ordinary, but it is not only that reason for the Law to be considered by some legal decision in an emergency procedure. We need to know what the substance of this legal solution is both in emergency and in some other procedures. And here we really have one essential thing, and then we can't identify with two sentences that it's not a large, complex law. Because basically, we need to talk about the essentials. We can't take it or leave it, how it's proposed to accept it here and not talk about it, because the essence gives us weight to something. Here is the specific weight of this legal solution. Furthermore, what confuses me in this or in some way, in this brief explanation of the Council of Ministers, it is said that if the procedure were to be a regular pathway, it could produce negative consequences in the work of Elektroprenos dd Banja Luka, and thus the electricity system in BiH. This is my funny line. So if we solve it today, we won't have negative consequences, if we solve it in seven days, we have disastrously negative consequences or what the consequences are, because we haven't solved these seven years behind us. I mean, when there's an explanation for the laws in the emergency procedure, there's still a different way to address the MPs. I don't think this is the right way, and it's not convincing enough to have me here, and I believe that all of us here are being directed in the direction that we are talking in this way about the need to accept this legal solution in an emergency procedure. Now that we move on to the period of law-making, so when we see it say, the prime ministers of the Federation of BiH and RS confirmed once again the necessity of amending Article 17. The law establishing the BiH Power Transfer Company in the profit distribution section, which is of particular interest to both entities. What we do not know specifically, but what I have heard from the means of information, that these funds are actually already embedded in entity budgets. And maybe that's why an emergency procedure is the need to resolve this issue in this way today. Next, I have to repeat these few sentences that we have mentioned so far, that it means an investment plan is necessary. Who's responsible for why we didn't have that investment plan? It doesn't matter, we're criticizing management here, and here's Mr. Bosić's discussion before me, and I was going to say it, so I'm going to say it again. So, who's responsible for why we don't have that investment plan and
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19067	My kolega Sokolović, not to be accused, we can take what you're saying for reasons why we're against an emergency procedure, or you, right? 20
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19068	Yeah, let's talk procedure, and I'm talking procedure. My lawyer has accepted that I am still talking about the procedure. So why haven't we solved that question before? Why haven't we crossed the issue before, the responsibilities of the existing management, got an investment plan and saw how this means should be directed towards strengthening the energy sector. The procedure is and my concern is that I want to have a stable energy transmission in BiH, because it is one of the valuable goods that this country can take out and make money. Why should we endanger this system or what someone said, that due to such a poor quality of Electropenos, BiH citizens remain in the dark tomorrow? Taking these resources, passed on to life, means eating seeds, not sowing them that in some period of time we have a larger amount of which we will live and sell and still keep it for life. Here is Mr. Kalabić, I will say that this material is a vital interest of the people and citizens of the BiH state, not of the peoples and citizens of the BiH entities, but of the peoples and citizens of the BiH state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19069	The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19070	I will really try not to repeat myself or not to repeat what people have said even though it will be very difficult, but I will be brief and in the direction of underlining an argument that says that we should not consider and adopt this by an urgent procedure, because it is really important things and with the aggravation of consequences, of course if we have a consensus on the need for the existence of this Company and its quality work in the future. I hope that as founders, or those who have passed the Law on this Company, we have this consensus that this company needs this country. So, I will repeat, the key reason for the existence of an investment plan and the absence of those reports that should have been considered before the law was passed, in the administration, in the newly elected administration of the new Assembly, etc. So these are the reports that apply, refer to the 110 kilowatt network, refer to the relationship with the operator, etc. Unfortunately, I'm not professional enough to know what this is about, but there are people who understand better than I do and they probably know it. I'm sure it's important, and there's no such thing as that, either. Investment plans were not adopted because the first steps were not met. So no Assembly was held, no new management structure was selected, etc. who was supposed to do this. So to conclude, it doesn't make sense, until we have all this information, to share it in class. We don't know, we just don't know without that investment plan, what they're going to do and whether they're going to stay free to share at all. What if this investment plan and those analyses and those reports that are planned in those steps, etc. show that the state of the network is etc. such that it cannot be enough to bring it into a normal situation, and to endanger the functioning of the energy system and, of course, the overall economy. I'm not familiar with it, but it gets me pretty busy and I'm thinking about it, I don't know if the entities, they've brought their budgets, did they calculate this on their own side? So if so, if so, we'll look like this good cow that gives milk, slowly choke. Thank you very much, and that's why we are absolutely against emergency procedures and solutions like this, without achieving these previous points that I'm talking about. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19071	We have another replica and one discussion, and then we move on to the Budget debate. Replica, MP Darko Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19072	Well, here I thought Mr. Kalabić and colleague Živković would return, but since I can see they won't, I have to tell them. So she keeps respecting and bonding with OHR, she thinks they're extremely incorrect and hypocritical. So these claims my colleagues made speak more of them than they say of us. As far as the agenda is concerned, I don't want to comment, my colleagues said everything, but I had to say this, and I thought he'd come back, and since they're gone, I tried to be brief and polite, not to cause another replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19073	Ambassador, Mirza Kušljugić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19074	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives. It's a short introduction first. If you remember, I've been asking for an energy debate in this House for the first year. I took it in writing, and it didn't go away. Then several times, when it was the Derk Report, I initiated the debate, and this is the smallest problem that exists in BiH's energy. Electrotransmission is the least of the problems. There's 300 million marks there. What are the other problems? We had a chance to organise a debate the other day, which was also the director of the Energy Community. We, like the Foreign Affairs Commission, have sent a letter to all ministries to intervene, to create a document called the concept of the development of the energy strategy, including the concept of the development of the transmission network. Because if we don't do it on 31.12, according to the director of the Energy Community, there's a danger of losing 100 million euros in grenades. So this is a very, very short introduction. If the problem is the concern of parliamentarians, will the Transition be able to survive and continue to develop, then I can give you some information that is quite enough to decide on the basis of common sense, whether it is possible by emergency procedure to make decisions without lagging aside the Transfer, to be simplified whether it is. Who's to blame for having 300 million? There is no political party or one or two are there, which has not been since 2006 in some way the authorities and are all guilty of being blocked. Not to mention, of the current ministers of entity, state ministers, so don't throw ourselves away now, someone's guilty. Obviously, the problem was political and essential, not only about Elektroprenos, but about the regulation of the electricity sector, about an independent system operator, etc. Whether to resolve it, it's obviously something that depends on how much political will there is, to compromise and to give up on what's been suggested here, which was the first problem for Elektroprenos to be divided into three companies. So, you're going back. I don't think that's good and it didn't go well. The second proposal was to electrotransmitter the 110 kilowatt network..... Elektropyrvede, it's an opportunity for Mr. Bosić to say that one part cannot be given the whole network. There are also acceptable manufacturers. That's not a good idea either. 22 But here's a fortune in the company that has 300 million in account. It is 120 employees whose annual income is 135 million marks. Their income depends on the margin defined by the Regulatory Commission. So the Regulatory Commission is tracking and the transfer can't be in the gigitka. He can't be lost. The transmission network can't be lost. The transmission network must have the possibility of its work and development. Of 135 million, 41 million is labour force and every year 51 million is allocated depreciation. So, from an opportunity of 200 million or about 170 million is a neutral depreciation that stands and cannot be touched by anyone, by law. If we take that there are currently started projects in Elektrotronos since 2007, 37 million, which can't be realised. The company's obviously blocked, it can't make it happen. A very short bill, if the electrotransmitter remains like this, then this 170 million he has in his account, he won't be able to realise for the next 10 years. So the goal is very clear. Do we want to unblock elektroprenos and under 2nd yes, it is and I think we should talk about it openly. The shareholder's intensity is that part of the money that 130 million gets the net profit divided, as they share Telekom, as they share other things. And it's not a secret either. That should cover the lividity in the next month or two. Let's go from ourselves, because to cover the liquidity, we have a problem with the IMF. So don't let us talk about something in a circle. You know exactly what's going on. Is it to preserve governments or to preserve the liquidity of the entire state? Both entities are in trouble. Let's talk openly about emergency procedures. So, here, these are the elements that contribute to this, either in the ER or in the regular procedure, we're going to have to consider it. I don't see much difference. These numbers won't change. They're like this. Yeah, he's got 110 million credits. And that's why the international community has blocked for 10 years. No development, Elektroprenos, they blocked the money, so it would be a margin enough for a World Bank loan to be returned to the European Bank. There was no particular reason for further development of the network. As for the development of the network, we can discuss it, but not to bother you with the team. Our network, the transmission network should be modernised, but the total transmission value is about 900 million marks. Whatever we're doing with 300 million, 900 million, so you can't do the flow in five years. So don't be afraid in time that if we make a decision to divide 100 million into shareholders, it will endanger the further development of the prenos. I guess these are the simple numbers I'm telling you, they're not very complicated to understand. You can vote against all of this, but don't hide behind other things, then vote against the liquidity of both budgets and let it be seen what happens in January and February. That, not to hide, that's it. I think we have enough information today to make decisions with credibility. No need, we don't need any additional information. And in the end, you don't have to be afraid of elektroprenos at all if he gets into trouble, the Regulatory Commission increases the margin, they can never be lost. A public company like Elektroprenos must not, it cannot lose. She can't come, it's not Telekom, it's a different company. She can't come to a loss. Remember, the biggest problem is the blockade in which we all participated, all entity ministers, prime ministers and state-level ministers, and we didn't want to engage in problem-solving, thinking that energy could develop at entity level, where jurisdiction is clearly not possible. I guess we're aware that we have to come up with common plans on this. And if from this discussion, my point was, if we realize from this discussion that by the end of the year we have to write five pages to say what we're going to do in the energy sector, so we don't get in a position to lose 100 million euros in IPA donation funds, which are the words of the Energy Community, I'll be pleased to hear that today we're having a debate, whatever you're voting on the Elektroprenos. If it's clear that we have to do this together, I think we're about to start and solve something. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19075	I thank Dr. Kušljugić both as an MP and as a man who is an expert in the field of energy. The Republic is owned by Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19076	I wouldn't fully agree with an esteemed colleague. So it's not questionable that what's extra is going to be divided. But we need to know what that surplus is. We need to know how many of us, some draft there is that the Shareholders' Assembly has never adopted, a draft of investments that says that in the next 10 years we need about 800 million marks. If we start with that assumption, then this is the balance sheet on 31.12.2012. And he says the unallocated profit, 122.895,000 Obligations per, long-term credti pardon, 117.223.266 KM. And as you said, the depreciation funds are about 51 million a year. So 51 million times 10 years, 510 million, of which we need to repay this loan and we have this profit of 100 million, we need, the only thing we're asking is, let's see the investment plan. Let's see how much we can divide, it's not controversial. If you can divide all 122 million, that we don't have to borrow later, that we don't have to go into other obligations, let them divide, but let's see the calculation, let's see the mathematics that can be divided. And that's all we ask and expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19077	Ambassador Salko Sokolović has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19078	Well, I'm very interested in Mr. Kušljugić. I'm glad he said the point where these funds go and fill in the entity budgets, but who's the end-user, loser, Mr. Kušljugić, when you mentioned this margin? So the margin is going to increase, and who's the ultimate loser in that story? Who's gonna calm that down?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19079	Ambassador Mirza Kušljugić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19080	There is no Electroprenos in Europe that finances its development from cash. These are the most favourable loans you can get. These are Ibiardi loans, these are the loans this company has taken and which it is now returning. Not going in as you got to 800 million, as you came to the figure that a company of 900 million values should in the next 10 years 800 million, not entering that mathematics at all. If you make a simple calculation, the biggest problem and efficient companies that are public and must work on public procurement, it will be that for the next 3 or 4 years in general spends funds on any tender. And one 110 kilowatt substation costs 3 million. In any tender, let someone complain to you, the tender fails. Let's make a decision. Let's keep all 300 million until we have a plan. Let's go get a plan. I guarantee you, I guarantee you that the inflow of funds from depreciation will be more than possible to spend in that company called Elektroprenos. All in order, all in order for this company to develop further. So here's to 800 million in the next 10 years, 24 to it. I'm not going into that analysis because for the value of a company of 900 million it's a little hard to accept to be 800 million. Watch out, there's no replacement parts, there's reconstruction. Remote lines, here's that information, 400, 220 power lines in BiH are 20 per cent loaded. 110 kilowatt power lines along several narrow grails that we have are loaded with 20%. There is a need for reconstruction, there is a need to adapt, there is a need to build transformer cells, there is a need to build new power lines, which should go to new production facilities that we did not agree on. And it's hard to do. To what facilities? To the wind power plants in Herzegovina, which I'm not sure will be, to the hydropower plants, to the thermal power plants, so it's not such a simple thing, to make that plan. There are competent people out there who tried to do it. Normally, the problem has arisen politically. The problem has arisen politically that if it remains a political problem, it will not be resolved. If we try to find a compromise, it's possible to solve it. So, to conclude, I'm not sure that one serious administration, I'm not sure that one serious administration in the next 10 years of development investment of new ones, not maintaining existing, but developing investments of new ones, will base exclusively on depreciation and will not take credits that are favourable. What did we get? We have 300 million in banks that are armed with X% and the same 300 million, and these banks give to entities with X plus 2%. I mean, that's reality. We can say whatever we want, but that's what's going on with that money right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19081	The Republic has an MP, Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19082	Dear President, honourable MPs. I don't know if this is a replica, so you could say it's a replica. First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Kušljugić, who has in a very good way explained to us the state of Elektroprenos. This situation has already existed for 7-8-6 years. And that's a fact. However, the measure of our problem, in my opinion, is the request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the amendment law and amendments to the Law establishing the Electricity Transfer Company according to this and that member, by an urgent procedure. That's what we need to discuss. This law can be introduced into trinity, emergency, regular, speeded up as far as I know. And there is already the mood that people will vote, how the position – the opposition will vote, when it comes to this law. One truth has been discovered here today, and I thank Mr. Kušljugić, who Decidencely said that they needed that money to be directed into certain things. And I thank him because he said it in a decade. And good for him. This isn't any cynicism. He said it decadently, we have 300 million, I don't know how many, it takes to split 300 million to fill in the budget, 100-130, okay. Well, 130 million, I'm sorry, 130 million, to fill certain budget gaps. And it's perfectly normal and it's quite a pragmatic approach. It's better than nothing. I'm just worried, I'm not really sure if we adopt this one by emergency procedure, that some kind of 100 million that exists somewhere, which I think is imaginary, I know how they treat us in the world when it comes to grenades, that it will be realized if we adopt an emergency procedure. I'm inclined to adopt it if we're going to get 100 million, but I'm not sure we're going to get 100 million euros or KM. So this is what I'd say, some change of thesis, which I don't like. We vote here to pass this law quickly, slower or more regularly. And slowly shifts the ball to those people who think we should take that money, which nobody said it was against at all, but we said that we should study it a little bit, give time and in some month or a half, adopt this Law with all 25 of those things that all MPs kind of intrigue, as a potential problem. This is where an atmosphere is now created, that if those people who don't vote for this emergency procedure are defacto destroying the liquidity of the state. If this country with two of its entities can be destroyed with 130 million, I'm in deep trouble. I have a big mental problem. I'm sorry to say that. So I'm the first man who's willing to take that money so they don't stand there for nothing. But, guys,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19083	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19084	Here I am going to finish by respecting your Rules of Procedure. I ask you not to change the thesis here and not to use political purposes, to in some way declare some who are for progress and those who are for some regressive change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19085	The Republic has an MP, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19086	Dear colleague Kušljugić, so I listened very carefully, and after your discussion, I only need to say a few sentences. So it's true that Elektroprenos has been blocking for years. So there's no dilemma, because that's what it is. We can get into the reasons for that blockade now to analyze it, but it's blocked. And you said in your discussion that the aim of this Act is to help entity budgets and you said that among other things, the goal is to unblock the work of the institution, that is, this state-owned company. But I don't see from this law that the work of this company will be unblocked. And all the meaning and purpose of the objection which is highlighted in this Law, including from the European Commission, and the purpose of that plan that was made several months ago in Brussels, when it comes to this problem, is to actually unblock the company's work. The Law is passed which practically enables the division of money that cannot be shared for these purposes for which it is planned. That's what I warned you about. And as for the company's deblockation, we'll talk about it later. It's about the essence of this law, I see it that way. So it is very important that you keep in mind what comes from the European Commission, which comes from Brussels. Give management, give management, give a plan of investment, let's unblock the company, and then we'll see what we can do with the funds. So yet the meaning of this law is, his racio legion is exclusively in the division of these funds. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19087	The MP, Bosić, had two replicas, so he has no right to a third replica. Are there any more reported for discussion? A colleague, Bosić, is applying for a discussion. You have the right to discuss, please. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19088	Well, since I don't have a replica, let me take this step with what Mr. Kušljugić said, whose exit is very clear and unequivocally professional and I don't dispute him on that side. But Elektroprenos is a monopoliest, a state monopoliest. And now I'm asking the question, how come all this money, the extra money on the electrotransmitter's account? Who made it possible for a monopoliesman to have so much money, that no one spends and who lies on camera? What they're from, that money's from the citizens' accounts. And in this way, if you're sharing the money made by a monopoly, to whom you've set the price for what it will be and how much it will make, you're actually taking an extra tax from the citizens. It's a tax you can't see. How can Elektroprenos make a profit? He should work in the interests of citizens, and the state regulator, he must set a price that is realistic for the functioning of the elektroprenos and for covering additional costs. So this is about fundamental issues. And this, this discussion opens up a series of dilemmas that need to be resolved in this area. And that is why I believe that this should not go in this way and in this procedure, and that this should open up as a very important issue that needs to be thought deeply and that Parliament should take decisive views on this matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19089	Ambassador, Mirza Kušljugić has a word. The 59th PD session _____12:00:20_____
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19090	Replication to Mr. Bosić's discussion. No government determines the price of the margin taken by Elektroprenos. The price of the margin taken by Elektroprenos is determined by the State regulator that we consider independent. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The state regulator is an independent agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19092	Please don't leave the scene, let's hear from each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19093	State regulator, if you want to go by the names that sits in it in principle doesn't have much to do with, at least as far as the Federation is concerned, with the ruling structure, if you want to go by name. So suppose the Agency that endures here gets a positive..., independently, we finally gave it a positive report. I have debated and... questionable some of the things that have been, but this Parliament has voted in favour of them. Where'd you get the profits? Well, profit is because they didn't pass, profit is because someone said you had to pay back the loan and set the level of depreciation that the transfer didn't spend. Take the amount of credit and you'll see that there was exactly 20 million times 6 years is equal to 120 million. The surplus was created because the company did not spend 27 depreciation. That's the surplus, because if she'd spent depreciation this second part of the international community wanted to book for herself that even with spent depreciation there was extra money to come back... So there's no such thing as a vague situation (?) things why they're money. But the problem is that we're saying that the money's been there for four years, the problem is that that money was unarmed until two years ago. And it is not difficult to calculate that these are the money taken by the governments and municipalities in BiH from the banks in which the money is held. That's the problem, and that's the real stuff we should be discussing. I just want to say that I'm glad there's only an emergency procedure here, as far as I'm concerned, although I'm not sure that's what it is. Some have been questioned, as Mr. Kabil said it would be okay with it, but the procedure is such that they do not allow them to better look at and analyze this discussion. So in terms of metrics, I think I measure, I think we agree. And I contacted the federal prime minister and I asked him – Mr. Nikšić where you planned that money, whether they go to items to encourage development or go, as you call it, into consumption, because the Federal budget is quite a broad category, has social components. The answer was that most of these pairs were planned to develop small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19094	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19095	Planned, Mr. Belkić, planned.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19096	Please don't leave the scene. My friend Kušljugiću's time is up. The Republic still has Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19097	Well, that's right, although my colleague Kušljugić finally said that key line that made me answer. One who observes today's discussion would come to a realistic conclusion that it would be fair to adopt this proposal unanimously. That's the end of the debate. The last two opposition MPs, as the SBB also performs more oppositionly today, speak precisely in favour of it. The SDS has come to an end from the fierce defence of Elektroprenos to fierce criticism and logical questions as to how and why, suggesting that the deblockation should be removed. My colleague Kabil mentioned don't object to us, but it's a notoristic fact if this isn't blasphemous to support the blockade, because there's no third. There's no third, no matter, even if no one emphasizes it, it's mathematically so. If we don't vote today and there's no support for this law, no matter what form, there's a blockade. We unfortunately have been brought into this situation to choose between these two things. And I understood what was said to be just a disputed emergency procedure. And no one's saying, he didn't offer anything special to change in a regular way, no. And oppositionally, I can understand that, as it is, the government should have the instruments to dispose of the funds so it's the concern and the opposition that where it can close her space to get that money. Of course it doesn't agree with that, I can understand that, but it's the only intention and it's the only argument that has someone to justify the opposition in some way, here's a democratic way to prevent the authorities from reaching some sources of income. But no other argument stands. All of this is clear in the end that it deserves to unblock something that's hard to block, which leaves serious consequences. It has been spoken here and from a professional point of view and you will... from the field around BiH in many places where Elektroprenos should intervene – he cannot intervene. It's a complete block where people even have, not to say, domestic problems because 28 relationships with that company are what they are, where they can't solve what they have in direct relationships with them. So, with full respect that this may not be the most ideal thing of course, this is both difficult and professional matter, but at this point the only logical way out would be to unanimously support Parliament this law and, of course, the emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19098	Thank you. The word has an MP, Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19099	Thank you. I've decided to report to Mr. Belkić's replica. In fact, he comes forward, expresses, the first surprise, and then fear, is he concerned about how the funds are planned in the budget. So I would like to say that all governments in the world are planning dividends from public companies into the budget and ensuring the use of these funds, i.e. the contribution of these funds beyond what the country's fiscal capacity allows to act in the area of the budget. Why would it be a miracle that the entity government was federal or RS involved, planning to operate with these means? Why would it be something unusual, something that should cause a dismal one, first us here in Parliament and then the public? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] That is why we propose amendments to the law to make it possible. I will only tell you what is involved in the Federation of BiH's budget for development. 163 million is the total sum, 11.8% of the operational budget. Therefore, the establishment of a guarantee fund for incentives to export companies of 5 million, the establishment of a guarantee fund for domestic, for small businesses of 2 million, for a sub-boarded Unionbank loan for small and medium-sized enterprises 10 million, for financing active employment policies of 10 million, guarantees for the credit debt of Autoroad 6 million, subsidies for agriculture 58 million, subsidies for railways 22 million, etc. Isn't that developmental... and if we use the dividends from Elektrotrans for these purposes, we're doing something that's contrary to the public interest. Please don't fool yourself and send false messages to the public. In the end, what we're proposing as an amendment to the law, so that's good for all of us, that's public good. Therefore, Elektroprenos is not the firm of these political authorities that are today, are the ruling majority, so that is the public good of the citizens to whom parliaments intercede, intermediate governments and what there is to be doubt about in this context of all that is presented in terms of the possibility of developing, investing available money, etc. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19101	Thank you. The word has been made by Vice-President Milorad Živković. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19102	I thank the chairman. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members. Since we have conducted most of the discussions, I do not dispute that some colleagues have reported for the replica, but not only on the emergency procedure but also on the measure of this law, and given the view and discussion and everything that is happening, I would ask both the Secretary-General and the Council of Ministers to consider the possibility that this Law should be proposed in the ordinary procedure. Today we should vote in the first reading because as far as I can see, everyone is ready to accept the regular procedure and vote on the Law, and that, given that we need to discuss the budget in the next period, there is enough time left, even if it was a shortened amendment deadline, to act on this Law, in order to consider it in a second reading on Monday, so all those who have some grudges on this bill and who would think that the amendment could be fixed to do so. So, I don't propose that Parliament does, I suggest that the Council of Ministers consider it because I'm not sure we have any business capacity, and after that not enough time to do this... the way they suggested. So all these discussions would go into part of the debate on the measure of the Law, about its first reading, and I believe that then the colleagues, who think it can be amended, would support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19103	Thank you. Ambassador Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19104	Poslanik Domazet. So thank you for trying to... but obviously you didn't listen to me very carefully. It is absolutely known to me that governments finance their dividend activities, etc., it is known that practice here, is increasingly widespread, starts with the Central Bank, Regulatory Agency, etc. So it's not unknown to me if you followed what I was talking about. I was talking about the following – the order has changed, I was talking about how we don't know how much can be shared, at least I don't understand. Because it just wasn't that three-year investment plan, it wasn't these reports about the state of the... kilowatt network, etc. And I don't know when it all comes to dealing with each other whether that accumulated depreciation will cover those needs, because it's meant for that. So, for us, the law is unacceptable without it, that we understand each other, that there is no confusion. We've been... discussing procedures, but we've been pointing to these things. And a brief comment on the following. So the federal government included it in its budget, okay, and the government of the RS. So I wouldn't discuss the way they create the income side, reality, etc., so obviously they were quite certain that it would go through here. Why are we wasting our time? Go ahead, gentlemen, vote and bring it, of course, without us.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19105	Ambassador Mirsad Đugum has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19106	I thank the chairman. There is no question here whether or not we will vote for when it comes to, in a regular procedure, shortened or anything. But the principle that I'm saying for Mr. Kalabić, we're 30 not informed about this process, we were in progress, we got when the Council of Ministers proposed this, and on that Council of Ministers wasn't even our president. We were absolutely not familiar with these arrangements. One thing. The second thing, I ask the question – why then in the procedure, and the budget was... planned by both entities, did not at least try to put it in the process before, but to meet the part of the operational... and the financial report, the review of the reports and the investment plan, that we have preconditions for all those who require changes to the law. Absolutely the SBB doesn't want at any point to block either entity or any other process and that this part that needs to go is being transferred, but we need to regulate first of all what we should... that it's an operational control structure within the electrotransmitter. The worst if the money stands on the banks, the worst and cannot be used by either entity or the other, but let's at least, between the parties, try to respect the process which is agreed with the EU and try to respect each other and that we have all the information in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19107	The correction of the wrong allegations is by Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19108	Thank you, Chairman. Here, in this replica, I would like to emphasise, what is said, that we are not shared here for those who are for the progress and development of BiH and for those who are against the progress and development of BiH. We've heard here that up until two years ago these funds on the electrotransmitter's account were unarmed. Well, there are some people out there who could have put it down or not. We should, if we are already talking about someone and something, then we should talk about the names of those who are holding back the development of BiH and those who are in favour of progress. I'm not into emergency procedures, but I am for progress. The esteemed Dr. Domazet here spoke earlier about development programs within the Federation, so says a subsidy to the railroads of 22 million marks. It's every year, I follow the Federation's budget, it's every year. It's a waste of money, that 22 million it's a waste, it's not an investment in development. The fact that, so here, there are four years of 100 million marks being given to the Railways and those Railways, I think, one ton or two in these four years, have transported oil from Luke Ploca to, possibly throughout BiH. We have... not only the Federation's oil terminals where the Federation government paid for some of the profits paid for by the BiH citizens paid for someone's fuck-up 15 million marks.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19109	Please, Vocabulary, let's adjust to Parliament's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19110	Excuse me, please. Okay, all right, vocabulary, these citizens understand, do they. So, you need citizens in your pocket and down, so some who are, and today no one about it... means just that, but we also have the latest variant where also another company broke the contract and the leadership of those Terminals says -- they're interested in that million and 800 thousand euros, right, let's do it, we'll treat them. Well, what a development program. 31 So here we are for progress but for progress, and for investment, means in small, medium and any entrepreneurship. But here's the word just to bring it today or it's to bring it in within a month. Here, I'm on that side to bring it in within a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19111	Dear Ambassador Niko Lozančić has applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19112	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. We have a very simple question here, so we're discussing the procedure, whether we're going to discuss the solutions that are offered, which are ahead of us, whether we accept them or we're going to discuss them in a regular procedure, or someone else. This is the best example of the Law, a decision that can be discussed by haste, there is no better. So these are exactly the questions that, secondly, is the question of our commitment, we here talk long and wide. Let me not be minded by my colleagues and colleagues for what I will single out, in my opinion, the debate that my esteemed colleague Mirza Kušljugić had, and those who, here, would try not to know what it was about, answered all the questions. And we can only take this or leave it, reject it, there's no other solution. What do you mean by regular procedure? What are you going to do about the amendment? This is about the proposing's intention to remove the legal blocking of the funds in the elektroprenos's account. We can be there for it to stay blocked and we can be against it. So there's no third solution, no modified solution. So either we leave the blockade that exists in the law, so we won't accept this solution, or we'll accept the proposed solution and remove the blockade. So, that, there's no, uh, those who are trying through something like a regular procedure that's going to come up with some extra... no. If we think it's okay, I suggest we try some more in some areas to block some funds, let them stand, this one. And my colleague Kušljugić said too rarely and too openly – okay, let the banks make money on us, there is no problem... but we have to admit it. And whose bank account they're making... I mean, since we're talking about protecting the interests of citizens... of the same citizens.../very hard to understand/... again, by who knows which way and who knows how. So we don't have much space. It is said in particular – instead of the blockade so far, blockages are removed and the Assembly decides instead of the current Supervisory Board, when the blockades are removed. The Assembly must be a senior body than the Supervisory Board, since the Assembly is appointed by the Supervisory Board. And I don't know what, I don't know who's going there from the Assembly to..., so here's what I don't know, but I don't know what we have in advance in all the organs we have appointed in accordance with the law of our people in our country. So we suspect the Derk, we suspect the Supervisory Board, we suspect the Assembly, I doubt it, I don't know where they're from, no matter where the political parties come from. And yet, for who knows which time, I will mention Mr. Kušljugić, this is not an expert question, so this is not a professional one, it is not at the expert level of blockades in the functioning of Elektropres, a purely political blockade. And if this is the first step to remove that blockage and that electrotransmitter is working and it's working on those jobs for... I mean this one, are we in for a blockade or are we in for the removal of the blockade. I'm for removing the blockade, so no one at all, and I'm against any and any roadblocks. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't, so the question is whether or not we will. So I absolutely think this is a matter of haste, because here's all I've been saying is 32 about it and I support it to be an emergency procedure, and everyone who wants one or another solution has the opportunity to plead yes or no, and then we'll have a settled question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19113	Thank you. The correction of the false allegations that could be the cause of the misunderstanding has Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. More specifically, maybe a little clarification and a little more undermining the position of the SBB in this matter. In fact, we're talking about blocks that have been going on for six years, and now we need to get them through an emergency procedure. Moreover, there are reportedly so many problems in BiH that the Parliamentary Assembly will be again found guilty of all the problems that occur in the country. Who led to these blockades? Those who did not make the governing body fully operational, those who did not report financially, who passed the audit, made available those who, most importantly, did not make a reliable investment plan and adopted it, and took those steps that Mr Belkić tried on two occasions very clearly, very precise and accurate. So neither one of us should take responsibility for this, nor any of us should amnesty for those who missed these steps. Mr. Lozančić says - why we doubt in advance. And why does someone think in advance that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as unfortunately has done on several occasions lately, will again violate the laws, and its decisions, and procedures, and everything it should insist on. This is a legislative body that adopts laws, which adopts procedures, which we also conclude, so we show by example that this should be done in exactly the way that it is done in BiH for 6 years and not fulfilled. And he asks a gentleman, a dear colleague of Lozančić, what does he change to? Amendments to the possibility of not breaking over the knee what someone needs to make the bills for. The amendments to not allowing processes in the country to be blocked in this way for two years, three, six, one mandate, two mandates, and that is why someone who is indeed trying to pragmaticly, constructively and in accordance with BiH legislation should be responsible for the processes that should lead to the improvement of the situation in BiH. So, we want everything discussed in a way that we are all absolutely, regardless of which political option we belong, position or opposition, concerned about the well-being of BiH and the citizens of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19115	Thank you. The Republic has an MP, Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19116	Replication response. Look, I was just saying that it is the right of every MP to define himself for the solutions offered or against the solutions offered. I don't mean to convince anyone at all to opt for these solutions or against these solutions. These are... decisions individually. 33 But I also found that this is the best example of a proposal that can and should be debated by haste. So, since we're talking about procedure, we're still talking about procedure, I don't mean to convince anyone to support or support these solutions. So, then you got me wrong. And if you think you're going to have some knowledge of more, better, so you can't decide... that's your problem, I mean I have to say, uh, because this is a clear question, so the question is too clear. The other thing is whether we make the decisions or not. No Niko bothered us during this term of office or in the past to resolve the issue of elektroprenos. So, there's no here, I mean, I have to say too often, too often to mention Mr. Kušljugić's discussion because she was the most correct one. So, no innocents, no innocents. But we've got 300 million in a blockade, we've got 300 million in a blockade, we've got a public company in a blockade, so we're not gonna try to solve it now. Okay, there's no problem. I will commit myself in accordance with my conscience, believing, whatever decision I make, that I will make a decision for the well-being of both these companies and all BiH citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19117	Ambassador Boško Tomić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19118	Mr. Chairman, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I personally think that today we should discuss an emergency procedure and therefore I advocate that this law be passed by emergency procedure precisely by referring to what Mr. Lozančić is talking about – I am not sure that we will change anything if we go into regular procedure, since there is only one thing here and it is a deblocking of funds. And I can't possibly for those who are struggling not to unblock the funds, to stay there, to understand the opposition, it's so logical that the opposition is always fighting that as little power as possible so that it is in some way in the interest of those who chose it but to protect their interest, and on the other hand in entities where development and social policies are located to bring them into a position that they could not solve the problems that are ahead of them. I understand that, too. And I understand the people in the position that say it's good that we block 300 million dollars of money without interest, without any interest, and even some of you pay for keeping your account, and on the other hand we take loans that are five, six, or I don't know how much interest they take. The dividend funds are the right of the citizens of BiH, i.e. both the citizens of the Federation and the citizens of the RS. And in that sense, those funds should be recovered. Budget funds are allocated to development programmes through funding and economy, business projects, through agriculture, through incentives. Here, we shared 19 million incentives in RS yesterday for those export-oriented enterprises. Therefore, the funds derived from this programme will certainly not end just as it will be invested and be processed and returned to RS budgets, i.e. BiH. For these reasons, I do not see any need for this law to go to regular procedure. It's just that I don't understand what kind of mind and mind to bring the funds to block for 10 years, so something that cost ten thousand marks ten thousand today is 15 thousand marks. Only inflation ate those funds. Completely nakaradic things set up, we haven't achieved any effects. And don't go any further, let's not crash, let's not make a problem, I suggest that this be handled by an emergency procedure, in such a way as to remove the blockade and manage the funds. The funds will always be managed by one who has the majority and will be managed by governments. And they should not be so afraid that there will be irrational and unreasonable spending of funds. Thank you. 34 _______2:29:33_________:29:33
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19119	Ambassador Borislav Bojić has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19120	I won't speak, this is a replica of a colleague, Tomić, who advertises the support of the government's economy. I had to react for a simple reason, it seems to me that the economy is on its knees. The state of trade capital is catastrophic. That's what,...the economic operators. That, if you think that this subsidy will bring about the growth of the RS economy, we will have the opportunity to take that kind of government support more seriously. You will see that it is not, nor is it close, so what is expected of the economy and take only burdens when it comes to the expenditure that the economy has in terms of the obligations it has to the state, take the untaxable part of which has been spoken about, when it comes to the RS. What we had earlier, what we have today, the withdrawal of moves in which this untaxed part, so it almost shuts down, and then something comes back, doesn't even come to the level that it used to be. So Boško, however, I would disagree with the assessment that this type of subsidy can in any way help economic operators, which, when it comes to the state of trade capital and their position as they chase down large powerful foreign companies here, seems to me that our economy is unable to meet these challenges. Whoever comes into the real sector and looks at what the situation was a few years ago and what it is today, the rapid state is harder and it's getting harder and harder every day in the real sector. And look at the analysis of budget spending and what BiH is about, when it comes to spending these funds on administration, in proportion to what we have in the real sector, I don't think it's well-set Boško, realistically speaking. Next thing you know, when you're talking about these electro-prived assets, you see this problem didn't become yesterday, what your colleague said for six years is this problem is present. And like now, if we don't solve it today, we're going to do a lot of damage, and for six years this problem stands, five, three years just to stand. Well, I guess it's our turn to consult those who are well-versed in this matter, so that we, Kušljugić, have a certain kind of attitudes about it, so that we can see how these funds will be distributed. Is it all the way it was presented, when it comes to making entity budgets. And finally, whether it will be enough for, above all, the amortised resources in Elektroprenos, whether it will be able to perform its basic function, to ultimately consult those who know the very good situation in this area, to see if there are enough resources left for those needs that are necessary for the elektroprenos itself. I'm sure no one wants to block when it comes to development. So it's not a sort of thing. But that suddenly today, this topic that is one of, I would say, very, very much so, because I feel free to say that it is most important but it is a very important topic, in this way it comes to Parliament and says now if we don't bring it we will fail.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19121	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19122	Today if we don't bring it in. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19123	Ambassador Boško Tomić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19124	Thank you for the replica you've given me, Mr. Bojić, and I always like this way. I want to communicate with the arguments, and I respect and respect it. Perhaps it is a suggestion and some other MPs who are trying in a different way to resolve it. And I'd very much like to do it this way with you. You see, he says it's nothing 19 million. Ask these small businessmen, or ask those who deal with textiles, skin, etc., what that incentive means to them. They're firms that work at the border of rentability. Every incentive to them leaves them alive. It does not necessarily mean that new employment will occur, but it will save the dismissal of already existing workers. For that reason, I find it justified, by investing, I think it's good things. Without that, I'm sure the number of unemployed would grow. For these reasons, it is a good thing to support and any new means that can be directed in that direction will be very good. Here you see now the untaxable part is being introduced into the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the truth is he used to be bigger, now he's somewhere on 200.00 seems to me to mark. But here we are not to discuss here the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly, to discuss here in Parliament. What do we stand for in an emergency procedure? So nothing's going to change in the next five, not seven, not ten days, it's just about the law that's going to unblock the funds. And I don't think there's any need for us to postpone, but we need to get through this as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19125	Ambassador Borislav Bojić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19126	Given the intonation of the way you said it, exactly, at least you admitted that the non-taxable part was bigger. It was a significant support for the economy. As significant support was the economy when it comes to quotas and what the shoe industry and the textile industry got about that law that you made the whole drama about, therefore unargumented. So, the fact is, look how they reacted exactly to these areas that you were talking about, when it comes first to those legal solutions that allowed our businesses to, among other things, be able to, when it comes to special shoe finishing, because you know the problem, to create conditions for them to work better. When it comes to this part of the funds, so please, the budgets are already practically planned. Whether they're well-planned or not, it's worth estimating. It can't be in one day. Well, you don't think with all this trouble, we as MPs who pass this law, we're going to get to know each other in detail. How many people in this room know this issue, respecting a couple of colleagues who are quite directed because they are connected to all these sectors? Is there a need for me, first of all as an uninformed man in this problem, to consult with someone who knows this issue very well? And make sure that this consultant, first of all in the SDS, there are commissions dealing with this issue, that's the first address I would address that I would ask among other things for more people, and more people know I don't say a single saying that you know, so 36 would be good to consult you. They would certainly be of significant benefit to put things first in a way that would benefit economic operators. And finally, Mr. Tomić, when it comes to business and business entities and burdens on businesses and see only profit tax, let's say the situation in the Federation of Business Entities and the situation in the RS. I am not going to open this discussion here in this House right now, and you know very well that this situation is completely unfavourable from the aspect of RS economic operators. Just look at the tax and obligations and see what happens to the business entities in the RS and answer me why they transfer their seats to the Federation? Why? Is it because they have a favourable business environment there? And why is it that huge cash, which passes through rye malls that are in the RS and are based in the Federation, goes to the Federation? I don't mind that, but I'm wrong about why business entities, or business entities from the RS, don't have better operating conditions, and we're talking about being a better part of BiH. Well, don't at least lie to us, we can end up not talking in front of these people, we all know how things are when it comes to business entities in the RS and in the Federation. Far more difficult are the circumstances of the functioning of business entities in the RS, primarily thanks to poor legislation and the position in which RS legislation brings economic operators to RS. Listen at the end of the first man of the RS Chamber of Commerce who will very carefully explain the state of business in the RS and just make a comparative analysis with the state of the economy, for example in the Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19127	Ambassador Slavko Jovičić has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I've done it a few times, but it looks like without success, I've warned my colleagues from the SDS, so don't transfer the atmosphere from the National Assembly of the RS here. Let's postpone this by a year, not 127. What's going to change, and who's going to make any amendments that are going to be accepted here? And you're talking today about the economic situation of the RS, so these funds won't be invested in the return of the microphones you've ripped up in the National Assembly, so you can't even talk. You shouldn't have pulled it out, and you should have said it all there, not here. We're talking 127 here about an emergency procedure. If we don't adopt it today, and I hope we adopt it, what happens if we adopt this in February, March, I don't know when? Will any amendment, which would be best, be accepted by the opposition? Here's what I'm gonna say in advance. Because you don't invest here, and you don't ask for this to be delayed, and it goes into a regular procedure to make a constructive investment. You want to continue the blockade and get those who could still be saved to fail before you think you'll come to power. Neither will they fail, nor will you come by the emergency procedure as you think it will be a regular procedure, there will be 127. And that's why you're fighting and don't transfer the atmosphere anymore from the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia here, my head hurts when I hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19129	Ambassador Boško Tomić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19130	Here, I didn't think Mr. Bojić was going to challenge the replica again, but here's the answer, so just to say it's not good to talk about moving the company from the RS to the Federation, that's what you should have data and say how much it is. It's just so casually easy to say. I remember in one, ten days ago it was published, I don't know the Russian company is moving its 37 capacities from Banja Luka to the Federation, so that after the president of the company or I don't know someone from the management said, it's not just a registration of the company and the Federation without anything moving from the RS. Therefore, here in the RS if a more favourable environment is created then it is the adoption of a new law where in three days you can register a company. And these are some benefits and so on. This reduction, reduction and tax and contribution should be pursued, as far as possible. But it's not good that we're here on a flat-rate basis, that's not exactly the exact data, and you need to have the right data and see that it's a completely insignificant and irrelevant number. And as for distribution centres, so distribution centres are a much more complex problem and we really need to sit down and talk about them, because we and what little we create at BiH level, distribution centres have dragged it away and taken it from our citizens under their brand, pay for 90 days, pay for some special conditions, pay for the space they are in, and these funds will end up outside BiH territory, but this is not the time for this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19131	Ambassador Borislav Bojić has a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19132	Yeah, since I don't have a replica just for a little while to comment. _________(?) [[Mircophone is not enabled]] No, I won't, so I won't cause a replica, but I have a few things to say when it comes to the profit tax that you've avoided saying. Look at that condition, so it's not a flat-rate. And you can't qualify for a flat rate and say a company can register in three days. And you tell me how many companies close for a day in RS? Is that also a flat-rate? How much does it close? If you want that information, I'll get it for you? Next, Mr. Jovičić, when you say that these questions should be discussed in the National Assembly, you mention the microfon and so on. Wherever I am, wherever I am, I will always say things the way they are, no matter who listens to them or where they are. If it's a good condition I'm going to commend him, and you know it very well that I'm ready to say certain things, this is okay, but what's wrong is wrong, wherever it is found. After all, what companies are these? Well, Mr. Tomić, it's not the same to have a seat, you know, in the RS and the Federation. Ask for registrations in the seat __________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19134	Don't be a coworker.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19135	The issue of registration in the seat is a matter of obligation where this formed firm fulfils its obligations, where pay and ultimately, much better benifites are when you have a seat, after all your boss was long ago this time many companies were registered in the Laktashi and 38 Laktashi had a benifite and lived out of it. So look what it means to have a registered firm in one of those places. After all, I want to tell you that I've talked to more businessmen on this subject and I have to tell you that there are more pressing conditions for business. It's more unfavourable business conditions if you want to see things realistically, I'm sorry about that. I want us to level the business conditions and ultimately work to be equal opportunities and equal chances for everyone, so we would practically have an opportunity for our economic operators to realize what they want to accomplish, i.e.. to do good business in the RS. The issue of subsidies to domestic businesses, please see how much is given for new employment in some cantons, and how much is given in RS. I will provide you with detailed information for the next time, given that I have no room and the possibility to open this question. And I agree with you that this is not a place nor a time nor a moment to open this issue. But I don't agree that these big decisions go according to emergency procedures without being able to inform ourselves better about everything you're preparing for us. After all, let me tell you why so much mistrust? So who's gonna believe the people who made this concept? In what way do we believe, for what reason? How do you think we believe those who made this concept about making one like this, who says that in this bush there is no rabbit that we can't spot right now, while you're so quick to pass this regulation. I doubt there's anything behind this right now. What? I've got to get going so I can say something too much, not say something wrong, and somebody's laughing at me. I want to get to know a good problem so I can talk about it, and so I think that this kind of procedure, when it comes to this regulation itself, is not something that is acceptable to any Parliamentarian, or one who is sufficiently informed about the problem itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19136	I'm closing the debate on the first item of the agenda. Moving to the second point of the Ad2. Proposal for a Bill on Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions and International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014, Proposer: BiH Presidency The draft law in the procedure was delivered on 09.12.2013. On the same day, therefore, on 09.12, it was delivered and sent to all MPs as well as to the Constitutional Legal Commission and to the Commission responsible for finance and budget. The Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis, with me writing on 04.12.2013, a (?) It's a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19139	The president of the board, so I'm giving him a head start, okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19140	I thank Mr. Lijanović, he was a little faster than I was. In any case, Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to say briefly what the impressions are after and yesterday's session of the Finance and Budget Commission. And to put it this way, let me say, and my regret and dissatisfaction with ineffectiveness, I would say, the findings that this Budget, or the draft of this budget, and Budget, have been referred to by the Finance and Budget Committee. We were mostly discussing principles yesterday.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19141	kolega Kabil for just a second, I will ask all MPs and everyone in the hall to take their seats so that the honourable chairman of the Commission and the MP can speak his views in peace. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19142	We were discussing yesterday the principles of this new Budget Act for 2014 and, of course, when you get late all the documents you are unable to read them and simply competently discuss all these principles. But since some basic framework things have been respected, which is that the fiscal framework is satisfied, that I would say, our commitments to credit obligations have been respected in the framework that has already been given, that the appropriations granted to BiH institutions are as they are, I insisted that as President of the Commission we speed up this process in the light of our commitments to the IMF and that through the amendment form that will follow, all irregularities that have occurred in this budget, we fix. What surprised me most was the fact that the proponent in this case, the finance ministry, i.e. the finance ministry representative, has made it clear that after redistribution of funds and changes in the redistribution of funds in the financial framework that have emerged, it could jeopardise the business of certain BiH institutions. And I must admit that I was surprised that the daily work of these institutions could even be compromised. Of course, after that, the finance ministry's representative said that through a quality amendment form it can be regulated. Here, after a vote which was the way it was, which is that 6 members of the Commission voted for the principles of this Budget, 2 were against and 1 abstention, I must express my dissatisfaction with the proposings, in this case the Presidency and the Council of Ministers according to the Commission itself, or to the MPs. Unfortunately, an atmosphere is being created that due to the delay, I would say, in a hologram that appeared when it comes to the Budget 40.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19143	I will ask all MPs to try, here again, to listen to the honourable Member of the Kabil.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19144	that all responsibility for the non-response of the Budget and the possible consensus, if not passed, shall be transferred to the Members, or specifically to the Commission. I don't think that's true, and I was particularly pleased that yesterday the president of the House, this House of Representatives, was participating and pointing to all this hodogram that was done and all the shortcomings and failures in the draft system and in the presentation, both towards the Commission and Parliament. So, through one conclusion, we have formulated our dissatisfaction, all the members of the Finance and Budget Commission, and we have indicated that these things should not happen in the future. There will probably be some new people in the commissions, new people in these benches in the next term, but in any case, we need to make this relationship serious between the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and the finally Parliament that brings those acts. I must also show my regret and grief when I compare our Parliament with the parliaments of neighbouring countries when it is brought so capital, I would say capital law, budget for 2014. I am following the case on cable TV and I am increasingly interested in the activities of the Serbian Parliament when it comes to the budget. In this srbijanski parlament, I saw a minister who is in an extremely difficult position and all MPs who are so detailed and qualitatively asking questions in every item of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, so I simply became a little bit and envious, as people analyze all items of budgetary users. I asked whether such an interactive communication between the executive authority and the legislative authority could ever exist in BiH and whether we will always be brought before the final act. When I say the final act, because we are limited by international institutions, limited by our inactivitys, and worst of all, the transfer of all responsibilities to one group of people, and these are parliamentarians. I can't accept that responsibility where one spin is created that those who have the highest wages, and these are parliamentarians sitting here, doing nothing, and I'm aware that we don't have the highest wages and that our job, I'd say, and we're doing too civilizedly. Looking at the Croatian Parliament, looking at crnogorski's Skuština, looking at the Assembly in Serbia, I think MPs who are located, including members from various committees, must have a much more proactive function and must, I would say, in the best possible way influence that certain processes, and in this case the Law, are at least at the right time. That would be me, I'd say, one brief introduction, surely there will be a lot of discussion, there will be a lot of discussion about the items that have been cut off, someone has been returned, and I hope that in this whole interactive process we will get the most qualitative answers from the finance minister and the relevant people of the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19145	Before I give anyone my word in accordance with Article 67(3), I'm forced to give a break because we don't have a quorum to work, so if we're already giving a break, maybe you can use it for lunch, 45.00 minutes break, and the rest at 13.45. 41 14:11:35------------ [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, professional services and others present, please take your seats, continue our work. MP Beriz Belkić applied for the discussion, please welcome counterpart Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19147	I thank the chairman. I don't know in such a relaxed atmosphere whether it makes sense to talk about these serious things, but here's what you're saying. So, as far as Members of the SBiH are concerned, we will not support the principles of this Law for the following reasons, above all, it is nothing new, standard practice, I do not see any promoters, although it is very difficult to determine who is behind this solution that we have received. Of course, it is known that the promoters, that the proposing BiH Presidency, but it is unknown which parliamentary majority, i.e. who gives support to this Budget, so it is very difficult to get answers, does not know who to ask for clarifications and so on. But here's to me going back to what we're discussing today, so principles. The first principle that should be respected is the principle of mildness, it is not respected, we do not need to talk about it. Here we have also received information from the Council of Ministers that explains that the matter has been under way, but the BiH Constitution clearly prescribes two deadlines on 15 November, 15 October and 15 November respectively, none of them are respected. The second principle should be that Budget provides for the smooth functioning of institutions financed from it, it is unknown whether this principle is fulfilled for the simple reason why comparison of programming objectives, i.e. the strategic objectives of Budget users and the amount of figures, is not seen. Although as a newspaper this time I also welcome it, we have received what is said professionally, i.e. the right thing to say, the demands of budget users in the programming format. So that's the thing that's good and I respect it, but it would be good if Budget had been conceived in this way, that is, that we can see how much it's going in the direction of valorised programming tasks. Of course, this is a new practice, so you should not be surprised when you see that the strategic objectives of this Parliament are to improve the standard of living of the peoples and citizens of BiH, which is a very good thing, but I am afraid that this Parliament has no mechanisms, no means for any activity that would improve the standard of citizens, except by passing laws and so forth. which can help, of course, people but not directly. Furthermore, transparency is absolutely questionable and it is directly related to this well-being that people were not absolutely in a position to see things. The question is, what exactly are the targets of the budget? A simple survival as far as I could understand and in some ways comes the question and reality of planning, because if we start from the fact that several people in this country are the bearer of the functions of the entity minister and so on. set out the Global Framework for the fiscal balance and policies for the medium term and precisely that limit established, this Parliament has little to say about. But in that entire situation, the entity's budgets are growing, and the budget of the state is somewhat lower and smaller than I could have concluded in comparison to the previous one. 42 And finally, the impression is that this year some philosophy or principles or concept of how to adopt budgets, budgets in BiH, and including this could be characterized in the following way, that he, that the budgets of this country were created in teat, so to speak in teat, and in debt, so to speak, the addictions and attempts to meet the demands of those who give us these things, and that the philosophy of opening the second, third January after the welcome of the new year when all is spent then he resorts to opening and children's casinos, which confirms this little bit of what we talked about, so this accumulated amortisation. Here, uh, that's why we won't support this budget's principles. Thank you very much. And I suggest practically, since it has been announced that it will be from one political party of ninety, one hundred amendments, and others are not behind that figure I suggest that, but we don't know who can, we don't have a proponent to back this up, and that, better with the help of the Council of Ministers, everything you announce corrects and that in three days we get what you will raise your hand for as parliamentary majority. It's gonna be hard for you to fix it with amendments, and I doubt the state could get a budget this year, but here we have temporary funding by the end of March so it can slow down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19148	The word has an MP Amir Fazlić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19149	I thank the chairman. Here I will begin my discussion with one question as well, and it stems from the discussion of people outside the Ministry of Finance who have explained to us the members of the Finance and Budget Committee the proposed Budget, although the formal proposer is the Presidency, and we know the role of the Council of Ministers in proposing and we know the role of the Presidency in proposing the budget. Then there was one finding from colleagues I don't see here today, that one question was this, one doubt, that the estimated 950 million will not be enough to finance all that the BiH state needs, means the institutions and all those competencies that the BiH state has. So I am currently expressing my concern and one suspicion that unless certain corrections occur in this second phase, the SDA Club will support this Budget, given that the Global Fiscal Framework has frozen the growth of the state budget to this, to this sum of 950 million plus external debt. And by law, we know that the fiscal framework has to be revised every year and we've received information that it's been audited, but we haven't received confirmation that in this revision, the revision of the fiscal framework that the state budget has increased anything, and we know that the entity's budgets have grown. The Federation's budget grew by a certain percentage, but also by the budget of the RS. What makes me so, which I must admit as an MP and a member of the Finance and Budget Committee, is, this is the timing we have and this is what I have suggested to the Finance and Budget Commission to get one chronology of the event, the travels of this act. So, when the Ministry of Finance, when the Fiscal Council sat down, when the Ministry of Finance sent it to the Council of Ministers, when the Council of Ministers returned to Parliament. One image is already being created that Parliament and MPs are very responsible for disrespecting this deadline, which the IMF has drawn and has talked about quite a lot these days, and this is December 09th, although I have not seen this act, because under our law it is until December 31st. So, from this chronology we see, and knowing and... that defines the Budgets Act, we see that from the beginning, there has been a deviation of these terms, and normally it's bound to both the Presidency and everything else, so if we were to determine the chain, this chain of responsibility is all a little bit responsible. But we from the opposition could say the parliamentary majority could have done this a little better, could have asked for 43 responsibilities from their first people, from entity prime ministers, from the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, and eventually the Bureau got it within the specified time limit if it had exceeded its deadline would have succumbed here to criticism as well as those called here by me. What I must also admit and ask, yesterday is on the Finance Commission we had an observation from a member of the Commission, who is very active, on the letter-size text, on the format as this was done, really a colleague brought the bat and showed us symbolically how he was trying to get some data, here's a colleague here. Well, believe me, I couldn't even get into this budget's analysis with a shovel, and we didn't have time. And be careful, this convulsion is here (?) No microphone turned on Look, I don't know if he's with age, but I know he's an active colleague, and he's having good discussions, no matter what he's with a party that we're very often with, we're plowing. This one, but really, really, here's the fourth time we get the budget, and we can't as MPs get involved in that degree where our President of the Commission, Cable, compares Serbia's Parliament and how other parliaments do it there, that we can't as MPs respond to our mission and really approach the analysis of this document that is most important to BiH. I therefore believe that, despite the amendments that the SDA will adopt, and given the timetable and number of deadlines that the parliamentary majority has, we will not be able to do anything in particular to improve the budget, but I am very interested in whether these remarks by the Presidency are embedded in this text of the budget that we have received. So, I'd like to know if they are, if the finance minister comes out and tells us exactly by the remarks, as they're listed, so that we can find it in the making of the amendment, make sure and react in time. I think, since it is most likely that there will be an election, because in opposition we are in favour of the elections, it is unfortunate that we will not have the opportunity to, this convocation, perhaps someone will have the opportunity to analyse this Budget, but we feel that this is very irresponsible, that the minority in 48 hours requires the consent of this Parliament, the consent of these MPs who tomorrow have to answer to the citizens why they raised their hand for some items, and we are not able to analyse them and even notice them, compare them, we see in execution with last year. I would also like to know what the consequences are, as they say on the Finance Commission, we were told that as soon as we get the budget, these IMF funds will be unblocked. What does that mean as soon as possible? I'd like an answer from the finance minister. And if we're already late and if we are, if the answer is that we're too late, then it's also a liability. Citizens of this country must know who is responsible for the delay in budgeting. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19151	Thank you. Discuss esteemed colleague Mladen Lijanović Ivanković, please. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19152	Thank you, Mr. President. The colleagues and fellow representatives, ladies and gentlemen of the BiH Budget of the BiH institutions, we have also received a document here that says that the Law on the financing of BiH institutions is not respected and that it is too late with the delivery of everything, so that we are now brought to the final act, but I think that we here in Parliament should bring strategy and global, global policy and, and, and these petty distributions we should trust the people who did this and there is a revision that will show it to us. So, the procedure is delayed, and the principles are to calculate this 950-million-dollar fiscal framework is respected, why I voted for the Fiscal Framework and that public spending at the state level remains the same and I am satisfied with that. However, what it is, I am not satisfied with the state of BiH, the work of the institution and the company, businesses are being viewed eventually in the results, if there is no result everything is in vain. Unfortunately, BiH and its citizens have no results when it comes to growth, development and progress, BiH, when it comes to the outside world, therefore does not meet the conditions of the undertaken and undertaken commitments in the European way, the NATO Alliance, when it comes to the internal, internal economy of the BiH state, i.e. all institutions at the level of BiH's main economic policies, economists know very well, the fiscal, monetary, foreign and commercial, income and contribution policies are three in the hands of the BiH state institutions, or the Council of Ministers. Of the fiscal policies I'm only for... for the third year one fiscal policy was the excise on beer, as I recall. Monetary is what it is, foreign trade has been trying to protect domestic production, but obviously nothing has been done. So, the institutions of the BiH state did not give answers, which is the most responsible one that I think is the Council of Ministers and the parliamentary majority that supports it, because the tool is in the hands of the Council of Ministers, we should do so as the parliamentary majority that supports it, and we as Parliament and we cannot and I am not for us to lead economic policies. Therefore, especially when it comes to one segment, I have pointed out here several times, agriculture and rural development due to the lack of a paying agency at the level of the BiH State or a country-wide payment system from which we can draw EU funds for agriculture and rural development in 2014 BiH lost 25 to 30m euros of funds that it cannot apply to, and we were right, all because of irresponsible behaviour primarily of the Council of Ministers, and therefore also a policy at the level of the state of five, six, and then we lost 45 million funds from the European Fund. And that is why I propose in the Budget for the guilt of BiH institutions, so gross wages and fees at 161100 – 529.000.694, I am in favour of completely reducing it by 10%, this segment will not compromise the work of BiH institutions only to point out those who have worked and received salaries for what they should have done that they did not well determine their job. And these funds should be transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations table to encourage agriculture and rural development to implement this through the entity ministries of agriculture, which is some 52 million circus. So, what we took away practically from agriculture and rural development, which is why in Parliament, the Council of Ministers and in some ways the institutions stayed at the state level, we took it away from people. And in that direction, I'm going to try to submit the amendment in the next phase, and I'm going to conclude that the 950 million-dollar framework is okay, with this part of the funds being allocated in a different way. I would just like to say that because of this responsibility BiH has long, especially in the last three years registered unemployment of the BiH Statistics Agency 2011. — 529.994, 2012. — 545.508, 2013. - 554,000, so our unemployment is growing, real sector employment is even dropping, and in these institutions it remains. And that's why I'm also proposing this part, so that we have to give up, equalize everyone's responsibility, and above all we at the state level are responsible for most of this part because we don't use the tools and policies that we have in our hands on the welfare of all citizens. 45 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19153	Thank you. Discussion, next came the honourable MP Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the opportunity to discuss something more in detail on the Commission yesterday when it came to the principles where we from the SNSD supported these principles by calculating that through the amendments, we will have an impact on certain adjustments in order to get to the best possible budget. First of all, I have to say that we are satisfied that we have maintained ourselves within a framework of which 950 million previously envisaged, satisfied to see that it has not gone well despite the pressures of individuals who have been trying to increase it in some way, it has not happened, it has been kept on this framework. In the internal redistribution, we are certainly not satisfied about this, and we are going to make certain amendments. Let's say that external debt is our 846 million, of which the Federation wastes 555, to RS 285 which is only 4% increase for RS, while for the Federation 9, and for BiH the total increase is 7%, I say this for some other reasons to keep saying that this is a drastically increasing debt at the level, especially at RS level, so the total budget is increased by some 3% anyway. It is good that thanks to the audit reports and here our conclusions of Parliament that the Council of Ministers and the Bureau proposed that certain costs be reduced, so I am primarily thinking of costs and telephone and postal services, where compared to last year 88%, travel costs are 91%, then fuel and oil costs 92, rental costs 88. This is what I'm saying is there's still a reserve here, and this hasn't been enough, it's been going down as objectively as it could, because there are reserves here, especially when it comes to renting space that's moving close to 30 million. And that's especially when you're watching the Department of Defense this year predict an increase in the lease of space by 181%, and I don't see why it seems to me that if anyone then has extra space through the barracks and through other facilities and I don't think everyone should be in the city centers, that they can perform, that they can perform their functions in other smaller places. Thus, such things are unacceptable. We think that, for us, it's unacceptable to increase the Constitutional Court by 14%, the D.A.'s office by 25%, this about the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, I'd like it to be clear to me, up to 184%, which is why it's probably because of some grenades, so I guess that's one of the reasons. Or the Corruption Agency increases by 20%, I have to say that through the report of these institutions that I've listed, I didn't notice that they had had any increased activity, that they were carrying out their tasks with some special efforts, so they needed additional funding. What we in SNSD disagree on is an increase in the number of employees, here from 30.06. at the level of BiH institutions 22.011 persons are employed, while it is foreseen for, with 31.12. - 22,543 people or 532 more people than it is this year. We keep talking about some kind of savings, some kind of reduction in these costs, and on the other hand we see this employment. The truth is, when you look at each other in 70 institutions somewhere, there are 1, 2, 3, 5 and so on. And in the end, we got together that it was 532 people, and we had a heated debate about it yesterday when it came to whether this Budget is a developmental or consumer. I still stand on the fact that this budget is a consumer to a good extent and that it needs to be fucked and that the development budgets are located at the level of entities and on and on, and the development and social ones are at the level of entities. The reserves exist, especially in the Ministry of Defence, although the budget is less than 2%, I think it can still be reduced, and 10 thousand soldiers we think in the SNSD it's too much and 46 needs to be aware of some real measure, and these soldiers and quality training and training to be able to go on peace missions. Thank you. - What's the matter with you?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19155	The word is from MP Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, at the Commission on Finance and Budget, the SDA MPs or the members of the Commission in front of the SDA set out the view that they would not support the proposed Budget for the Principles of the Law on the Budget of the Institutions and International Obligations of BiH for 2013 in relation to the budget for 2013, they were not corrected in the sense we were now talking about, as regards the Global Fiscal Framework, i.e. frozen funds for the financing of the BiH state at the level of 2008. We were then, sometime last year in this era, pointing out that the Global fiscal framework was based on illegal and non-transparent adoption for the period 2012-2015 just because the funds for the financing of the BiH state in the coming period were frozen at the level of 2008. The result of such a principled attitude was that we, as a party, were effectively expelled from the parliamentary majority, our ministers were removed and the same thing is happening today when it comes to the proposed budget, the amount of funds and we think it is not good for the BiH state, that this Global Fiscal Framework was adopted solely with the goal of weakening the BiH state, paralysing its work in view of the obligations BiH has on the European and NATO path. In the same period and last and this year, entity budgets are growing. At least what the Fiscal Council was supposed to do this year, it didn't, is that using Article 11. The Fiscal Council Act is revised by the Global Fiscal Framework, sees the possibility of enlargement and thus creates certain preconditions that in this year, the budget of the BiH institution has more resources and that it can actually service all these obligations that it needs to serve through the institutions of the BiH state. The budget of the state then returned to 2008 even though we had already in the period from 2008 to now the new 15 institutions have already been built, and here I repeat once again, since then, the entity's budgets have been growing once or often with the reason that only this growth is being seen to increase external debt payments. However, we were aware that pay-outs and fees in entity governments were greatly increased compared to that starting position that was not happening in the BiH state budget. Well, here we are a few hours ago, were we witnessing that, through the amendment of the Law establishing the Electricity Transfer Company, we are also trying to build up certain funds in the entity budget and we don't need to be too smart to see how these funds are used in entity budgets. So that was one of the basic reasons why we've been through, and this year, we're going to do it that way and we're not going to support the principles of the proposed budget. Through discussions and on the Commission, and also here on a few occasions, when entities are concerned, they talk about the space in which life takes place. Here it seems in BiH that the Council of Ministers, or this Parliament, are not in charge of the lives of citizens, then I do not know what they are in charge of, obviously that this life is taking place at lower levels of government, under the signs of what I am saying, according to colleagues who have said it. However, it is forgotten to say that entities are not only in charge of service, to provide 47 social and other categories through their work framework, but are in charge and not only in charge of hiring people in the administrative sector, they are also in charge of repairing the situation in the real sector. Here I ask the question of what has been done by the entity governments to bring the real sector to life and to have investments, to have new jobs that would fill, not only the entity's budget, but also the budget of the BiH state. So, the BiH State Parliament, or the Council of Ministers, has become a service to entity governments. They're knocking so much millions we're short of, let's move it a little bit from the state, the parliamentary majority is turning around a little bit and finding solutions to how to settle this deficit in entity budgets. And then when we start the story, here we who are realistically looking at strengthening the BiH state or when we look at the little planned budget, agree with those who say they lack the funds so that the BiH state institutions can function. So, the indisputable fact is that the Prosecutor's Office and the Constitutional Court would be able to fulfil their obligations at full capacity and on the human and material sides to meet their obligations, that what was planned is insufficient for one such activity, the Ministry of Defence and not to speak. So our mouths are full of stories about the Ministry, about the Armed Forces, and when we need to find the means to make these Armed Forces work the way they operate in all the normal countries of the world, then we deny them the means. When we adopt the Return Strategy in this Parliament, then let us forget the obligation to plan a part of the funds so that this Strategy can be implemented on the ground. That the Election Commission has decidently told her what is missing at this point so that she could spend the election cycle in full capacity in 2014. And it means a number of other things that, in the opinion of us at the SDA Club, cannot be redistributed from the internal reserve, but the budgetary framework needs to be expanded so that with some additional 50 million of us can plan and that institutions with these budgets, with such budgets, can respond in a way to meet their planned commitments, as from now on, is it with new increased funding funds. For these reasons, the SDA Club will also in this second reading, if you let us last time we had three hours, I would ask you to at least have 4 hours to make, write the amendments, but these amendments will go in that direction to make this budget framework extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19157	Thank you. The word has an MP, Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to start by saying that the macroeconomic framework for the BiH Budget, and the entities already adopted, does not offer any great expectations regarding the economic upturn for next year. But what is most important should ensure the concept of development in which re-industrialisation takes on importance and growth, an export-led economic growth, becomes a dominant concept of growth. Domestic consumption is low, and only exports fuelled by economic volatility, primarily in the EU, should be a growth generator in the coming year. In this regard, the issue of how BiH's public spending policies, whose concept was yet to begin at the time of the escalation of the global economic crisis, is also interesting, so the authorities in 2008 and 2009, have also launched an activity to make it a stand-by-the-IMF deal. In doing so, other options are consciously or unconsciously ignored, i.e. they are not given priority, e.g. tax hikes, before 48 of all VAT, to which many countries in Europe have resorted in the environment. Furthermore, no priority has been given to the sale of state capital, which has also been resorted to by many countries found in the sharp crisis in this period. Therefore, the concept of an election or relying on a stand-by arrangement with the IMF was the choice of economic policies to be implemented until today. And that concept to declare today by missing or declaring debt slavery and so on, seems to be at least a very, very adolescence approach, an approach that is simply not mature. I guess we didn't know what we were getting into, so now we're criticizing what we came into. I still want to point out that in front of the SDP Club, I think it was the best choice and that we must insist on that concept. So, structural reforms, reforms needed under the stand-by arrangement with the support of the loan that the arrangement gives. It was the best choice for BiH as a small open economy. Many are running away from the IMF because it forces them to reform and practically gives them a certain dictatorship. I believe keeping the IMF's arage is a strong guarantee that reforms will be carried out continuously in BiH within the framework of the arazman. And I think it's good for BiH's development needs, to create an environment where business environment, investment, jobs and so on will improve. And in this context, I am also looking at this Budget of the BiH institutions. I think that we had right on the line of this good public policy package and that we had especially at the level of the institutions of a good base and documents for a stable budget of BiH institutions. First of all, I am referring to the document of the D.O.B. Framework Budget. It is a document that provided security, stability to the BiH institutions' budget and while entity budgets are burdened with major deficits, the budget at the level of BiH institutions is covered, although there is no expenditure or revenue growth, but enough space has been created for this to ensure the development of BiH institutions, above all on the line of findings of the Office for Audit and our recommendations, which were based on this. And we show, over the past year 2013, that the 2012 Budget was sufficient for the development of institutions for 2013 and that there was no reason for such pessimistic views and for the requirements for expanding this framework. I think the situation is similar today.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19159	Comrade Domazet, let me give you an instruction. So, all those who are not MPs, please leave the parliamentary benches. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19160	So, I think that in further increasing the efficiency of using public money in BiH institutions, we have plenty of space, and this budget is a major contribution because it is based on the principles of strategic planning. We have here, therefore, the objectives that some institutions carry, we have programmes, we have resources for this human, finance and others, and I think that this is a step further in the progress towards preparing the BiH institutions' budget. I would like to express my regret that this budget has not been adopted within the deadlines set by the IMF for, as deadlines for the submission of the 5th tranche stand by credit, and I think that this presidency should have been much more on the line of joint efforts to maintain the deadline of December 9, because, in addition to the deadlines for the delivery of the draft budget, there was plenty of time in the Presidency to carry out all the activities to prepare the proposal and thus avoid the difficult consequences that can now be expected for breaking these deadlines. I do not believe and I am not sure that the time spent has resulted in some added value, even if I think that the concept that the Council of Ministers has established has now been disturbed and that it will need to be highly regulated, corrected and brought to the level of those needs, by those solutions given in the Draft set by the Council of Ministers. So, speaking of the principles of the Law, it is very difficult to stick to some standard guidance on what the principles are and how we stick to them, we have maintained at this level and as SDP Club we will support, so the principles of this Law, and in the amendment phase we will be very active in proposing amendments to which we will calculate to the maximum extent possible to bring the draft given by the Council of Ministers of BiH. I'm sorry to bother you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19161	Thank you, three replicas. First, Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19162	Very briefly, because MP Domazet in some ways devoted a good part of his presentation to the commentary of the argument that I was making here. It is true that in the 2006-2010 term, in the situation you were talking about, we have resorted to this variant, so from accepting IMF support and in the election year, we have been fiercely criticised for this and future election winners have announced that they will break these arrangements and that practice. And of course now the SDP has matured in the meantime and accepts this as one of the possible solutions. In most of the discussion, I completely agree. But this time I want to point out one fact for future replicas and for future, different ways of looking at things. So, the BiH Party that participated in the mandate in 2006-2010 was punished by citizens and we lost the elections and probably because of some of the things that are being talked about here. The winners announced absolute changes, the programme coalition, the new spirit and so on. Here you go, gentlemen. Do it. I only sincerely hope that voters and citizens will act the same way in 2010 towards the stranka for BiH, that they will treat the 2010 SDP election winner as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19163	Ambassador Amir Fazlić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19164	Well, here's under the auspices of the replica, the esteemed Professor Domazet, although in many things I agree with some of his findings, but some of them are not clear to me and I'd like to rephrase and get an explanation. First, if the proper borrowing policy with the IMF, the professor explained it, explained on behalf of the SDP why, how, and in our case, dilemmas, polemics, controversy in the world, in the world economy, in the European economy, is that right or wrong, so the professor is a little bit more in these waters, I would like a little clarification there. Is that just right and in conditions where we have a large percentage of the grey economy in BiH, meaning with one financial discipline, the discipline of all of us in BiH, there can also be an increase in the budget and some things about borrowing, probably also averted. 50 The second finding, Budjet says, is based on the principles of strategic planning. This sounds nice, as we say, strategic planning, but in BiH, the cantons, the Federation, the RS entity and many others, many strategies have fallen. That's why I'm interested, so those strategies didn't work out what we were planning. That's why I'm interested in this strategic planning, what the professor meant by that. And here I agree with him, says the presidency needed a little more activity to honor this deadline by 09. I have stated in my presentation, because we have received an act where everyone's responsibility is seen, that the Council of Ministers was late for 35 days, that only the Ministry was late and when we look at this chain of delays and when we see that the Presidency received this act there somewhere on 20.11. that already on 05.12. had a session, so within 15 days, you wouldn't exactly take all responsibility to an institution. My finding was that here we have all set up in this chain, but other than what my colleague says, except for us Parliament has the greatest responsibility but we have indeed been brought into this situation. We were brought here because of this chain I called in my presentation. That's why you wouldn't be replicating this to a professor here if it was this critical, unsightly who said from which party, from the fiscal council itself, that's where the prime minister began to be late in the programme of bringing Budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19165	Ambassador Salko Sokolović, first replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, look, it's a replica to Mr. Domazet. So, we who live in BiH with our children, as long as we have to take care of how much this debt slavery will be. We can't just theoretically write it, so that's it. In many cases, the theory has proved to be impractical in practice. Books put up with everything. Life suffers something completely different. And that's why I stress, all those who live with their family in this country must take care of how they enter, and part of that debt slavery? I wish we'd heard a story here about how 1,800,000 debts for which we don't have programmes, for which we started paying and foaming, we'd get into the profit process, so we'd open up some capacity, we'd go into some infrastructure that would bring profits, not what the IMF would give us during the day and night and bring us into debt slavery. So, one part as long as it takes, but don't forget this about us living with our families in this country, we need to take special care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19167	MP Dušanka Majkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19168	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we were just some of these debaters who had just listened, they would say that it was about new political parties, who have no memory of any recent involvement in the government and that all the problems encourage the moment this government was established, and only there are the troubles that encourage, everything else is forgotten. So there's one twisted piece of information I didn't even have until just now someone from the Council of Ministers brought in a document that clearly and precisely says that the chronology of Budget was going on. So we see in this that only 23.10. is the end of the story of the global framework of fiscal balance and policy and that the final agreement and adoption of the finance ministry called for a few 51 times. And on several occasions, entities, starting from some of their obligations, have postponed the session. There's no story about the budget without defining the fiscal framework. And you can't make a budget before that, no matter what it says in our Rules of Procedure. And if you have so many actors in one country, then it's clear why we're in the situation we're in. So the Council of Ministers could only approach the creation of Budget after 23.10. And what happened? 14.11. The Council of Ministers delivered the proposal, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, submitted the proposal to the Council of Ministers, which adopted it on 19.11. So there's one chronology that can't be escaped from, and this Council of Ministers has no delays, there's an excuse that's clearly written chronologically what's been done at what point. Now let's talk about the presidency. First of all, if the Bureau is a proposing, where are the members of the Bureau here, especially those who took on well-stamped pens and suggested here? And finally, if there is one relevant fact, which is that Budget never accepts the opposition, how can it be proposed by opposition political parties, or one member who is the opposition, another who does not know what it is. Of the 3 members of the Bureau only one is relevant from the aspect of the position and he is not (?) microphone not enabled I pray that those who give sermons to others now keep their thoughts to themselves. So it's amazing that the opposition is proposing Budget and to make chaos complete, she had to do what she did. Based on what capacity did the Bureau do what it did? What knowledge did the Bureau have that it might, say, increase his budget to the Ministry of Defence? And just for information on the defence ministry, in 2008, the Ministry of Defence left 13.65 million, in 2009, 30 million, I'm talking about the non-execution of the budget, so that's how much budget left untapped. In 1020, 10.5 million, 2011 they covered it because Budget was adopted on the basis of execution, in 2011, 7 million, we will see how it will be in 2013. In such a constitution with the Ministry of Defence, which fails to spend what is given him, regardless of all the problems he has, we are in a position to suggest that someone be executed and this is like a counter-proposal to Nebojša Radmanović who says a reduction of the number of soldiers, which is not there, once again the opposition to even initiate a conversation on the subject. An army that eats 90% of the budget is not an army that needs neither BiH nor BiH, but there is no willingness to open a debate on the subject. The second story is about the security sector. What, that's a story to open, don't talk about these things, the Ministry of Security with 200 people who are only in charge of coordination. What does the Department of Security coordinate with 200 people? Or a security sector involving more than 5,200 people. What did we get from this, we also saw in the attacks on the American Embassy and on the blockade of Parliament, where is our security sector? But there's no end to the absurdities we have to deal with. I expected my colleagues on the subject to talk. Where are these resources that should be an incentive to develop? It's some political parties that have suddenly turned into opposition, they don't see it that way. Anything that can be kept up, operated or dysfunctioned, let it remain, and the rest we will take from the entities to make BiH develop. Now, that story was told a long time ago, and she can't rest on it anymore. Of the 4 new security institutions we've established for them we're giving about 35 million new budgets, 52 we should give, and they hire about 1,000 people. What good do we have from them? Here we are building a building for institutions called the Educational and Professional Training Agency, and in six years it has educated only 60 people, because entities, the RS, have their own school, the Federation has its own school, I don't know who we're studying for. The Agency for Forensic Studies, we've been at the debate for two days now about the defence-security sector and we've seen that the Agency for Forensic Studies and Engineering is trying to buy a new DNA lab even though there are already 17. So is that the rationality of the budget we need to talk about? That's the thing here to discuss well first and order the Council of Ministers to deal with the team, but to tell these fairy tales that we've heard in the session so far. So I believe that the principles of the law should be supported and I believe that the proposal for this law should be returned to the level that it had previously gone to, the massacre of the Presidency and thus end this story around the Budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19170	Ambassador Belkić Beriz, had a discussion and a replica, has the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19171	Here's to spending what I have, so the replica is Ms. Majkić's MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19172	Don't I?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19173	Yeah, yeah. So, although it was finally said that the debate was about the principle of rationality, MP Majkić spoke of concrete things, items, amounts etc., which I disagree with for the following reasons. So, the BiH budget is slightly below 8%, even 8% of the total public spending in BiH. Train strictness and try to save at 7.8% of total public spending, does not promise very special results. In this context and the costs of individual structures, including the structure of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces, should, although global practice, be compared to gross rational income. And as far as I know, we're spinning around here somewhere. It's not easy to get out, and we're gonna say, and we're gonna have to reduce 1,000 soldiers. It may take 3,000 soldiers to reduce, but before that, a defence review needs to be carried out, a regional agreement on the balance of forces and a number of other things should be considered before that. So maybe we'll have to cut by 5,000-6,000, maybe demilitarize the region, save a lot of money. So I simply reported correctness for the purpose of observing the indicators in total public consumption, because the budget of BiH is only 7.8% of public spending and is also slowly becoming a transitional transition account for the service of debts, i.e. the loans of entities and Brcko, because the position of service of international obligations and the Budget of BiH has almost been offset. I think we should take care of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19174	Dušanka Majkić, replica. 53 15:13:04 15:13:04--------
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19175	Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, I am pleased that your opinion in the meantime has evolved and that you have come to the point where it is best to carry out the demiitarianization. I am very pleased that our long-standing work on this topic has been bearing fruit and that you are increasingly accepting it as one reality. But don't say it's a percentage for that, so it doesn't need any more. I expect you, as an old parliamentarian, as a longtime parliamentarian, to forgive here, I expect you to be rational about it and say it – it doesn't matter what the BiH institution is if it doesn't behave rationally. I expected it. There's no institution I'd raise my hands for if she didn't deserve it. And you say, everything BiH deserves to exist because it's 8%... Don't, you did say so. You always... no, no, it's the BiH institution, don't touch it. It won't get us anywhere. We need as much money as we have, to create conditions for some kind of development. By keeping this attitude, that everything that is BiH, cannot be criticised and commented, will not lead us anywhere.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19176	The first replica, MP Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19177	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I wasn't going to speak within this agenda. My colleagues from the club have said everything we have to say, but I still cannot without giving an answer to the constant objections to BiH institutions, from individual colleagues and colleagues. Mrs. Majkić does not choose an opportunity, so here is the debate on the Budžet, to try to reduce importance, minimise the importance and highlight the demand for a reduction in the number of BiH institutions. I have stood up to say that Budget is a serious document and that it is seriously to be debated and that it is not necessary to use the opportunity to highlight others and achieve other goals. No one will reduce the number of BiH institutions and no one will reduce the number, e.g. Members of the BiH Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces, and don't repeat it again, because it will never come your way. BiH will not be an exception to all countries in the region. It is known that our Armed Forces are based on NATO standards relative to the size of the territory, compared to the number of inhabitants as they are in Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Macedonia and Montenegro and all other countries. BiH will not be the exception nor BiH will be demilitarized, Ms. Majkić, as much as you hoped to achieve it and as much as you wish. We will, even when we have a problem with the fiscal framework my colleagues spoke of, this time in office as a member of the SDA presidency, fight to help these institutions financially enough to function. And Mr. Izetbegović's intervention in the BiH presidency went that way. You are announcing and I have seen it, not just from your discussion, but from many other discussions of those who intend to support Budget in the first reading, that you will return it to its initial state. You will do so and, and that is why, among other things, we announce that we will vote against the Budget in both the first and second readings. That's it, thank you. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19178	Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19179	I understand that what you're saying is in the domain of an opposition MP whose capabilities are as much as the power of his political party, within a mile that currently exists. It means modest. And one piece of information that you haven't had yet, to tell you that the new defence review you've done and delivered to the Presidency contains exactly the element of the reduction of the Armed Forces that you're so concerned about. So you won't decide at all. There will come a time when where it will not be a member of the Bureau who will be able to create such chaos as he did with the Budget. We believe deep down that the clues left by your policy and your authority until recently are such that it will be difficult to fix, but don't worry, they will be repaired.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19180	The word has a message, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19181	Thank you, Chairman. I really need to look back on the words of my esteemed colleague Džaferović and say that I am quite surprised, because I think he is always a rational man. A colleague of Džaferović, a force or whatever you say, however you will, BiH is not measured by the strength of its institutions, but by what its economic race is, what its real sector is and how its citizens live. If you think that power would count by having 30-40 thousand employees at BiH level, having Budget and twice as big as this, you're wrong. It is the best way for citizens to stand up against such BiH. I'm sorry these institutions don't share the fate of the rest of the country, that we've become alienated. Both you and me and all of us here are citizens of the whole of BiH, distinguished and viewed as politicians who spend money there, who throw away, while they have nothing to eat, while they remain jobless, while there are 550,000 unemployed in this country. I will tell you and I really don't understand how the representatives of the RS even agreed to this global fiscal framework for a simple reason because in the first 11 months, net income from indirect taxes was lower by 88 million. It'll probably be 100 million by the end of the year. In the RS, the next year's budget is less VAT revenue than in 2012. So is the Federation. The municipalities, those lower levels of government, on average have about 11% less income than VAT. It's just that everything stays on the same level here. And to the citizens, you agree, the nearest municipality to which they are given development projects is the closest their republican and municipal budgets, where are they targeted and social giving and what are they living from, and what are we doing here? We're adopting one Budget that we're going to give the Presidency there about 60 more people who, waiter, coffee cook, etc., it says here that the Joint Jobs Service needs 60 more employees. Do we need, here's an example of the BiH concessions Commission from 2005 to today, spent around 8 million marks. Do you know how many cases they solved? By letter and by number four. They say 4, so I believe them, let them be 4. So can't the entity concession committees meet together in those four cases and solve them instead of giving someone 8 million marks? So here's 8 million marks, if you need to go to the Budget Federation for that people out there who have nothing to eat. I'm afraid we're acting like megalomaniacs, piling up the administration here, not acting rationally. Niko one says here 55.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19182	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19183	Here I go. There are institutions that are doing a great job. And there are institutions that I would even increase the budget because they work well. But also, let's be objective, there are institutions that have not responded to the task set before them.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19184	Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19185	Some strange day, I have to admit to my colleague Pandurević, 10 for the essence and for the artistic impression, for what was just said. And I'm behind it. And I contacted a respected colleague, Džaferović, probably, I don't suppose I'll use this term that my colleague Majkić said, he's not an old parliamentarian, he's a checked parliamentarian. And I don't think he thought anyone would change that. I believe he left a point. And I believe that he left, he might think here about us, but he knows, supporting some power centers outside of this country, that if they say, everything will change to the end. So there are institutions outside and centres of power that listen unspeakably and when they say it will be... is Captain. And that's what we know. But until that happens, here I am if you can't convince someone of something, then you can join him. If this, this support to the Armed Forces of BiH is this fierce by Džaferović, I suppose this budget item should also include this Syrian annex. That it's the product of all these stories and that these people shouldn't be able to cope with NGOs right now and I don't know how to finance their way, and people are dealing with weapons, armed actions, activities. So when he goes, let him go, where he asks to go, let him go. Put it in place and then into the Armed Forces and make it go that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19186	Let's still focus the debate, it has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19187	I reported to the esteemed chairman because, I do not need to speak positively about the discussions of colleagues and colleagues from my club, but if someone quite rationally says and proves and convinces people that we should not waste money and spend money and today is the subject of this, there is no need to turn it to a whole other political discussion, because Mr. Džaferović is totally convinced of what counterpart Majkić said, completely convinced. But of course, there's a problem with the public saying, and this attitude defends an unreserved one that's more indefensible than anyone else believes in. And the regional relationship has changed since the time when the foundations of what he was talking about were established, in the meantime many, many things have changed and changed quickly. And here, on several occasions, we realized that only we here don't notice that everything around us is changing in Croatia and Serbia, and I don't know either, but we would remember some time that stands on this so that I absolutely support this story and it will eventually come to the support of all and BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19188	Ambassador Salko Sokolović, correction of the wrong allegations. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19189	Let me finish with these replicas. I asked dear Šefik, don't think the same thing, he just told me, just so you know, because he won't answer the line. Secondly, it's too bad SNSD and SDS split up, that's too bad. How could this unity be now, what kind of unity it was, so that's it. But a... from SNSD, from SDS, Mrs. Pandurević, it's all over the arm, if there's no head, and Bosnia's head. So you have to keep that head. Well, I don't think... the head is coordinating movements and that's BiH and this is a legislative body and that's what the Council of Ministers and all that's the state institution in BiH. But it's like sitting on your ears. Well, just now, Mr. Belkić was saying, what is financing the state in those 12 billion of all cash flows in BiH, from municipalities, cantons, entities, etc. 630 million for wages seems to me in a year, when it comes to state institutions. You spend over four billion out there. That's where you fuck and protect this country, and that's where you look for thieves, and I can't steal here too much. I don't see... Let's cut our wages. Is that a problem? But to give them to the Department of Defense, only under such circumstances. You from SNSD, you don't have a captain in Trebinj and Trebinje doesn't care. I'm interested in both Konjic and Jablanica and Trebinje and everything. And that's why I'd like this Budget to have a Canadian in it. Well, Mr. Bevanda will call Milanović one morning and Milanović will raise his left leg and will not give us a Canadian to put out the fire. Why don't we think about it a little bit, when we're making the Budget of the BiH State? So far, the man stood up on his right leg and gave us. I figure in July, he'll get up on the left and he won't give us that morning. We'll burn Trebinje, burn down Jablanica and Konjic, and I don't know where Mrs. Majkić came from, and they're all good BiH, people who get killed in those fires, etc. We make Budget, we never remember the Canadians. Just as that host when he has moisture in his house, remember in winter that he will eliminate it, when he forgets about it in summer. That's why this Budget isn't good. That is why the budgetary framework needs to be breached, and it needs for these important things that the BiH state will be able to help the peoples and citizens effectively at a given time. And unless we act that way, if she's our problem, we won't be able to solve those problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19190	Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19191	...an incorrect quote for distinguished colleagues of Šefik Džaferović, then Aleksandar Pandurević and Salko Sokolović. First, Šefik Džaferović spoke of the number of members of the Armed Forces and said that we want as..... exactly, BiH wants to have an assembly of members of the Armed Forces as Slovenia, because it is one of the few countries of the former Yugoslavia that has only 3,000 members. A slightly more irrational approach to the number of members of the Armed Forces has Croatia, Serbia, and Montenegro has an excellent approach to this point. What does that mean? With a 100 million budget reduction, a total of 75 institutions of 950 million, only 24 has a budget of more than 10 million KM. 650 million KM goes to Armed Forces, State Border Service, these different police structures and mostly the Foreign Ministry, etc. So we would be in a position to save one 100 million KM and to be in a situation where we can talk together, with a reduction in the number of members of the Armed Forces. I fully agree that we need a Canadian to put an end to the fire, and that's not the problem with BiH having it. The region needs to have one center in that sense. 57 The second question you're saying, so in that sense, I think we're going to make a significant move. Another question you said, that we don't worry, yes, the SNSD takes care of every municipality in the RS. Investments in every municipality in the RS are bigger, so bigger than in any situation the local community is getting up to invest. And one correction of the wrong allegations for counterpart Pandurević, he went to the Commission for concessions, not to denzinform the public. The Commission's concession budget is 978,000, I must say immediately, because I believe that the BiH-level institution should not exist. And we can't wait for the initiative to start to vote to abolish the concession commission. But I will remind you, your minister has called a competition for the selection of members of the concession commission, and only in one list in BiH and only on one condition, although the Commission's mandate has expired for several years. So, I advocate in principle that this is 978,000 budgets, not 8 million, so that the public is not misinformed, but these are,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19192	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19193	You're not, that's right now, thank you if you're correcting yourself now, but you said... but these are unnecessary funds and enormous, because that Commission has only the purpose of having itself and it shouldn't have 7 or 8 members, but if it should have 1,2 or 2 or 3 members, I apologize, which entities would suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19194	Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19195	Thank you. I wanted to replicate my colleague Sokolović, but it looks like I'm going to have to work with my colleagues first. I told Mr. Prodanović eight years ago. I mean, maybe you didn't hear well, so that's an opportunity for that amount. As far as the competition is concerned, the concessions commission is an independent body which is not covered by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the competition was formally called by the Ministry on the basis of the conclusion of the unanimous Council of Ministers, voted by the SNSD ministers. Dear counterpart Sokolović, you say how many others have budgets, but you forget that there is a part and a health sector, pension, social contributions, incentives for the economy, which unfortunately does not, is at least given there. If that's where the development projects are going from, that's where, let's say where we'd be going with all these major roads, even if it wasn't for the pre-election campaigns, if it wasn't for these budgets. That's where the citizens live, that's where the social benefits come from. Isn't it a shame that the social categories of the population have, I don't know, 140 seems to me, that social assistance is in the RS and that here in the institutions we have this number of employees and not because they need to, but because of the systematizations, there are always new systems to be created when some don't know, best man, cousin, son. So we have, I know here's one of your former colleagues here from your party, when he comes through Parliament and says good day cousin, half of Parliament has turned. It's not a solution. The solution is that we have functional institutions, that we have professional people who work in these institutions. And when you talk about our disagreement or disagreement with the SNSD, I must say 58 last night I listened to President Radmanović in an RTRS interview and fully agree with his views. I couldn't agree more, and he said the man said nicely that the presidency wasn't informed about the loans and arrangements with the IMF even though it had to be. So, someone from these entity governments, both of them, didn't inform the presidency. Furthermore, President Radmanović said last night that he had learned about these arrangements and deadlines from the media. President Radmanović also said that President Komšić is absolutely right about the constitutionality of the arrangement with the IMF. Here's if I should quote a man -- says someone in BiH doesn't matter who, signs an agreement with the IMF, it's an international contract between BiH and the IMF, whether it's entity governments or some others sign it. By law, everything has to go through the presidency. There is no current international agreement between any BiH institution and the international institution, unless the presidency adopted it and Parliament agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19196	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19197	Here I go. Finally, President Radmanović says there, as a member of the presidency, he will insist on the rule of law, both within the country and on those outside. I don't know what SNSD's official position is, whether what President Dodik or President Radmanovic say, but I fully support President Radmanović's views.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19198	Replica, deputy chairman, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19199	Thank you. The first incorrect quote was given to a respected counterpart, Džaferović, who said he was a member of the SDA presidency. As the Constitution currently states, a member of the Presidency as far as I can read the Constitution, from the Bosniak people's order and that it happens to belong as a member of the SDA party. I can't say for another member of the Croatian people, whether he even belongs to the Croatian people and which party he belongs to, but I am sure of a member, that he is a member of the Bosniak people. The other thing, we here watching Budget come from, from whom he came, who suggested it, this Budget is neither party nor positional, nor opposition, but subjective. And this Budget, if we MPs sitting here right now, don't turn into a budget that will fit all BiH citizens, it will remain in that part. My proposal, and I think the best solution, to be temporary funding, so that the IMF and all others, who are constantly speculating about what needs to be done in this BiH, how to behave, who should respect the deadlines, say they can't do it in this country anymore and so is it. And you colleagues who think you should propose amendments, think about what it's like to increase the BiH Prosecutor's Office, who would be masochists if we suggested it, both this Parliament and all the leaders and all the leaders in BiH are calling, processing, questioning, because of all sorts of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19200	Replica, Danijela Martinović. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19201	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'd like to replicate to the distinguished colleagues of the SDA Club. So the question is raised, they keep asking the question and bringing, therefore, under question, the height of the 950 million KM budget. That's not enough. And really if we had the funds, I'd be to be not 950 but, if necessary, 2 billion. However, in a situation where VAT has fallen, when our entities have to service an external debt of more than 800 million marks, the question arises, where will you find these funds? As far as I know, and members of your government in the Federal Parliament, so from the U.S.A., as well as members of the SDA, members of the SDA Club also voted in favour of the Federation's budget of more than 2 billion. Therefore, you should be consistent about this matter, or you should not have voted for that height of Budget, if it is pre-named or therefore not to vote for this Budget. So you should have found that middle. And when it comes to economic reforms, what has been done. It's done quite a bit, but I think you should ask your ministers, who are key in the sectors in charge of economic reform and development, at the entity level, which is the Ministry of Enterprise and Trade and the Ministry of Industry and Energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19202	Ambassador Dragan Vrankić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19203	Thank you, well-respected colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. I've almost lost my will to report, or to discuss how long I've waited for these replicas, but here, that's, once again, to confirm where we are and what our relationships are. I should say immediately on behalf of the HDZ Club that we will support the principles of this Law and that through the amendment phase, we will improve what we think we need to fix. There has often been a question here today about who the position is, who the opposition is. I'd say that the few who have at least been here in this last year were not at least a little position or opposition, so few who can wash with water that they didn't participate without talking about a longer period of time, since when this problem is at stake. When we see the Budget of BiH institutions, then we just say that it is the Budget of the BiH institutions, then the word or fact itself speaks, of course, and the external debt is the entity's external debt. They're almost leveled. 950 million versus 846 million, so only the entity's external debt is almost how much state budget or what counterpart Belkić said, 7% or somewhere here from the opportunity of all public revenues or 15% of the income of the single account. We can talk about all this with more aspects. It's a relative matter of comparison. However, if we remember that at the last session of this Parliament we were discussing an audit report, and then we said that... the basic problems of ours are because we do not have established standards, criteria, so that we can, on the basis of these standards, say whether something belongs to someone and whether it is done as it should be done. This is how we leave the position to discuss everything else on a flat-rate basis. 60 I think you can also ask one and the other questions about whether the budget is small. So I'd say how much we can agree, that he's too big and he's too real and he's giving us too much, how little we're making progress in there. Here's the previous or first point of today's agenda, we're not getting up to agree on the bar for those discussions that were, we'll see when the vote, how to spend 350 million, it seems to me that 1,200 people have been employed in this Transfer and we should as an energy sector to develop as something that is richest in BiH, to get out, said Professor Domazet, to encourage..... one of the ways and ways of getting out of the economic crisis. So here's just a few of the facts I compared, to show how much it is, we often behave demagoguely and how much contradictions are within BiH. It's not a matter of position. It's a matter of opposition. It's something else. I think that in the very structure of the adoption of the budget, there is an expression of whether, this complex structure, here to be a little, chosen word, the structure of BiH. We have a fiscal council that, when we passed this Law, I took part in this, rejoiced in this Law, this Fiscal Council. I expected that many of these dilemmas that we are opening today will be resolved through the Fiscal Council and that these relations that are within the Joint Institutions of BiH, entities and lower levels, the county and municipalities, that they will resolve these relations, to see how we will create development, where the greatest responsibilities are, and how we will share incomes and how we will have the best effect, I do not think the answer is given. The document has led to the distribution of income from a single account, where, for, how, for the next three years, BiH has cemented 750 and 950 million marks, respectively, and I am now wondering why we should have waited so long to adopt the budget when this is the same budget as last year? That's 2%. As of this summer, I can't adopt a document of the Framework Budget, so I don't know the Presidency has to react how it reacts, so now we're in a position to return it or not return it. I think the thing here is very simple, and I don't actually see what could be discussed so much in this 2% that maybe someone needs to change, because it's also a cut-off this year and it's going to happen the same way. When it comes to basic things about, or some of the principles or standard approaches, when you look at the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, then you see that consumption, when it comes to this budget, is under extreme control, which is, of course, the merit and the work that we've been doing through the analysis, which we've been doing with our audit. One of the basic principles that the budget is balanced, here we see that it is balanced. What I don't understand is, these 15 million deficits, that is, whether this is domestic or external debt and whether BiH can be in debt, because we said the single account, so take what the state needs, then I don't see this need for this task, but here, I don't have enough information to say whether or not it's what it's about. When it comes to planning, we can also see that it's pretty solid. Obligation-making procedures also so that very procedures have reached one standard that can pass. When it comes to employment, we've also limited ourselves. There is no employment, there is a decision on the Council of Ministers and certain resources, if any institutions need to, etc. But there's one thing I'm going to say right now. Maybe it'd be good for you to think about it, to get rid of the kind of debate we're having today. We have here one item from the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which is called restructure, means certain positions that stand, which gives us operationality and that's good and should be. When there is trust, I, like here, who can... from the position of both executive and legislative authorities, would give a very high degree of that possibility, because of the pragmatic and better spending of funds and 61 solving problems that occur. If we now see that the budget is the same or 2% difference as it was last year, this one, so I guess next year, I see that we can adopt the budget for next year immediately and just empower the Council of Ministers for possible restructuring. And if there's a little need somewhere, it comes down to it. And I think it's something that can be discussed and that we're actually in that position. What I think is, for me, the biggest observation of this calculation is when it comes to a certain economy that can be seen through the lease of space. I think we've been speaking dishonestly for many years how we should equip BiH institutions, we should buy space, not pay rent, it costs a lot of 20-30 million marks.... I don't know exactly how much it costs, I think it's 20 million marks. If we're only in charge of one year, we buy all these rooms, we build, we build, I think we can almost pay back our anunities with this lease. It takes 10 years, and for the next 100 years, the institutions' rooms remain, and I think that's the approach that we have to do and that, I don't see why anyone can find a grudge in this political thought and that I think that, in one way, we have to look at it. I'm going to say one more sentence, since there was talk of external debt here, since there was a lot of talk about the IMF and this deadline given by the IMF. I think Professor Domazet said that, I support it absolutely completely. We have committed ourselves through this programme to structural reforms. In those reforms that are often painful and painful, we've got a carrot called a loan. It's not a loan from the International Monetary Fund, very cheap, very short-term. But what's inside of us is a problem. We, because of our inability to reach consensus, cannot implement these reforms. And now we're in a position where the reforms haven't given us results and the short-term, short-term loan has to come back. And we are already in this position here, 846 million, I think there are some I don't know, you can say 15-20 million already has the first war, which has arrived, which we took three years ago from the same arrangement or the first phase of the arrangement, that we now have to return. So then I'd say let's not worry too much about the IMF now, he's interested in extending our deadline, because we've become his debtors and he'll definitely meet us in that part, if it's 5 or 10 days, these deadlines that are set. But I think that the key to structural reform that we need to make in BiH and that there is no alternative, and the other part that is also causing us a problem, is negotiating within BiH, reaching consensus. It's the key to success. If we can do that, then we'll have less discussion about political items, about the Budget and we'll discuss more really the standards and the elements that are necessary in the analytical approach, in each of the spending items. Thank you very much. - I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19204	Ambassador Borislav Bojić's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19205	Here I will try to make a few points about this proposal, first of all from a few of the facts relating primarily to the revenue and, of course, to the expenditure side, starting with the fact that my colleague Pandurević presented, and it should primarily be the basis for planning the budget itself, and it comes from the Fiscal Council and the Fiscal Framework which has been established and has not respected several facts, and the basic fact that the Fiscal Council did not have in mind is the question of falling indirect incomes. This kind of fact was meant to define among other things a completely different approach in making this Budget. In fact, by the end of this year, 62 declines in revenue will certainly be more than a hundred million as said by a colleague, and there is absolutely right, and apropo and facts of that kind, therefore, the data that should have been provided by the Fiscal Council as the basis or that head that should have taken care of whether the feet were in the mud, should have, above all, been the result of the fact that entities and local communities, therefore this type of burden to bear, and they objectively cannot, nor did those who made this plan respect the fact that virtually entities and local communities would receive the burden of these hundreds of millions that we do not have from indirect taxes. Also when it comes to planning growth so-called growth. non-taxable income, and this applies to these taxes, to the ID cards, to passports, to the license plate, to everything that's planned, seems to me that there's a lot of money in there and that it doesn't care about the standard of citizens at all. It would be good for the Council of Ministers to think better about allowing citizens when it comes to replacing these documents to be something that will, among other things, follow the state of the economic power of citizens and that fact should be accepted, because this is really about huge increases when it comes to so-called. non-tax revenue relating to personal documents, tables and all that is planned. The external debt was here, because indeed this significant external debt debt of 7% is something that is a fact and ultimately the original income itself is in decline and when it is considered practically these facts, it seems to me that this is not how this Budget came about, because basically those elements that were supposed to be the guideline of the budget itself were not included, and for these reasons simply this document was not designed to be measured primarily by the power of financial in BiH. When it comes to the cost of obtaining materials that this, among other things, is planned to spend 64 million KM, we think that this is a very high growth of these planned funds and that this should be reduced in any case and this amount of funds should be channelled into far more important and significant items. I would agree with those assessments of all those who, among other things, have pointed to one approach that is inappropriate by budgetary users who do not take account of the facts that I only mentioned at the outset, should, among other things, be pointed out by the Ministry of Defence, which both the other ministries and other agencies were planning to increase expenditure. Among other things, this 21 million KM is indeed something that is, not only too much going on, but also from the fact that there are 22.367 employees in BiH, and when it comes to 2014 it is practically 22.543 which is more for 176 new workers. This is simply the state of the economy that can't handle this kind of relationship between these agencies, ministries and so forth. I think there is a need and that we should definitely analyse the work of each of the agencies individually, determine the real justification not only of its existence but of what it, in terms of functional terms, provides for BiH, and apropo this, go towards making a budget to simply realistically plan the budget itself. As far as the cost justification is concerned, I only think that the eligible costs provided for the Election Commission are, because conditions are being created practically for the conduct of the elections, all other costs planned within the draft budget itself, I don't think they're realistic enough. All in all, and this assessment that Belkić has presented, and I think that this kind of production of this document should really be shared by all of us, this one has increased to see this, this assessment that speaks of the Parliamentary Assembly where it is said – as a strategic goal is to improve the standard of living for the peoples and citizens of BiH and establish all necessary conditions for BiH's entry into the EU through effective and so on. and so on. and so on. Well, I'm not exactly convinced that this kind of strategic objective of the Parliamentary Assembly, here, refers to this position on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, that this kind of strategic goal is simply possible to find in this kind of document, and this is what Belkić noted well, and I want to point to this kind of anomaly. All in all, these are some of the elements that are not fully acceptable to us, and in particular in a very boastful way of budget users who do not respect the fact of the real sector, the conditions in local 63 communities that simply have serious problems in their functioning, and we would practically still have a completely one situation in which we will provide funds for the functioning of BiH institutions, however, both the past local communities and how they solved the problems they face, and especially the citizens themselves. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19206	Ambassador Zijad Jagodić's discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19207	Thank you. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the Parliament, I welcome you all together, I would like to address and express my views on the balance of expenditure and income that we have received in today's proposed budget material. What I can point out is that I agree with part of the speech of part of the predecessors, but what is particularly clear for us, and it is not possible for the public, it is very good for the people to know that capital expenditure in these documents is 14% lower and amounting to 63 million marks or 9 million less compared to 2013. The supply of material is 32% higher than in 2013 or by 20 million marks. However, the third part of the balance sheet of expenditure refers to current grants that are 81% higher or something for 8 million marks, were before 19 and 10 were 19.5, which suggests that precisely current grants are possible because of 2014 those who fear whether the elections will be postponed, I think that they will not be used for sure and will be used to prepare voters. When it comes to income balances, the incomes of the Administration of indirect taxation are practically 10% or equal to 750 million KM. I would like to point out that it is probably not, or possibly not, that I have not heard that someone has said, that practically taxes from the Administration of indirect taxation in the past period were, or in 2013, 5 billion and 700, and according to the concept and example in this Budget are 4 billion and 400 or 750 million marks. And what's about if we look at it, we can say that the current, current executive government doesn't intend to practice or maintain an existing production and revenue course at the country's level, that's what this data says. However, when it comes to the structure of income itself, especially the people should know that the budget is foreseen through special fees and fees 53% of the revenue increase, so the people will be burdened with various increases in the cyan taxi and so on. In the case of personal documents and registration plates, motor vehicles are 229% higher, practically higher revenues compared to 2013. Is that a good sign that the existing government wants to help the people in such difficult conditions? I think this says enough what it wants. It used to be 23 million and 400, and now 53 million and 600 KM. However, with the Central Bank's revenues, look, the revenues are down 56% instead of 18 million is intended to raise 10 million, and we are witnessing that 28 banks in BiH only make profits from 170 million marks. I think it's an ideal, fantastic example of this country's banks getting a certain portion of the revenue they could, but we know that practically banks are using all possible incomes, all possible variants that _____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19208	poslanik Jagodić has his word, just keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19209	Please, 64 ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] When it comes to spending, here we can say for the Security Forces, the predecessors who commented pointed out that it is practical for the Armed Forces or the Security Forces in BiH to over-separate the funds, I would indeed agree with that if we observe ministers with which cars they drive. But on the other hand, when we look at that police who don't have any fuel, I often see on the road, they don't even have anything bright in their office, and... I don't think they have any for Niva Lada to buy. However, ministers feel extremely good, cars are on the level and I think it's very bad, this sector needs help. Knowing that in the Ministry of Defence, it is practically missing and water in their facilities where they are staying, that there are no logistic basic elements for their normal work that I think that this sector should certainly be given more attention and so on. However, the current government or the Council of Ministers, if they wish to engage in the fight against crime and corruption, have noticed that, in the position of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the budget provides for 60% less funding, from 5 million to 500 million to 2 million 250. I think these are indicators that should be kept in mind if we want to leave the impression that we want to eliminate what we think is wrong. It's about the budget. But for our citizens, it is also very good to know, and above all, employees of BiH institutions who have about 22 000 data.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19211	Comrade Jagodić, just a second to warn everyone to try to listen to you, I deliberately let these six minutes go to see, however precisely the biggest...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19212	Just give me a minute, I'll be done with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19213	You'll have your business hours, but exactly the biggest experts on respecting the Rules of Procedure all the time talking as you speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19214	When it comes to salaries, the average salaries in 2009 to 2013 are very important that employees in state institutions are damaged by more than 22% when we are looking right this year. So, two to two and a half salaries each employee stays short. Is that a wish with this Budget to move on? When it comes to consumer baskets, see only 2009 to 2013 from 531 marks we have come to 1,800 and that says enough whether this Budget should be accepted as it is. In RS, the difference is even bigger or 350 times the difference in the consumer basket during the observed period. When it comes to inflation, it also suggests that average inflation is no matter what we say we're tied to the Karen you're a board and so on. but not to say an ordinary citizen feels and this rate is practically 5.6% on an annual basis, i.e. 3.7 to 4.6 and in certain periods it was 7.4. These are 65 indicators that I think we should keep in mind, and I wouldn't want to say now how I'm going to define myself, but from these speeches you can assume that I'm going to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19215	Ambassador Slavko Jovičić's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19216	Since my colleague Jagodić was elected an MP, I have really respected him and used every moment to hang out, to exchange a few sentences. But you, your colleague Jagodić, are looking for salary increases in BiH institutions and you say the consumer basket, and you've got the RS 350 times more expensive on your mind. You know how many numbers are 350 times that now, well that's a lapus come on. As I misunderstood my dear colleague Sokolović, he was from my railway to Pazarić, when he mentioned those canaders, I first understood the Sanaders, so I had to consult that I did not turn out to be naive here, where am I from now on, but good canaders stand up – but what exactly canaders for Trebinje? Well, there won't be any fires in Trebinj. It's all active down there now. So, you can't argue with Jagodić to increase and keep salaries at the level of employees in BiH institutions, and judge and demand that the consumer basket is minimal everywhere, but it is not minimal, she is empty, colleague Jagodić, she has no consumer basket with 530 marks, and she is 1,800 marks. Who's gonna fill it? He can't go anywhere. You and I can go. Now you're saying why the people aren't familiar with this? So how will the people be familiar with this Budget when I am also acquainted two days ago, how will the people know. After all, when we have a difficult little situation, we say people. Well, the people are lucky he's not familiar with this, or he'd give me a lecture and give me a lecture last night after that show about those pastures, and I don't know any knocks on the roads, so he'd give me care for the people, and that's what I need. That is why I support my colleague Jagodiću, but you must be principled, you must not ask for an increase in salaries for BiH institutions, and to fight for the interests of people who have nothing, we cannot reduce both of these and these institutions are too unnecessary, as someone said earlier that he could abolish there for concessions. Ma, I asked a parliamentary question, waiting for an answer from the Council of Ministers and colleagues Bevanda promised that all institutions that are unnecessary at BiH level will be abolished, which the institution that does not send the report, we adopted the seventh minutes at the 8th session, on the 7th we adopted the report from the sixth, on the sixth we could not adopt with the fifth because there was no quorum and so on. I need an institution like that. This should be punished by who founded that institution, first me if I voted, should be checked in the document, then abolished by those institutions. And then there'll be money for this basket and for the consumer baskets and for the Russian to take it somewhere up the mountain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19217	Now we have a replica of Jagodić Jovičić, and I believe that this will make a qualitative contribution to this discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19218	...it's the most awkward thing for me to do, but I have to say to Slavuj colleagues that he often causes such comedy in public that sometimes a man would laugh, sometimes he wouldn't believe that from his visions you can hear, once he says that he's against, and 66 people don't know what he is anymore. However, in any of my speeches from this data, I have not pointed out that we need and regret the increase, we are asking that it be maintained if it can be increased, but not increased by parliamentarians. And at the end of Parliament's pay, that's what the people should know, but I expect you from your position to say 2.500,000 marks this Parliament is using for these MPs. You come out and say that, if that's the means, we have agencies that use 10 million, 15 and they don't hear, come out clearly and say it. However, for all the weaknesses in the country, first of all in economic terms, we had colleagues who said that we should study exports, studies, we have, that production of domestic, infrastructure of ours would build and reduce this substitution of imports, we were then happy, and our studies and economies that have been done in these areas for the past 10 years have not given us any effect, unfortunately you over the past three years have to admit that practically nothing has been done for the people to feel something better and at least admit half of it is forgiven to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19219	Jagodić finished his second line, Slavko Jovičić has another line to Mr. Jagodić, and the third line will probably have a TV show because they no longer have rights here.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19220	They don't call me on TV at least as often as they used to, but good. So that you would not be left or right, as Jagodić says, and that you would not be dealing with comedy and being a comedian, I declare to you that at this time, what time is it, well 16:05 I will do nothing for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19221	Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić has a discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19222	Did you end up chairing these mutual dialogues of yours or is that according to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19223	You however you wish, Mr. Jurišić, but your 22 seconds are up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19224	Okay, well, listening to all these discussions and not taking part in the beginning when it comes to the budget of the BiH institutions, I'm staying a little distracted, not to say confused, not knowing who the opposition is here and who the opposition is. At one point, I hear that this budget, right, is subjective then that it was proposed by the opposition, it is clear to us that, under the Constitution of BiH, the BiH Presidency that it proposes to the BiH Parliament means a draft or a proposal for a Budget. It is also clear to all of us that the Ministry of Finance of the Council of Ministers is proposing the budget to the Council of Ministers, and that when the Council of Ministers adopts all of this, they take it or send it to the Courier's Office in the BiH Presidency, and the BiH presidency, for the sake of order, make one decision with two amendments, something so that they have looked at it, that they have done something, whether, neither they have the capacity, nor the strength, nor the time to enter into this kind of document, in order to analyse it. We must not be hypocrites or Pharisees, so this budget has been proposed by the Council of Ministers or by the Council of Ministers to this Parliament indirectly through the Presidency, because the BiH Presidency is that, if it felt right to propose then it would probably sit here. But here's because these days are very current, so the way in the future of election and election of members of the Bureau, and some say that if they were to be chosen indirectly so that they wouldn't have powers, and among other things, the proposal of the Budget, they'd be better off canceling it for themselves, 67 is whether, because we're talking about them here and they're not guilty or obliged of this. So this is the Council of Ministers' document, and here's the finance minister, let's say he worked on this, and his colleagues who suggested, I say, through the Presidency who came here on our benches. So we have to remain very, very clear here, when it says, some criticise it, some praise it, it is very clear if you have a budget of 950 million plus the obligation of BiH, but 950 million of the current budget and if there is, I don't know, 839 million, if these are current expenditures of gross wages, fees and other, everything is clear to you. So whoever had any understanding, who had the practicals, who had the touch with the money, you realize that this is the budget in the right sense of the word, is, in some way, social to maintain the existing state as it is. Who will eventually make some shifts, who will make changes in the budget in a way that raises more funds, more resources to isolate means for capital investments, because only through capital investments can they feel something of BiH citizens, something for good. If we say that 539 million marks are salaries and fees to employees in BiH institutions, and we say that, that the travel cost is 114 million marks, and after more phones, again some travel expenses, rented space, that it is 739 million of these, we are not going to keep a thousand, two jobs in BiH, and even through this consumable material will already sell to someone, neither do I, nor work in any institution where this... So no capital investments, no progress, no progress, and unfortunately these capital investments, what you see, they're very small. One of the colleagues spoke here, and we often mention it in the debates when we analyse reports on the implementation of the budget or the audit report on the impact of BiH institutions, so it is said that every time we give very much money to rent a space of 27 million darkness and so on. I say that it is our own personal none of us here, nor from the BiH Council of Ministers would rent so many years of space and give money, but would either be in debt or would invest, is it, so that we have our own space, and not at all. I have had opportunities, like all of you, to be in our embassies or our residences in various destinations across Europe, less, to pay there whether rents, rents of 4 thousand euros per month, five thousand and so on. Where these ambassadors of ours are somehow fighting to kill that price, instead of whether, instead of buying those places at least in those destinations with which we have good and diplomatic and economic, trade and exchange and goods and information, and unfortunately, here we are paying a lot for these leases. What is it, often a colleague Belkić would say at the start of the budget, I want to see the government's work programme, so here's if the government had a programme or the Council of Ministers, if it had a programme then we would know about and what the budget of these institutions might look like, so we would see that there is a strategic, strategic agreement between the ruling or the opposition, to reduce the number of employees in BiH institutions in some subsequent time. Well, the military, well, it's a shame that the state, that we don't know either one, helicopters or tractor to shut down some... it's a shame for a country. And I've been thinking down there about gathering a few of us, let's just feel like we have, so we can buy that, buy it for the people, not that the state of BiH or that we're looking for, and I don't know how much permission we get from somewhere to put out the fire. I remember the lake in Neretva I watched it come to me, the helicopter the big one from Turkey, waiting up around Mostar all, four days waiting for that helicopter from Turkey. Well, I wouldn't have if I didn't know her either, jumbo jet and stuff. Therefore, we need to know exactly what BiH needs, I am opinions and beliefs that 20 thousand and some employees are too much for BiH, but that all of these security services and the military and the border police must be at one level, but we here have spoken to colleague Jagodić, our actions and ours at some, in some of our luxurious spending positions, not only at BiH level, we cannot look at just this, all BiH and entities are BiH and cantons and countys and municipalities. Because here it was, a colleague said, they don't have, it's not true that they don't have, our 68 border guards, our security officers or any of them, did they, uh, have a hot meal, unfortunately, 6 KM. Unlike public companies, unlike public companies in which our colleagues also manage, it is from the same political parties whether they have 18 marks for a warm meal there. Who here is being discriminated against? All public administration, is it, so you have an institution, not a small number, not a small number, at the head of the people of the SDA, I don't know at the head of the people of the SDP who have 380 marks of a monthly warm meal. And here these our... sit down, not to say, those on the field they have barely those six which is missing. Therefore, there cannot be someone employed in BiH institutions to be paid and to expect him to be, to work well. I'm saying, I'm not sure, and I think that this work done by the BiH institutions can be done much better, but with a small number of employees, and that these employees will be highly rewarded for their work and then they will certainly do better, but that should be a strategy. So, we have to bring in the program and strategy, when we talk about over-consumption on phones, in spaces, in cars, whether, and we have to, someone said last time bring in, the standard is ours, the chairman of the Council of Ministers drives, I don't know, Audi A8, the minister drives A6 or in that class I don't know, the other Scots, the third one doesn't drive anything and so on. and so on. So we have to bring it in, so it'll be a lot easier for us to talk about this budget. Here in any case, given that entities, that entities have passed the budgets, that there is a contract with the IMF, unfortunately BiH is in the immediate position that it can't function without the IMF, but if it were much better managed, if public institutions were not social institutions to take care of certain people, here's a second one, is it even if I didn't say partyly then a lot could be done in BiH. And I'm saying, this budget no matter how good it is, but I think we're in such a situation that we should support it both because of these entity budgets and yes. Here we had before that and the agenda point where you... or some of you said,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19225	A fellow Jurišić, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19226	Here's only 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19227	You said a second.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19228	So whether or not the amendments to the Law on this, about the electrical transmission is whether, no one was against it, it was just whether it was necessary or necessary, I don't know, in seven days or five.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19229	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19230	But here's if it's going to be for good, it needs to be supported, and it needs to be supported by the budget, so that the citizens of BiH start breathing a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19231	Thank you. I will ask Commissioner Babalja not to draw attention to the honourable ministers. The word has the finance minister and BiH Deputy Prime Minister Niko Špirić. Here you go. This was a small lax paper, so we need to speak to BiH institutions, not to the Community institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19232	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs, distinguished ministers, respected guests, would agree with the end itself, especially with the very end of counterpart Jurišić, his presentation, should do everything to make this country better. No, we all know what the situation is, but I have a feeling that people who don't live in BiH see it much better than we who live in it and who are discussing the situation inside BiH. This is the Budget which was proposed by the Presidency as a constitutional proposal and for these reasons that I would not speak to the amendment phases, but they were made, rooted changes to the budget that the Council of Ministers forwarded to the Presidency and, of course, the Presidency under the Constitution has the right to do so. So it has made over 80 amendments to the budget submitted by the Council of Ministers to the Presidency. It is your right as Parliament through the amendment phase to adopt the budget as you think it is best for BiH. But for the sake of truth, I must say, this year will be a record year after collecting revenue from indirect taxes. So, I hear lately there's been a story of a drop in income collection, gross income and so on. Recorded since the establishment of the Administration, in all countries, income from indirect taxes has been falling, rising, and the return of indirect taxes, which is a sign that some activity is taking place within the country, that highways are being built and that they are creating a feedback effect on the country's growth rate. You have assessments of international institutions that say that the countries of Southeast Europe, what we think is the worst that remains outside Europe, notes, only records the rate of growth. Well, I guess we've heard about that grade, too. But it is our turn to talk more promotionally with all the weaknesses we have in BiH. This is the time when for the first time since Dejton we have the highest rate of export coverage on imports. Let's talk about something that's good, so don't hide all the weaknesses. Furthermore, when it comes to duty, so you have a report from international financial institutions, so the participation of external debt in the gross social product consolidated... at this point is 42%, the projection is that in 2014 it is below 40%. We don't want the IMF's debt slave class, because they don't give long-term loans for two or three years and ask for it to come back to them, but that means implementing reforms within the country. And so, I just called in for a reason to bring out something that's good and something that's promotional and it's not all so black and let's make it even better. When the Budget is in the amendment phase, then I will talk about the amendments that concern what the Council of Ministers has proposed, and I hope that the Presidency will defend the draft budget that it has submitted. Thank you all, of course I have nothing against any discussion, I think the full debate was in the best interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19233	I thank the Honorable Minister. I'm closing the debate and I'm informing you that the College has decided to take a 60-minute break, the vote is at 17:20. 70 [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please take your seats, we approach the vote. So, just one note, we'll vote on both the first and second points of the agenda, and then don't get up immediately, since we need to let you know what the College decided when the second reading is about the budget. _________(?) If it passes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19236	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19237	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19238	... if an emergency procedure goes through, I suggest you vote first on the procedure, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19239	I thank you for this proposal and for,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19240	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-12-0.u19241	First, then, we vote on an emergency procedure request. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority – 21 for, 18 against, 0 abstentions, that the emergency request is accepted in the House of Representatives. Now we're opening a debate on the law, since the crack is done, I find there are no reports of discussion and I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote on the law, the bill's proposal, therefore, on amendments to the Law establishing the Electricity Transfer Company in BiH. 71 Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority -- 21 for, 15 against, 3 abstentions. I find that the House of Representatives has adopted this bill. Now, _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] At the request of the SBB Club, please repeat the vote. Vote now. Just a little attention while we vote. I find again that we have the necessary and general and entity majority – 21 for, 18 against, 0 abstentions, so predstavnički House of Representatives adopted this bill. We are now voting on the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2014, Proposer: BiH Presidency. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. A little attention, I realize that we have the necessary and general and entity majority – 23 for, 14 against, 2 abstentions. The House of Representatives, therefore, adopted the Budget proposal in the first reading. I hereby conclude the 59th session of the House of Representatives and note that the College has decided that the next session, and that you too are planning, will be held on 16 December on Monday, and the amendments can be delivered by 10:00 Monday, we are in accordance with Article 128. The Rules of Procedure decided to cut deadlines. And the House session will probably start at 12:00, so the commission also has a chance to determine its part of the job. Thank you again for your cooperation and thank you. Session completed at 5:35 p.m.
