ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15366	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored present, honored guests, I invite you all to take your seats. Today we will continue to work on the 49th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives, which was suspended on 06 June 2013. Our regular guests were invited to continue this session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly monitor the work of our House and media representatives. Also at the session, as did last time, representatives of institutions whose work reports on the agenda for today's session were invited. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from this session was justified by MP Lazar Prodanović, and a short delay was announced by counterpart Božo Ljubić. According to the information service, the session is present at the moment of 32 MPs in the House of Representatives. I find that there is a quorum for work and decision-making to continue the 49th session of the House of Representatives. I recall that the debate on the agenda of the 49th session was concluded and that on June 06, following the conclusion of the debate, the extended College of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives was called to agree on issues discussed during the debate on the agenda. I would like to inform you that the College of the House of Representatives, in the extended composition of the 49th session of the College, held unanimously from both parties to the position and opposition, adopted the following conclusions, I think they were delivered, but I will read them again. 1. The 49th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives will be held on Monday 08.07.2013 starting at 10 pm. 2. The authorised promoters of the two draft laws amending and supplementing the Single Parent Code shall be obliged to withdraw the draft laws which they delivered on 06.06.2013. It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to forward, as soon as possible, a draft law amending and supplementing the Single Parent Code. 3. The agenda of the 49th session of the House of Representatives was completed in point 3. Discussing information on the security of work in BiH institutions submitted for the protest held between 05 and 07/06/2013. 2 4. The request of the SDP and SBB MPs to consider the Law's proposal on the availability of immovable military assets by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, take it off order 49. Sessions of the House of Representatives scheduled for 08 July 2013 and will be discussed at the next meeting of the House of Representatives scheduled for 18 July 2013. 5. The College of the House of Representatives in an extended composition found that the debate on the agenda of the 49th session of the House of Representatives was concluded. It is up to the House of Representatives to inform MPs of the conclusions adopted at the 49th session of the House of Representatives in an extended position and to read the agenda of the 49th session of the House of Representatives. Six. With the aim of more effective work of the 49th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, the College of the Representatives of the House of Representatives in the extended composition has unanimously concluded that within the 2nd session of the Parliament's questions (a) Comments on answers received and (b) New parliamentary issues, that all prepared issues and initiatives are delivered in written form without oral explanations. Therefore, given that the debate on the agenda has been concluded and that the Extended College has unanimously resolved the open issues that were on the agenda in the agenda, I will now read the agenda of today's session. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 48th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Legislative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. Discussing information on the security of work in BiH institutions submitted for the protest held from 05th to 07th of July 2013; 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-25/13, of 29.05.2013; 5. The request of Parliament of Nermine Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Well-being of Animals under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-26/13, of 05.06.13.; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures – Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-21/13, of 14.05.2013. (first reading); 7. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters; 8. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Coordination of the Broba Anti-Corruption; 9. Report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2012, material number: 01,02-50-19-327/13, of 14.03.2013; 3 10. The annual report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2012, issue 01-50-19-442/13, of 03.04.2013, and the Financial Reports of the Central Bank of BiH for 2012, issue 01-16-1-441/13, of 03.04.2013; 11. Report on the work of the BiH Appeal Office in 2012, issue: 01,02-50-19-487/13, of 11.04.2013; 12. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for crimes provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012, issue 01,02-37-469/13, of 08.04.2013; 13. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2012, material of the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-502/13, dated 16/04.2013; 14. Report on the implementation of the laws of the Central Election Commission of BiH in 2012, issue: 01,02-07-514/13, dated 19.04.2013; 15. Report on the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012, material of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, issue: 01.02-37-580/13, dated 17.05.2013; 16. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2012, issue: 01-09-495/13, dated 15.04.2013. (scheduled debate at the 48th session of the House, held on 23.05.2013); 17. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission on both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for Draft Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH and the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-14-306-5/13, of 04.06.2012; 18. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on a motion for a resolution on the condemnation of the crime genocide in Srebrenica – Proposers: MEPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić, issue: 01-02-2-419/13 since 29.03.2013; 19. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on MP Denis Bećirović's initiative from the 46th session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.03.2013, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH'), No. 33/06, 41/06, 81/06, 91/06, 91/07, 87/09 and 28/12), I submit the following parliamentary initiative, which is tasked with the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver the draft law on the diaspora of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the end of 2013’; The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Zijad Jagodić's initiative from the 43rd session of the House of Representatives held on 28.02.2013, which reads: "I submit an initiative that would allow citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to fully monitor the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives' Sessions through the state-run TV broadcaster starting from 01.03.2013; 21. The Commission's report on the annual report on the results of the Ćemalović Nermine Institution's Human Rights Institution and the Annual Report on Discrimination in BiH for 2012, which reads: "It is up to the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to establish a central database for the acts of discrimination committed, and as set out in Article 8. Law prohibiting discrimination in BiH; 4 22. The Commission's report on the annual report on the results of the BiH Ombudsman's activities and the Annual Report on Discrimination of Discrimination in BiH 2012 on the Annual Report on the 2012 Annual Report on the Šepić Report on the Annual Report on the Results of the Human Rights Institution of BiH and the Annual Report on Discrimination of Discrimination in BiH, which reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives obliges the Council of Ministers to make recommendations and a plan for reducing discrimination in the area of mobbing and education within 90 days, bearing in mind the Annual Report on the occurrences of discrimination in BiH for 2012 in which the trend of increasing the number of complaints in these categories of rights is observed." 23. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Milorad Živković to discuss information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's memos, which reads: "The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is asking the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH to establish in writing according to the correspondence led by the Prosecutor-in-Office to the PSBiH's House of Representatives, and in relation to the non-implementation of the Constitutional Court decisions in cases U-3/11 and U-4/11.’; The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Niko Lozančić to discuss the BiH Prosecutor's Office's memos, which reads: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives considers it unacceptable and unacceptable to co-response the BiH Prosecutor's Office towards the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in particular in its letter number: T 20 0 KTA 0006553 12, of 03.04.2013, BS/DT and asks the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH to consider this issue and to be determined according to the conduct of the handling prosecutor’; 25. Proposal for a conclusion on the appointment of members of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to identify possible irregularities and abuses and conditions in the Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH – Proposers: Members of the SNSD Club; 26. Retification of the two-year co-operation agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Regional Office of the World Health Organisation for Europe for 2012-2013, issue: 01,02-05-2-586/13, of 20.05.2013; 27. Granting consent to the retrieval of the EC IPA Part 1 Grant Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as administrator of the European Commission for Trust Fund for the Pre-accession Instrument of the European Union, No 01,02-05-2-584/13, of 20.05.2013; 28. Giving consent to the retrieval of the Additional Funding Agreement 2 to the Finance Agreement and the project of 12.10.2009 between KfW, Frankfurt in May, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH (primac), as well as Republika Srpska, represented by the Ministry of Finance of the RS, and the City of Banja Luka (the Agency for the Implementation of the Project), amounting to 1,470,000 euros – City Water and sewerage system in Banja Luka, Component 1 – Water Supply and Component 2 – Channel systems (project), No: 01,02-05-2-582/13, of 20.05.2013; 29. The first amendment to the Agreement relating to the Loan Agreement, concluded on 27.12.2010, to finance and extend the sewerage system in Gradišca between Bosnia and Herzegovina, representing the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH, and United Credit Bank Austria AG, No 01.02-05-2-585/13, of 20.05.2013; 30. Giving consent to the retrieval of Amendment No. 2 to the Finance Treaty concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank in Sarajevo and 28.12.2005 in Luxembourg, with subsequent changes – financing of the Railway II project (FINO 23.376), number: 01,02-05-2-587/13, dated 20.05.2013. 5 So we move to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 28th session of the House of Representatives You got a record from the 48th House of Representatives session. Is anyone answering for a word? On the note, on the occasion of the 48th session, MP Beriz Belkić reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15368	Well, here, very briefly, for documentation. Therefore, on page 15, where the vote on the proposal for the conclusion of Niko Lozančić was discussed, it was established how much he received the votes for, against, etc., but it was not found that the proposal for a conclusion did not get an entity majority and that it would go to an agreement. We're having it at a consensus today, and I think that finding should necessarily be entered for documentation.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15369	Thank you. I find that there are no more applications under the first item of the agenda, and I will ask professional services to include this intervention of MEP Belkić in the minutes. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Parliamentary Issues (a) Comments on Answers received (b) New Parliamentary Issues So we have the position of the Extended College that today all those who wish to ask parliamentary questions and parliamentary initiatives if they have prepared this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to deliver here to professional services, and we will leave comments on answers and oral explanations for the next session. With this, we're closing the second item of the agenda. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Discussing information on the security of work in BiH institutions submitted for the protest held between 05 and 07/06/2013.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15372	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members, members of the Council of Ministers and other distinguished guests. Well, since we're meeting for the remainder of this session today and we haven't been sitting down, it's time to say something about why we didn't sit down. And I'm surprised there's no more reporting since we have organizers of all these events and this other side I assume that some of them find themselves in the organizers so they don't need to come forward with us who want to enlighten this situation, what is our intention today. To what extent we will succeed from then on. I want to point out once again that what we're doing today and what we've been talking about in the last few days, let no one bring about the right of people to demonstrate, with the right of people to gather, with the right of people to publicly express their shallow and any other will, even in a technical sense, that doesn't bring it in if we use some terms because it doesn't have anything to do with it. People protested earlier days, months, years and protests will certainly and in the coming period in accordance with, until that day, it was most often in accordance with the law, in the places envisaged for it and there was never a problem here. The problems arose that day, that night. I can't understand all these reports, that they didn't take into account the fact that a joint institution building was blocked, that 1,500 people couldn't get out, that difficult terms were used -- evacuation. If the evacuation is due to the flood, you can't prevent the flood, and no one can answer for the flood, the weather, the fires. But the big forces were used to evacuate because on the other hand they stood the forces that created the blockade. And that's to say, if we're going to declare today that the blockade is an act, then we don't have a problem. The moment we put it into law, then we won't discuss it because it's probably because, by many things, we're unique in the world and we'd be unique in that it's allowed to destroy state institutions, that it's allowed to beat up civil servants, that it's allowed to limit the freedom of movement of individuals, I deliberately not 7 mention MPs, but here are officials, ministers, officials, and, of course, why not MPs. What is devastating to this day is not a single application. I can understand that someone couldn't prevent it, I can figure out a delicate moment that day or that night, but until today, it's been a long time to silence the beating of civil servants in front of the cameras, and all those threats that have been made. Despite the threats of the consequences that have taken place – a month's unhappiness of Parliament and all that has happened. How is it possible that institutions implementing justice and law in all other cases will act without doing so? How will an ordinary citizen who today, and many today, and tomorrow, under the influence of the law, react to the fact that there are no laws here and to promote lawlessness, and that this is allowed because some kind of centre of power that we are not going to talk about today is behind it? It's impossible for such difficult qualifications to be said in these reports without criminal charges being filed, that no culprits were identified for what was going on, or this comes down to the level of some petty incident at some party that could be ignored and not. It is impossible not to talk about the damage to Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to blocking officials from foreign states and those at a very important rally. Every day, there are damages in some municipalities and everywhere because of the individual's actions, but it's very interesting to keep quiet about this. Are we in agreement that BiH did not have any damage to what happened that night, when I talk about these people, about these guests, and whether it is the same, the second day fixed. I would also like to hear that if it was fixed and that no one resents us, and that no one is surprised to us, and that there is no problem, then I too will withdraw my assessment that I think it was disastrous, only in that segment, in BiH. The institutions involved in law enforcement and law enforcement are clearly silent, and it is obvious that you are still silent today. I guess there'll be a request tomorrow for an increase in financial resources and everything else for enlargement. What kind of expansion? And that rare opportunity they had showed how they worked and how, not getting in now or who was what and in what way they should have done it. That's why I liked to see more reports, state institutions more reports, oral explanations, what it is that's still done in the meantime without us knowing what it is that's currently done and what it's meant to do in some future period. Or, if none of what I've said is true and that no one else thinks about doing anything, it's a sign that surgery can be repeated, it's a sign that we're legalizing this situation today and that we're letting everyone know that they're free to do something like that again. I don't want to talk about the details because they talked about other people who weren't there and gave grades, we saw it with our own eyes, and there's no need to emphasize all that. And I repeat, those who wanted to get to know each other could have been aware that inside the incident there were physical accounts about which everyone was silent, that it was in front of the building and that it was legalized, and that it was allowed in the highest institution in the country, as we claim. If after today's debate she stays the highest I don't know, she should, but here we are. I would like to hear some answers and I would like to hear some reactions from those who are persistently silent, from those who have been chosen by this Parliament but think it is only the problem of this Parliament or this group of people who found themselves in Parliament that night. It's not like that. We were in Parliament that night, but we gave someone else the authority and the means to take care of this Parliament, and to take care of all other institutions and to take care of all the citizens of this country in the system. If the other citizens will be cared for as much as the officials of this building did that night, if all the mothers who work and in this building found their children in the parks at three hours of the night, then let them serve it honorably, because it has nothing to do with the justified rights of the people who seek to protest, have 8 rights to their demands and in some ways direct them towards institutions that can resolve their questions and answer their questions. It's completely peripheral how these people are, their rights are legitimate, whether they're thousands, two, five or ten, but this other had nothing to do with them, I'm even convinced that they didn't even know about it or had any intention of complicity. It's very interesting to keep quiet about this other person, but everyone doesn't like to justify that the mothers for the children were right. And we claim that mothers were right about children, but it is not the will of mothers with children to beat up people, they have nothing to do with it. And don't be reluctant to cover your feelings by calling on their demands. Those of you who remain silent, I'm afraid they'll have to talk about some other questions in the next period, and we'll remind them of this question, to remind them immediately. Those who are silent, who, in the coming days, send all the power of law and justice to some citizen who is justified under this treatment, will have our vote that it is not justice in this country for all, that some powermaker out of the background creates justice in this country, and that everyone sees it, that it is selective and that where, not the institutions of this state, but the centres of power that govern this state, they decide when that justice will be applied, to whom. Some can be shot when they say it and some are protected for twenty years, like those bears, and nothing can be applied to them. Finishes, I expect the participation of some individuals I'd like to see, I'd like to hear why some of them changed their mind overnight, I'd like to hear why some of them suddenly shut up and were loud the first days. I'd like to hear all that. They may have reasons, so I might agree with those reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15373	I thank my colleague Kalabić for fitting in on his business schedule. The word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15374	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I thought that this side would be full of requests for discussion and that the number of colleagues who wanted to say that what happened really had nothing to do with them, that it would be so much that we from the RS would have to fight hard to get word at all. But here, it can never deny us the situation in this institution and at all in BiH's joint institutions, so it also paints a real picture of the situation. The protests ended the same way as under command they started under command and ended. We all sum up the results. It's amazing that those who organized all of this had the illusion that they would actually be able to act from what they did. That's amazing, then. People with a lot of political experience have shown that they have absolutely no political hearing to assess such events. The crowd never brought change, they forgot it, so they couldn't, they couldn't bring it, they couldn't bring it this time either. However, there is something that is good and a folk proverb that says “not snow to cover the hill but to show the trail, ” depicted the condition of the event. Everyone left a mark. It's amazing that this trail is such that we can easily go with it. 9 a few words about these clues. The first thing that impresses is the use of symbols at protests. Advocating the former Republic of BiH has made it clear what the organiser's aspirations and desires are. So it's purely political messages that have nothing to do with a single parent number. The second thing, the requirement to change constitutional arrangements and use children for this purpose made protests completely pointless. It is amazing that the Ombudsman has not said a word about it in any way, but it is also an experience that we should discuss when the Ombudsman's report comes to this place here. The protest turned into a one-national gathering of Bosniak people who needed protests to extort solutions that cannot by legal political means. That should be clear now. The Bošnjak political parties, not a single party, put an end to the break. She didn't have to put an end to it, she didn't have to take a break, she had to put a stop to the event that was supposed to force everyone to make a decision. Someone said well, I read some good text that says – it turned everything into a Bosniak fantasy on the street where citizens were statisticians and ended up being collateral damage. That's true. What's the surprise now? The fact that the customers behind the scenes couldn't assume all this, this way of happening, and that, especially that such a law, as they dreamt of, the Single Parent Number Act could never be accepted, so whatever methods they used and used. Protests have shown that the border between the NGO sector and political parties has completely disappeared. So the NGO sector, which pays most often for foreign organisations, has become the absolute function of the protest. They're the ones who follow our work, turn our work around, and they don't have any democratic legitimacy. Where did they get the right, they didn't participate in the election? They speak of us as much as they are commanded by their commander. We had the opportunity to see how they behave in this case and our famous Centre of Civil Initiatives, but certainly the coalition "1. March’. What are the lessons learned from the protest? The first lesson learned is that BiH has a completely inefficient and unregulated security system unprepared for all types of security challenges. I want to tell you that at the last session of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, where we only heard from the Director of the Directorate and the President of the Independent Committee to hear their thoughts on all of this, and the particular debate on the Report submitted by the Coordination Directorate, it has shown that the absolute failure of the security agencies in this situation has reminded many of this of the attack on the American Embassy that took place in a similar way. But I want to tell you that I am analyzing what a security sector at BiH level is doing, to tell you that there are nine security agents, police agencies, who employ more than 5,000 employees, who have a budget greater than 200 million marks, so the entire defence-security sector costs this country more than 500 million marks for a defence-security sector that serves nothing. What do we get for him, for that kind of money? And couldn't this country use it much better? The Police Body Coordination Directorate, which employs 830 people, has a budget of 31 million marks and the basic jurisdiction of the protection of persons and objects, has completely failed. That night I spoke, and the day before, with a director who wasn't at all in Sarajevo, his deputy wasn't in Sarajevo, so it's probably not an accident that these people weren't there. I spoke to the Minister of Security who also showed no interest in doing anything on that plan. So all those who were key did not react. I was wondering why SIPA didn't do anything. They told me that SIPA to do something has to get a warrant from the D.A.'s office. And we had the view of the cantonal prosecutor and prosecutor from the BiH Prosecutor's Office that this was not the case concerning the crime. So, two prosecutors say it's not a crime. Afterwards, it was clear to me that the chief prosecutor led the entire action along with his foreign partner and, of course, that he remained, 10 did not go to a seminar scheduled for Neum, but cancelled all that so that he could attend and lead Parliament's blockade. If the Coordination Directorate wanted to do something then her 42 officers who were at the moment, 05, could allow safe entrance from the garage and from the building. But those 42 people couldn't have been on the night between 06th and 07th, and then it took 265 people from the Directorate who went out into the field when the plan started, and the plan from the blockade started to be made in one hour at night. No security agency, or police agency, has an answer to that question, begins, I hope the Minister of Security will be able to say something on the subject. So, the special role in all this is in the Ministry of Security, SIPA, OSA, as well as the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which should be particularly absorbed. So why didn't SIPA react? What information was secure, and why didn't the intelligence agency notify who she needed or did, so it's said, leave them alone? So in a democratic country to build a blockade, Parliament would be asked later, because of the event, who hangs for it. In this country it becomes a normal thing. As normal as it is to not allow someone to express their political opinion freely, you think that by pressing pressure you will force them to change their political attitude. You underestimated us colleagues. Never, no matter what we do, it won't be enough to change our political attitude. That you know of the future when you prepare similar things. The task of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security is that, here I am finishing up, calling all security agencies, all police agencies and the Minister of Security, at the next session, to get information exactly what anyone was doing that night. On this basis, I propose that all the conclusions that are heard here, and together to be heard at the next session of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, be elements on which the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly will definitely decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15375	Thank you. Representative Zijad Jagodić applied for the replica, and I suggest that you listen to the debate for the prime minister and ministers, so that all of you who wish to get involved in the debate, even if you can go straight to the Rules of Procedure. From the replica, did he give up his colleague Jagodić?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15376	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15377	It better be, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15378	No, no. Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. I'd like to replicate a little with my dear colleague. I am pleased, with certain things, to agree with what she said, but 7 or 10 days at a session of the previous Parliament, when a single birth number was discussed, I also stood up and said that I agree with a large part of 11 proposals, and that was why even all of us were a common position to make up a proposal for a law on a single birth number that would be in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the laws. Unfortunately, then, or on the next one, or on that one, the colleague did not give that attitude, so I can see that even in this speech it is not behind the practical contribution of all these events. But let's let it go. I now as an MP, as a man who I worked in the economy, counting on a month that workers should get paid, that they should get contributions paid, that they have everything that is legally provided for by one responsible person in a legal person, that's what I did. Otherwise we expect a strike, we expect riots. However, at this moment when we had a practical blockade of Parliament it really surprised me, and this time I want to ask, here is to ask Mr Radončić, Minister of Security...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15379	Comrade Jagodić, please, you have reached out to the replica of Mrs. Majkić, do not now ask the Ministers in your replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15380	Okay, okay, thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15381	Thank you. The word has been sent by Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15382	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. The information we received about the events that took place in front of the BiH institutions on June 06th can be considered as one type of chronology of what happened and how it happened, which is no unknown, and that I did not ultimately expect it from the information but expected something else. And about what I expected, I'm going to talk about it now in my discussion. So, the events that took place on June 06th in front of the building, in front of BiH institutions from this time distance, and I mean, while it's very important time, and here this month that has passed, it might be a good thing what happened today is that we discuss it because time is an important factor and distance in observing and analysing certain things in life and so on. So, today, when we discuss and talk about what happened, it can be said that it is important for this event, so under number one – the organizer and organisation of the event and number two – the consequences and the damages that occurred afterwards. Before I begin to explain what I want to say in the discussion, I want to say that what is clear, visible and completely certain after these events on June 06th, is that all those who were organizers and who participated in the organisation of these meetings today can, I guess it's pretty clear to them, and I can be absolutely convinced that nothing can ever be done by force or pressure in this country again. This was confirmed by these demonstrations that were allegedly due to the adoption of the Code on 12 unique birth numbers, and all the public knows that several days before that session of the Council of Ministers decided on a temporary basis, but in a very good way, the problem of granting unique birth numbers to newborn babies was resolved. And that was not at all controversial either that day or the next 180 days to which the decision was addressed. And all those who protested and came to express their dissatisfaction, which, of course, I do not dispute that anyone in this country should come out publicly and express their dissatisfaction, but the way it is done is known. So it was not disputed that those who protested that their children couldn't get a home number. In the RS, they had already begun to get home numbers before because the RS government resolved it. What today should be preoccupation and the topic of thinking is that such gatherings and similar events, if someone is still dealing with the thought and thinks that, in some future period, perhaps in one way or another, they will try to solve some of the issues in BiH again, should know that, first of all, for such a set as it was, without being defined – who is the organizer, we know only from the means of information, from the media that these are some NGOs, without an announced gathering, so without a certain place where it will be held, therefore completely spontaneously gathering and bringing into danger and institutions, state institutions and people who have found themselves in it, today the question of responsibility must be asked who did so. We know that just a few days before that meeting there was also an organized protest of the union, so it was known who was the organiser, and the place where it was held, and the announcement of the rally, so it was all known about the rally unlike anything that knew nothing and unlike what the trade unions who were protesting then came with clear goals and clearly said what they were protesting, and this was a classic blow to the state institutions and, of course, to put the public officials of this country at risk, not to talk about putting foreign diplomats at risk and the uneasy situation they were in that day. And I am not going to elaborate at all now, and this is the theme for myself, which will be the result of the fact that these people have been imprisoned here and that they have survived, all that they have survived, I will just say what has been heard and what we have been able to read from the means of informing that more than 20 countries whose diplomats were present at that rally and who could not come out until four or five hours in the morning when we, so when some of BiH have apologized and said, we hope that the donor funds, which were approved that day, at that meeting of these foreign diplomats, will not be questionable, from these countries have answered and said – not to be questionable and that you will not receive donations but will receive lawsuits for the abuse and bringing into question the dignity of foreign citizens and foreign diplomats. Of course, it can be concluded, there is no need to explain at all, what a pity it is and what a minus on the foreign policy plan we have done and done to ourselves, or what we would say, give ourselves an auto goal. So, I don't want to talk about it. I want what I want to focus my story on, and what I've reported most for the discussion is a matter of responsibility. The question of responsibility for state officials, therefore who were both on that day and before that day and after that day, are on certain elected functions that they had failed to do anything, consciously, unconsciously, conducting themselves, I absolutely don't care. I'm only interested in the Federal Ministry of Security, that the police of Canton Sarajevo, that SIPA, that the D.A., and the Minister of Security, who is sitting in the Council of Ministers, have absolutely done nothing, have not contributed until the foreign embassies have settled through a high representative to demand that people be freed, particularly the foreigners, and then it was assumed that all those in the building would come out. 13 So, we were from the RS so much, to say, rigid and that we went to the end in this story, and not as we came to Parliament today, where it is and the place to discuss it, that we went to the end rigidly in this story we could say – until all the resignations are filed and all the directors of police agencies, the prosecutor, the minister of security, are sanctioned, I will not talk about the federal level because it is not jurisdiction, but those we vote and who we vote the budget here in this institution, until they put their responsibility on the agenda, we have nothing to talk about. What I have to talk about here and discuss now is what would have happened. Of course, the consequences must be considered. But when considering the consequences for these consequences, someone must be responsible and, of course, adequately sanctioned, if he failed and did not do the job he was supposed to do, and apparently not. And if we were here somewhere, here as they say in the information, somewhere the headquarters only met around 2:00, 3:00 a.m. to start operating on a plan of what to do and how to do. So what was it from 2:00 to 1:00 p.m.? Of course, it all implies that someone was conducting the situation and that there was a plan to put pressure on, to make noise, to get street demonstrations to get the law they wanted to win, and in all these demonstrations there were representatives, or Bosniaks. That was a Bosniak rally. And a few days before that, the same Bošnjak, therefore from the same nation, the ministers voted for the decision that was, which solved the problem that they allegedly came to protest and express their dissatisfaction. From today's distance, so at the present moment, what's most important is what is the prosecution doing right now? The agencies haven't done anything, the police agencies have done anything, as I've counted, but the question is, what is the prosecution doing now, and are we going to get information, so that those who did it down there unannounced, unorganized, have struck the state institutions, and state officials and officials, and foreign citizens, will the prosecution sanction, or will they file criminal charges against them? Everything says, from the media that we hear and what we see in reality and the public, that it won't happen. And then what are we supposed to talk about in this situation? What are we talking about, if the D.A. isn't doing his job, if the police agencies aren't doing their job, then what are we talking about? Then people are more honest and honest -- people see that this BiH, it lives on appliances, so it's a country on the edge. If this doesn't end in a quality and adequate way this story, these protests and this call information can only mean the beginning of the end of BiH, no matter how much it is for you now, and some have risen from the chair to what I say. This could mean the end of BiH. RS would certainly, and we are running away from that story that we understand each other immediately, you know that at the end of the day, and if we didn't tell you, the RS would certainly be more relaxed and more advanced and say there's more room to function and act on its own. But we, here from the RS, came today, so we didn't say – let's compare their resignations all here on the table on the agenda and then see where we are and what we are. We didn't say that, we came down here to talk, but you see, there are neither interested nor who thinks this question should be analysed at all, that we should deal with this problem, but by the system, we see this, by the system we tried what we tried, if it worked out well, when it didn't work out let's move on and we'll see how far and how. That's not how we from the RS are gonna do it. So, it can't be that way and it can be, but today this conclusion, the proposal proposed by my colleague Majkić that the Defence and Security Commission do its part of the job, I propose a conclusion on behalf of the SNSD Club that by the next session or until July 28th, when we will have the last session in July, so that information is asked of the BiH Prosecutor's Office what has been done about those who have acted illegally, illegally and contrary to the constitutional order of this country? 14 So it will be my conclusion, and that is what I end up with, and I hope that today you will all be determined about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15383	Thank you. MP Beriz Belkić signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15384	Here, I listened with respect and very carefully to the boredom of the discussion, but Mrs. Marković's discussion is of such a nature that man cannot keep his mouth shut. So, Mrs. Marković, if you have come to the BiH Parliament, although you have been building up but have done so, to say that this is the end of BiH, and that RS will relax, etc., continue to exist, I would like you to explain to me how you intend to do it? Do you forget the Dayton Agreement and how this structure was ever established, etc.? Did you need to say this here in the BiH Parliament – that this is the end of BiH? And don't be surprised someone's jumping off the chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15385	Replica, MP Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15386	Well, it's nice to hear that someone from the Federation is calling for the Dayton Peace Agreement. It is rarely heard in this House, but really when it is heard it is pleasant to listen, given that we from the RS are constantly the ones who are calling for the Dayton Peace Agreement. But you only call on the Dayton Accords when it starts to burn under your feet, then you start calling on the Dayton Peace Accords, and when we mention it and call on it... let's go, let's go, let's go, let's talk about it in the wind. So, I didn't say, Mr. Belkić, that this is the end, but I said that the inadequate and unskilled resolution of this problem, and these protests, and what is required of the security agencies, by the prosecution, and this means making quality conclusions to know whose responsibility is and what has been done in this story, in this situation. If it is not done, it will mean the end of BiH's beginning. I said so and listen a little better. You may have skipped listening to some of my parts, but that's what I said and you have to accept that it's reality. Do you really think that without someone else's responsibility and without knowing who's responsible, what's who doing that night and where's who's failed, we'll accept to say goodbye, let's move on. Well, we won't be safe.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15387	I will, of course, give each of the Rules of Procedure the right to replication, but I would call, if at all possible, to try to avoid replicas at one of these sensible points of the agenda and a sensitive political moment 15 in which Parliament and the country are located, and here, if possible, through discussions, to all express their views. The replica was reported by counterpart Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15388	Well, I'll be brief, so will I, I'll try to be sensual as you say. So, of course, the Dayton Agreement is mentioned and not as a Swedish table but as a basic document, and we have never questioned it from the Party for BiH. However, I've more come to guarantee that if I have a gorilla under my feet, they'll burn under your feet and do well. And be sure of the end of BiH, rather it will be the end of the RS than the end of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15389	Replica, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15390	A colleague, Belkić, often defends BiH, but sometimes he defends it unskillly, so he takes more advantage of it than he manages to defend it. Your fight, colleague Belkić, is to be more equal than the other two nations. And you are more equal than the other two people, because you left the building that day after a good lunch in the restaurant building. You and your colleague went out and left the building. The president of the SDA Club went in and out. SDP representatives took pictures, kissed protesters and listened to what they were looking for. So we want to be equal, not even more equal for yota. That's our request. So that's our request. And every time you talk about Dejton, you talk about the equality of three peoples. Because if you're not talking like that then you're just doing what you're doing that there's practically no commentary from the Federation, because you've all been to, how you're going to comment on these events. So please take care of yourself, don't just appear to be one people, it is the greatest but you can't be more equal.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15391	Replica, Ambassador Adnan Bašić. Are you giving up or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15392	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15393	He's giving up, thank you. The speaker of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda, applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15394	Honored members of the presidency, distinguished MPs, guests, dear friends. Here, I decided to call before the hearing was over. My presentation will be a clear statement of what was going on and what the Council of Ministers and I, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, was doing in all this. This will certainly serve you as a simple basis for assessing whether 16 I acted well and whether all the participants who participated in these meetings acted well. So today, on June 06, the situation was as it was, in my assessment, that I decided to send a letter to the Ministry of Interior Canton of Sarajevo, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of SIPA, the BiH Ministry of Security, the Police Coordination Directorate and the OSA Intelligence Agency. I must immediately say that I managed to secure the contact myself with the Minister of Security, Mr. Radončić, and the Director for the Coordination of Police Bodies who was ill, so he became involved in the work. I couldn't get these others, they didn't respond to the calls, and even the written memo I sent on June 06th, so the one when the day was... And since it is very short, this only part, will not be left, everything is quoted, but I have written a request for due action: Dears, In front of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building and the BiH-Greek Friendship Building, there is an ongoing protest of citizens who prevent the freedom of movement of those present in the above-mentioned facilities. I address you for the threat of persons, as well as for the reduction of the freedom of movement of representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, staff of the Council of Ministers, and of all employees in the building of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Building of Friendship of BiH and Greece. I ask you to undertake all activities in accordance with your responsibilities to remove this problem. Requesting immediate action. Respectfully, Vjekoslav Bevanda. I told you who responded orally, I didn't have a written response. On 12.06, I sent a letter to Mr. Himzo Selimović, director of the co-ordination of police bodies. The same letter was sent to Mr. Fahrudin Radončić. It said: In accordance with the legal provisions governing the rights and obligations of the Police Body Coordination Directorate, I reasonably expected to be informed in good time about the organisation of protests in front of and around the institution facility, and therefore about the activities you plan to carry out, in order to meet the obligations set out in the Constitution and the law. Under such circumstances, as you know, the work of BiH institutions has been paralyzed and the safety of employees has been multiplely compromised, and much damage has been done in several segments. Given the above and in order to put into office BiH institutions, in order to meet constitutional and legal obligations, and to create a prerequisite for the general security of all employees, and given that this has not been done so far, I demand that you provide me with information as soon as possible on the assessment of the security situation in BiH in all aspects. On the same day, I addressed the Intelligence Agency to Director Almir Džuv, where it was written: According to the legal provisions governing the rights and obligations of the OSA, especially in the part of the obligations to the Council of Ministers chairman, I reasonably expected that I would be timely informed, the parentheses, in principle, need to know about organising protests in front of and around the BiH institutions. With this in relation to the security assessment, the possibility... of obligations established by the Constitution and law, especially under the circumstances of the security of all employees in these institutions. Such circumstances, as you know, have paralysed the work of the institutions and have repeatedly threatened the safety of employees and caused great damage in several segments. 17 ________________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it's okay, it's okay. Then in 1706, the Department of Security, the Police Body Coordination submitted an answer and I immediately distributed it to the members... to your use so that I wouldn't go past it. In 21.06, as chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Dragan Lukač, Director and Federal Administration and Mr. Cosic, I sent a request for a written guarantee. At today's session of the Council of Ministers' College, chaired by Mr Bevanda, in the presence of Ministers, Mr Špirić and Mr Lagumdžija, Minister Radončić and the Director of all security agencies, it was concluded that a request was made for the Federal Police Administration, the Office of the Police of the Ministry of the Interior of Canton Sarajevo, within 24 hours, to issue written guarantees that they would take all defined measures to ensure all conditions for the smooth functioning of BiH institutions. In relation to the resulting conclusion, I request that you provide the guarantee letters for those needs within 24 hours. We received these letters in 22.06 and from one body and another and passed them on to the colleagues of Parliament. In 25.06, NOS held its session and reached conclusions. You're all familiar with them, they contain everything that's known. It's wanted, then, to be responsible for the failures that have been recorded. In particular, I would like to highlight the two meetings that were held in 21st06, it was the Security obavještajno Committee in an extended composition, where Mr. Lagumdžija, as a foreign member, and Mr. Špirić, attended Mr. Radončić in the first part. We also passed those conclusions on to the College, but I don't think it's too bad to read here because it's not too long. We have concluded that the BiH Ministry of Security in coordination with the relevant police agencies hastily made up a detailed plan of measures and activities to overcome perceived failures aimed at creating a safe environment for the normal conduct of all life and social activities in and around BiH institutions. That the Ministry of Security in coordination with the relevant police agencies hastily made up an assessment of the security situation from the aspect of future unannounced gatherings, in brackets, because it has become a practice, and possible implications, and thus guaranteeing that, within the capacity available, they can provide the Constitution and the law guarantee human rights and the smooth functioning of the system. The Executive Intelligence Committee proposes that the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly conduct a thorough investigation into the handling of persons responsible for the circumstances of past events, in accordance with the law, and that, based on the established factual situation, take action from their jurisdiction and report all this to the Council of Ministers of BiH. That the Police Authorities Coordination Directorate, in accordance with its powers, submit reports to BiH's competent prosecutors on the collected findings in connection with the protests held, with the aim of determining the possible existence of a criminal offence and criminal responsibility. 18 In the end, the Executive Intelligence Committee concluded that in order to create conditions for the functioning of BiH institutions, according to the Constitution and the law, a meeting of the Council of Ministers to discuss and analyse security policy in BiH, with a proposal for appropriate activities, and in order to ensure the smooth work of BiH institutions, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. We, since all these were adopted, held a meeting of the Council of Ministers. I'll be passing the memo on to the Council of Ministers. One particular conclusion we've made, so we can simply try to break the misinformation and all the bad that's going on with the problem of the single parent number. So we've instructed everyone, including the Parliamentary Assembly, on the 26th of June. It reads: A notification of the BiH Council of Ministers' conclusion. Council of Ministers at 54. The session, held on 26.06.2013, discussed and adopted the Information on the measures taken and activities of police officers of the BiH Police Body Coordination Directorate, as well as police officers of other police agencies in BiH, on the day of 05-07/2013, when unannounced protests were held by citizens. We adopted the conclusions of the Executive Intelligence Committee, which I just read, 25 to 01.06. and the conclusions of the Council of Ministers session extended with the Minister of Security and all directors of security agencies, with a proposal for programmes and labour dynamics. The Council of Ministers took note of the conclusions of the 32nd session of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of 24.06. The Council of Ministers notes that the Executive Intelligence Board, as well as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, has undertaken all necessary activities to obtain a report and an analysis of events in front of BiH institutions from 05th to 07th 2013, and to create assumptions for the smooth operation of BiH institutions as soon as possible. The Council of Ministers is aware and accepts the express guarantees of the Federal Police Administration, the Canton Police Administration, to ensure conditions for the smooth functioning of BiH institutions. The Council of Ministers concluded that assumptions were created for the work and maintenance of the Council of Ministers' meetings in the BiH institutions building, and activities continue at the appointment of council meetings of ministers and the implementation of programme tasks. The Council of Ministers would clear all the dilemmas and fog that was greatly over the issue of home numbers, by considering an analysis of the security situation in BiH and the conclusion of the 32nd session of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly, from 26 April to discuss the information on the measures taken and activities of police officers of the Police Coordination Directorate, as well as police officers of other police agencies in BiH, on the provision of facilities of BiH institutions on the date of 05th to 07th06 in connection with protests in front of the BiH institutions, concluded that the Council of Ministers had already twice established the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Single Parent Number and delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for adoption. That the Council of Ministers for failing to adopt these laws in the Parliamentary Assembly, on 05.06.2013, made a provisional decision on the establishment of registration areas for the determination of single birth numbers in BiH, which was allowed to issue unique birth numbers in the next 180 days in space of 19 throughout BiH. That they have issued the parent numbers by this decision of permanent character. The Council of Ministers calls on all authorities responsible for issuing a single birth number to apply the Interim Decision on the designation of registration areas for the identification of single birth numbers in BiH, which regulates the way in which unique parent numbers are issued which are of permanent character. In view of the dissatisfaction expressed by the citizens of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers expressed its willingness to take appropriate measures and actions in accordance with its competences. Here, I felt, I felt I needed to try and direct the discussion in some way and just cut it short and not repeat some questions. Thank you for your attention with one note. We have a Council of Ministers on Wednesday, and on the Council of Ministers, we put a proposal to amend the Single Parent Count Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15396	I would like to thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda, for further clarifications. Before we proceed with the debates of the MPs, a brief notice. In fact, today we are visiting the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH or rather, and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is also President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Ivo Josipović, so we plan to take one break from 13:30 to 15:00, so you have in mind, all clubs and ministers. The word is, the first deputy chairman of the House of Representatives, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15397	I thank the Honorable Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, chairman of the Council of Ministers, members, ladies and gentlemen. I've been an MP since 2000 and it's no small thing to be elected to this high house, and it's a big thing to be chosen four or five times. And I also know that some of my colleagues and colleagues didn't want to be in line for a ministerial chair or any other executive office or executive body, but they wanted this job to work honestly and honestly. And that's why I felt very ashamed on June 06th when some people spoke, who had no voice, not even from their family in the house, that we who got the vote of the BiH citizens did not do what they chose us to do. I hope that colleagues, who may not share an opinion from those of the RS who discussed it here today, could agree with me on that. And this is a unique opportunity here today, not to scan the situation, as far as I can see, a situational analysis of what was happening on June 06th is quite clear, but to draw conclusions on which we are going to sort things out in this country as they are sorted out in all democratic countries, as well as in this Europe that we are declaringly seeking. It is the legislative authority that writes the tasks, and the executive power executes, not vice versa, as it is in this country, where the executive authorities are depositing Gordi's knots or complicated things that they have received from somewhere and putting us in Parliament to do so. It's an inexhaustible and unacceptable situation. Of course, we should move first from ourselves. And that's why I'm proposing the conclusions you'll get in writing, now I'm just announcing them. Let us first start by ourselves and, within this point of the agenda, when we vote on the conclusions, we first vote on the trust of the Kolegijum, which is also part of the responsibility for the negative image of this Parliament created in public. We'll start with us. After that, the secretaries, both this House and the 20 joint institutions, who participated in what was going on here, and then we tasked the Council of Ministers by the end of this month to deliver to this Parliament the Law on Single Origin Number, the Law on State Property, the Law on Military Property, the judgment of Sejdić-Finc and the ruling to amend the Election Law, as regards the city of Mostar. If they don't, they'll resign on their own, so we don't get a question of the responsibility of the Council of Ministers and responsibilities... so they can be in the technical term. Who is the problem with being in a technical mandate by the end of the term of office if most, if any, agree on another Council of Ministers, so the same ministers should be proposed. I'm not talking about the work of an individual minister, I'm talking about a situation where it's the legislative authority that writes tasks and the executive authority executes, not vice versa. What the Presidency is talking about, and isn't you, all of you, along with me, ashamed to say that 98 things were agreed on by a percentage. They can't agree on anything in the Presidency, no budget, correct me if I'm wrong, they didn't send a consensus here. We don't know what our foreign policy is, we can't go to the UN, and anywhere else, to talk about foreign policy because we don't have it. We don't have a common position, and they say they're all agreed. The minister's advice says they're fine, there's no problem. The only problems are here in the BiH Parliament. Is that what you and I want to deliver? Shall we talk about the political impact on the BiH Prosecutor's Office? Why this Parliament, and that is in the conclusion, is in charge of ordering the House's sekretarijat to file criminal charges against the prosecutor who was on the day, who says there was no violation of the law, per member of BiH, article 191. The KZBiH where it was unquestionably proven to be a hostage crisis, where it was unquestionably proven that people and foreigners were trapped here. Why doesn't this Parliament have the strength to tell prosecutors - stop,...no one has to report a criminal report, you don't answer in this society to anyone. That's not true. We can't do that. Both colleagues and colleagues do not then if you fail to reach these conclusions, and you will get them in writing, to take a good look, to see that they have a basis to adopt, to ask me afterwards – why this Parliament is shown in a negative context, why when it was a hostage crisis, you could not get anyone on the phone or when you got someone on the phone you got encouraging messages – just stick to it. Who's gonna hold on? He who has the Constitution in his hands and who can change the Constitution of this country needs someone else on the side outside of Sarajevo to drink coffee and say he's holding on. If you're in the mood to change things in this country, to sort them out the way they're supposed to stand, it makes sense that we're having this debate today. If you just want to let some of the insolent people from the RS here say what they have and keep on doing it, we didn't come the right way to open this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15398	The word is from Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15399	Dear Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers with members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected guests. So, considering the events that took place, it seems to me to be one analysis that every journalist in his list has done much better than this post-festum thing has happened. And even those people who were far away from Sarajevo, if they followed anything, themselves built what was happening based on the direct transmission of BH television that in one particular time encouraged all these events. So let them accuse me of me meddling in editorial politics. They're never here to say anything, report what is positive, affirmatively done at BiH level, but that's why a special BH TV reporter stands there with protesters and whenever they have nothing to say he appears, and that's very fortunate for the Srbin Starčević, here's lucky and my good friend, he appears, reports that the BH football team won first place in the world championship, all excited, happy, overjoyed man. But let me get back to the subject. So, we're here today and we'll always be there. And that night, everyone announced that we were sitting in the cabinet of Honorable Mr. Živković, both SDS and SNSD and all together, and that I should not forget, to really express my gratitude to the chairman of Bećirović, we should not stress the prefix to the gentleman, we are here first on the same mission, but here, a friend who came and said, I will quote - I will be the last man to come out of this Parliament and I have come with you to be. Here, publicly my confession, however anyone understands Mr Bećirović, so he labeled him whether he's SDP or I don't know who, I thank him as a man for coming to say it. So then I'll be a little personal, because first I have to talk about myself and then others. I can't talk about what's throwing paper off the skyscrapers and saying we support demonstrations and, as she wants to go home to a child of, I don't know, four months, who's only there in that time, but that's where she supports demonstrations. So I'll express my satisfaction to the colleagues who showed at least human concern for the troubles I had that day. I didn't give Bog to anyone, nor did I want to play the victim, because I'm no longer afraid of anything in life, nothing can surprise me, but I didn't give Bog to anyone, not to that man who isn't here, but anywhere in BiH, anywhere on the planet, to survive all of this and then to have a doctor come to you who tells you -- I'm only tasked with evacuating someone from here if he has a heart attack or stroke. Well, people, can anyone visually assess who's going to have a heart attack and who's going to have a stroke?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15400	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15401	I'm gonna smile at myself because it was about me. But that's why the one with the white tape comes in and climbs the building wherever she wants with the megaphone. And what's most important in all this information and information, nobody to come, these structures, I don't need it, but here's the chairman and member of the College to Mr. Živković because we're all together, or here's the chairman of a party or someone to tell – people out there know when you're going to be evacuated, the only one you don't know, be patient a little longer. And then I'm at half four, here's my paw, I say, at half past four in the morning, people start evacing at four, because I know how intelligence or security is doing, they make a plan when the least interest of the citizens is when they all go to sleep, when they break up. Of course, that's for the best. And I support that time, I don't want anyone to get hurt by those protesters. But two thousand or, I didn't count or care about them, or two and a half thousand, and they say we have support from all over BiH. Three unfortunate people came from Banja Luka and carried a banner, and they joined something, nor who heard of them in their building – on behalf of the RS we support demonstrations in Sarajevo. What Republika Srpska? Who, whose name and who are these people anyway? Well, I've identified you all, and I won't call or ask the D.A.'s office ever, because I never count on them to do anything by official duty, but they all remember that I've been there all the time since 2005, so personally, I've been wearing criminal charges against N.N.N.A. execs, known perpetrators, and I've taken the criminal charges who stole the Dayton Party, stole some BH people, so whoever stole 22 of the CEFTA deal, so who did all sorts of things against the constitution. And now, you come in position, the high representative receives that delegation of some protesters and says – they need to evacuate foreign diplomats that happened in the building. He doesn't say he should, not individually, because we know friends, we sat down when he was an ambassador to Austria and not a high representative. I know a man is sick there, I don't know if heSlavuju die in five minutes and if he'll even come to the next session to talk. Maybe some people would've loved it if I'd died if I hadn't talked today. But you shouldn't look forward to someone else's accident because you never know when she comes to the other door of those who rejoice. And I never look forward to it, never gave it to Bog. We have to be people. We came here today, and we'll always come to show that we weren't afraid for our safety that night. We understood things that night, and they had nothing to do with the single mother number. Because there's a woman who's got a child in a wheelchair who doesn't like him happyly or wrongly, so first as a mother, she needs to be aware that the demonstrations don't need to be sent to her husband, she doesn't like him, and he's gonna lose her head, she's gonna be alone, a widow, not a child pushing in a wheelchair. And there they come and bang on the car of the chairman's council of ministers won't let them get out, and no one's guilty, no one's responsible for it. You don't know who she is with the white tape that... on the megaphone and like he's some kind of leader. I find it on the internet, an anti-day organisation that says – return the Constitution of the Republic of BiH to pre-war, this-that. And now he's interested in a unique home number. My people, I, as friends, especially from the Federation, will not mention anyone individually, no party or individual, look at you as friends, don't look at us from the RS as a remethylative factor. And as soon as we get to the session, don't wait here that we're going to cause riots in some, disintegration of BiH, but people, we're never going to accept any law that's counter-constitutionally proposed, so let the Civil Initiative Center organise every day by 10 conferences and say these in Parliament unemployed, receive salaries and adopt 3% of the law or I don't even know how many they make estimates. We will pass every law that is in accordance with the Constitution and the Dayton Agreement, and it is in force. And, well, if I didn't take it out myself now, I don't like it, but what does Mr. Sejdić have to do with a unique birth number, there's a picture, I'll show it to you, standing amongst the demonstrations? How could you expect the support of the cantonal minister of police, if Mayor Komšić, who is on a little less duty, not that member of the presidency, I know both names, but not to mention, I don't like it, he says – I support the protesters, and he comes and joins there. And we're in his town. Because he thinks this is his town, that this isn't my town. Guys, this is my town. At least while I'm here on temporary duty. It used to be a real town. So I've told you a thousand times, and that's very important, I moved this building, he's never been there. And then you get these out, we're not afraid of those pictures over there that write, but it's incomprehensible on the portals you have several thousand reactions. The fact that he writes he needs to kill me, it's just the atmosphere of Sarajevo, just transferred in one disastrous way and rejecting us Serbian MPs that we don't trust anyone here in Sarajevo. But I stress and finish, we don't scare anyone, we have no reason. We are not destroying BiH, but we will never, under fear, accept any draft law so that Obama can propose it to Brussels to be proposed by anyone. So let's keep working in the interest of making everyone feel better. Thank you very much. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15402	Thank you. The word has an MP, Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15403	Thank you. Here, I'm particularly pleased to have the opportunity to speak to you again, although I wanted to say a minute or two as part of the replica, now I have even more arguments to say at the end. I would be pleased to discuss this subject in this way in an atmosphere similar to this House. 2.5 years ago when I came to Parliament I was particularly happy, but that day, June 06, I was so unhappy, so sad, so definitely disappointed with everything that was happening, after a few days in particular. And then I wondered, she drinks everything for the neighbors, they say what you're doing up there. Who to whom to explain this situation here in this House, when we all sort of understand each other, and when there comes a vote, a minority each in its own way. The unique birth number was certainly problematic, but I believed that we would solve it in accordance with the constitution, in accordance with the law. Unfortunately, there we were disappointed and certain that the revolt of the people, whether it's organized, disorganized, I really wouldn't want to talk about it, but I think the people have the right to say that they can't, I don't know, travel, they can't seduce a child, they can't get a single birth number, I think it's a major failure of our executive bodies. As far as I'm concerned, here's all these events I think the problem is that the public hasn't been informed. I have twice initiated in the past year and a half following this Parliament, because we are the only Parliament in the region that the media and the public service do not follow Parliament's work, in any way. We even suggested that it be later, that it be re-emitting, etc. However, this very parliamentary majority, which I do not belong to, has refused for the first and second time. I think that's the problem. Definitely, here's the chance we had to hear different speeches with, and honestly I have to say that I completely disagree less. But especially Mr. Živković has also expressed his feelings, which I think is definitely the question of us here, as well as the executive authorities. What I would especially like to say was that, in the end, it was even harder for me, it was neither heroic nor, not heroic, that in that way, the chairman of the Council of Ministers had to leave this building, which was very ugly. The other thing, Minister of Security, I think that at least he should have made an opportunity here and the elements so that at least the cameras wouldn't record those moments. Another thing I would like to ask, which is – where is Mr. Minister at that moment, Radončić, where was he at that moment? No matter where he was, how he felt when he had the information, probably that the people gathered, that Parliament, in some way that the MPs were closed here, that we were communicating with each other in some way and getting ready and wondering where this was going. What's his thinking? And secondly, what would he have done if he had been here with us and watched, with just all the international representatives of the financial institutions that were here, with whom I had the opportunity to talk, to assess the security situation in the country as the minister of security that he was here and to observe what was going on outside, that he could not command, that he could not order, he cannot in any way enable the MPs and all present to get out of this Parliament safely, that is, normal work? I really don't want as a man and as an MP to the people who chose me 24, just as we all sort of got trust from the people, we have to look and we have to answer these questions. I really expect in one normal environment and atmosphere to answer these questions, if we want these things to go forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15404	The speaker of the Council of Ministers, Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda, applied for the word. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, members of the Council of Ministers may always receive a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15405	Here, I'll do it very briefly. I'm disappointed with your discussion, because you obviously don't have the information, and you've succumbed to these federal and bh media as I'm out of the building. I left the building at 4:05 with Mr. Čolak, no minister except Mr. Nović was in the building at the time. Consideration should be given to the report on the work of the Council of Ministers. At 15:05, I was informed that the session was closed, at 5:00 a.m. I had a meeting with the MP(?). So what was I supposed to do? To wait, the ones they organized and sitting in this room and conducting downstairs, when they're going to let me go outside, when Incko's going to decide if he's going to get the Amerikanac out, and whether we, what Professor Mile Lasić said, are you just gonna pull out strangers on them. In your actions, the way I came out, and you look at the Facebooks and other people coming out, I'm proud. And if this happened again and it was the same situation again, it would also... So you're giving me cowardice on something, a man who went out in front of 20,000 demobilized fighters when no one was there, when there was no minister in the federal government and when they burned the federal government when I was. But then there was anger and fear, and I wanted to calm it down. This is embarrassing that you said now and I will tell you again and I would do the same thing again, if we were living and proud of the state of BiH where the chairman of the Council of Ministers would be a hostage, so now let me tell you with the white tape of Mr. Aličković, who has a criminal application there and a few other people who beat up girls in front of my eyes. I didn't run anywhere, I went with Mr. Bariša because we had a meeting at 5:00, and I left at 4:05 because the session of Parliament was over at 3:00. And what you're going to mount, what you're going to do, what media you're going to watch, it's already your, your choice, it's far, far below all of my moral, ethical and professional characteristics and life. And you can tell me whatever you want, but it's quite clear what you think of me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15406	Thank you. An emissary, Aleksandra Pandurević, signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15407	Thank you, Chairman. Since the U.S.A. is making a little out of it, an esteemed colleague is not the job of the security minister to chase the cameramen, he forbids them to record. There's something called freedom of the media or I don't know, maybe you're thinking about these cameras on buildings. But the job of the cantonal commissioner, Mr. Vahid Ćosić, who was your staff, was to provide security here. And I expected a little more criticism from the SDA. If that were the case, God Bog, it happened in Banja Luka and if the SDS 25 acted the way he acted, we guarantee you he wouldn't be doing that function today. The SDA as a responsible party, what I least expect is to raise the question of the responsibility of your staff, not that you accuse the Minister of not throwing jackets or I don't know what to the cameras.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15408	Second replica, MP Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15409	... here's just one more sentence I'll say. I do not want to stress absolutely any dissatisfaction, but I definitely want to support that however, as much as I felt from your previous conversations, that I should support that this definitely was not an acceptable situation, but if that is the case, and that you think that the chairman of the Council of Ministers should in that way, what the cameras showed, I, I don't like it, but I don't want it in every case that, nor did Mr. Chairman want me in this way, but I say that in every case, we should provide security to the highest officials. And in the end, we are messengers, too, so don't make any difference between us. We are in a way, not a problem, here if we were MPs, but international representatives were here, but I wanted the minister, I expect the minister of security to say that he would feel, I don't want to criticize him, but I think it would be good to act in a way and leave the impression of responsible people, which, in my opinion, is not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15410	The word has an emissary or a replica of Ambassador Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15411	I thank the chairman. I welcome all colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers. I'd only say one thing here if we were going the other way. And at Mr. Jagodić's discussion, he would just like to say something, that we should also know the exact competences that are which and who corresponds to what responsibilities. If we know the jurisdiction, if we know the situation in which it happened and who's responsible for what part of it, then we can go directly to the people we need and who should have done their part of the job. The Ministry of Security is clearly aware of what has jurisdiction, we know who is in charge and we are clearly told who is in charge of part of the security of the building, part of the security of the VIP guests, part of the security inside the building and how certain coordination and system are going. If we have the Coordination Agency, and the Coordination Agency has its jurisdiction, or control of their work has the Supervisory Board, and there is absolutely no competence of the Ministry of Security, then what are we talking about? The activity done by the security minister throughout the process is even more than minors in his jurisdiction. And let's not absolutely transfer any negative flows to anyone from the Council of Ministers, to anyone from Parliament. I think that the situation that has occurred was both negative and unfortunate for all MPs, regardless of which party and nationality, one bad message from BiH to the outside. And I think in that system we also need to talk about the causes that led to the demonstrations, which is the dissatisfaction of citizens with a number of questions. The culmination of all of this is a unique meth number and we have to ask x questions and come up with what is causing, what is the cause for... demonstrations and how to get out, in general, all of these problems that 26 relate to, I say, culminating all the problems of the citizens, the state of BiH and one and the other entity and Brcko District. In one common way, we try to get out of this situation, discuss, agree with tolerance, respect each other and respect each other's chosen functions to do their part of the job, and then as MPs, we take on a part of the responsibility to bring down tensions, conversation and agreement, and then we will certainly have a better way. And once again, I would ask that absolutely on our own agenda we do not accuse anyone, we do not personally go, the situation is unfortunate, difficult, and I think we should accept it and take all part of the responsibility as much as anyone at this moment is responsible for all of this. We are all responsible, and we are each party to the extent that it has a hand in Parliament to pass a law, to act on something, but to pray also to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, to respect the principle of bringing it, to put it this way, to a sustainable level of work of all bodies and institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15412	I thank Ambassador Đugum. The word is from Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15413	Well, of course, at its core, this is a political issue and what was happening on 05th, 06th of June, that only at first sight is a security problem. The security problem would be absolutely in the role of political goals or perhaps better expressed political approaches to BiH as it is. With the right of fellow Đugum, he said that we should really look a little more at or try to figure out the causes. The unique birth number has served as a cause, of course, the causes are much deeper, and the deepest of them is that we do not have BiH defined from within, that it is as it is not the result of the internal agreement of three constituent peoples and of all citizens living in it, the consequence of which is then what we are witnessing is not only about the unique birth number, but also on a number of other issues, and not just today, not just yesterday, but years from Dejton to here. There's always a game of outwitting whether or not someone's going to pass some kind of legal proposal that's in the interest of each other, and at the expense of others, etc., etc. So the more ambitious suggestion is to come out of all of this, of course, sit down and agree on our own, to find the answer to the question of what BiH is, that this answer then results in one truly stable, truly democratic, absolutely functional, but democratically functional country that we will all be equally satisfied or equally dissatisfied, not relevant. If these events were a dominant political factor, I won't, I'll try to be very brief, I'll single out only two things that are like this to me, which have intrigued me from this information that we've received and that we're discussing on this subject. The first is, in the information there that somewhere on June 5th, a management worker was contacted, paraphrasing but I am close to the quote, the Cantonal Ministry of Internal Affairs, and that it was asked to remove cars that prevented normal traffic, or exit from the official garages here. And that man refused to do so on the grounds that he didn't, that he didn't get an order to do so, but that he would file criminal charges against those, this, etc. And another detail of this information, and it's already mentioned, I'll repeat it anyway, that's the fact that the prosecution's reaction was that there's no reason here for theirs, that they don't find the material to act, because there are no elements of the crime. Despite this, I think the matter would absolutely be worth that the 27 BiH Penal Code has been suspended, but as far as I know, he is still in force, they have clear articles that explicitly define that in the whole case it was about, in certain segments of course, criminal acts. Now, colleague Živković said a few good things. Representatives at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the House of Representatives, MPs in the House of Peoples, are partly guilty of one look at the Parliamentary Assembly by the public, which is what it is, and is the result of the wrong methodology of work being applied to us. Instead of being important and key, and therefore sensitive things, trying to define, find some compromise, some consensus in the Council of Ministers, or don't give Bog at the level of the BiH Presidency, and then to discuss it in a normal, relaxed and more appropriate manner in the Parliamentary Assembly, we are unfortunately in the opposite case. With us, and even representatives of the parliamentary majority, they use the Parliamentary Assembly as a stage to play the show, and they propose laws that are known in advance not to pass, but are proposed for reasons to position themselves as someone who is okay, who is bigger, I don't know, Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat, etc. from the other and thus potentially within its own polling base would provide a little more political points. And of course it is to the detriment of all of us and I absolutely advocate and agree with my colleague Živković, who said something similar, that we need to get serious and try to solve things in a much more serious and much more appropriate way for this country. As far as the occasion is concerned, I'll only be brief. You know that the HDZ BiH, but also HDZ 1990, when it comes to this problem, has absolutely always called for crossing over some political or political frameworks precisely because the whole thing was of an important interest to every man living in this country. And this interest significantly, in our opinion, outweighed some of the political interests or political interests that, unfortunately, led to the fact that we got two concrete attitudes from which it was very difficult to come out of later. And that's one reason why it went wrong methodologically and because it wanted to play a show in the Parliamentary Assembly instead of trying to find a solution in some other places, a little further from the public's eyes. Here, along with this appeal that, if nothing else, I believe it is too pretentious to expect that we will now sit down and start an internal agreement on the internal definition of BiH, but at least to reconsider this methodology of work, I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15414	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15415	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers and guests. Here, we've been discussing a few, almost two hours, about one information that all the opportunities will end up as well as the title of the agenda point, and we have information about the security aspects after a month. We could probably get this information after two, three days of what we got. And I am truly sorry, I will say that at the beginning of this debate, which we have not all found together 28 forces to meet after seven days and that in the working atmosphere, and 135% on the trail of what the esteemed Vice-President pointed out in his debate, on this basis to open the debate, not on the security conditions of us sitting in this Chamber or in these offices, but on how the institutions of this country work at all, because what happened is the consequence. We are witnessing that for several years already created, motivated, not to say perhaps paid from different sources, there is an inappropriate campaign against the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH that we are all deafening. It prepares the ground for the destruction of the most BiH-based institution, and it... in front of our eyes, in front of all our security agencies, in front of the eyes of all our ministries, in front of all those who report to us, and they know we can't do anything, they know they're not responding to us, and they know they're making a circus out of us, and they're pouring oil on fire, and that those who run the campaign against us, they only get more material to say -- here they are, God Bog they're giving to anyone, our parliamentarians. I have said countless times that I felt proud and very proud when I was first elected to this highest House of Legislative Authorities in this country, because I think it is a really great honor and great privilege among the 4 million inhabitants to be directly elected, not indirectly but directly elected, just so three other members of the Presidency are elected in this country. And I've really tried all this time to do my mandate as responsibly and to those who voted for me, but also to those who didn't, trying and thinking that I always do what's best for, here's to say it in the broadest sense, first for my children and all the children of BiH. Today I am ashamed to be a representative in this Parliamentary Assembly. Those who run the campaign have succeeded, at least as far as I'm concerned, it's a shame to say that I am a representative in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, because it has become the most embarrassing occupation in this country. Is there anything more embarrassing in this country than being a representative today at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly? If anyone has any, please let me know so I know, maybe it'll be a little easier for me. Why is that? We ask ourselves, as we make the laws, as we call it, as they report to us, but no one suits us men, a great difference. We have a report that, here's what I don't know about today's information, what's it for? The Council of Ministers doesn't fit us, and I guess we do, or maybe I discovered something new today, here. The Council of Ministers shall respond to the parties from which it comes. And so it may happen that the chairman of the Council of Ministers calls the Minister or, God Bog, someone lower-ranked, that this one won't even answer him, he won't answer his phone, you might think. And what's going on? Nothing. So, after the inert. We don't like the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, because they know that these lower ones don't respond to us, they won't respond to them because they know they can't be replaced, they know they can't sanction them. They know what they're sitting here that we can't do to them, but only the people of courtesy are here, they can... whatever they want, they can do whatever they want, they can do nothing. Look, we have a circus because of the home number and we need to tell this public a hundred times, but we have a severed media. I don't care if it's nine, eight, seven, five or so, I don't care, but no one will say. We're the same as all those who had one or the other solution. I respect both the solution immediately, but we have the fact that the Council of Ministers has twice proposed to us, the Council of Ministers, means now this parliamentary initiative is not passing any proposal by the Council of Ministers. How? So, the wolf's full, and the sheep's number. The Council of Ministers as a suggestion, they make a deal, you might think, and then we can't make a deal. Of course it's our fault then, they're good we're guilty. The Council of Ministers takes a decision unanimously, they say, a decision, I don't know if they were right, whether they could replace this part of the law with a decision, but 29 unanimously. Well, why don't you just pass us a bill to vote instead of that decision? Here, I'm asking here in front of everyone, in front of the entire public, give us a bill that you have unanimously established, so that the parliamentary majority vote it and not make a circus more than that parent number. Because there's really a circus made out of birth numbers, a circus that makes many citizens of this country suffer. It's not a protest, it's not a spontaneous event, it's not a spontaneous gathering, it's not a spontaneous one. It's not a spontaneous one. It's not a spontaneous one. And it is interesting that they did not go before the entity governments or the cantonal governments or the city councils where they define 95% of their life issues, which are truly and justifiably unsatisfactory, but were waiting for the trigger to come before the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and that, here they show their dissatisfaction, justifiable dissatisfaction. The ways in which this was manifested were completely different but justifiable dissatisfaction. And as long as we're discussing, here's the debate I don't unfortunately believe will contribute to something special, in a way that now that someone else, listening to all of our discussions, is going to take some big steps, conclusions, etc., and establish even the minimum order in this country, is not going to change anything, so nothing's going to change. There are many who have an interest in putting criticism or dissatisfaction on the public eye. Because if it's directed towards us not towards them, it's quite simple to think, and this one, it shouldn't be some kind of great philosopher or wiser so to conclude something like that, it's clear. The powers of the Parliamentary Assembly are what they are, which is what the Ministry of Security is, here I don't know if the former Minister of Security who was angry with me now listens to me when I told him from this pay phone that he's not even asking Mary's court here. And he was mad at me, I didn't mean it, I'm not happy about that fact that we understand each other and it's not about who the minister is, but it's about the Constitution and the law that we shared it and unfortunately the Minister of Security, the state, is not asking. Here, we finally had an indication not to ask. The fact that many or some of these put this into some kind of inter-entity issue right now is that I'm absolutely against it. I don't think this has anything to do with entities, nothing to do with nations, nothing to do with... this Parliament. Or we're the same MPs here, so the same, same way we came here, the same way we've been chosen, only in different constituency, we have the same mandates, and I don't see what, is my mandate harder, bigger, but here, I don't know, than I, of my fellow Bursać who's in another constituency, that I'm not speaking from someone from the Federation, etc. We are exactly the same advocates, and as long as we do not accept the fact, it means that first we have left all the levers of decision-making outside of this Parliament, the key things are agreed by the leaders are not agreed by Parliament, and if the leaders are not agreed on by them, but by us. Look, I mean, now it's our fault for both leaders and non-leaders, we're also guilty of the Council of Ministers, and we're also guilty of entity governments. And we are guilty, because even that part of the power that we have let others decide on them, and then to us, how are we going to negotiate,...to make a deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15416	It's hard for me to say, it's hard for me to say I like the discussion, but time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15417	I don't like the occasion, and I'm closing it. Thank you very much. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15418	I thank you, too. Replica, dear colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15419	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs. So that my colleague Lozančić doesn't get me wrong, only when it comes to his discussion is a brief correction of the false assumption. The Council of Ministers has established a temporary, temporary decision, not a law and part of that provisional decision, is the last member that does not prejudge this temporary decision, so that the connection with the law I would ask you not to do so. However, as I have already answered the word, several replicas to previous presentations. We have a situation when we talk about some unknown categories, someone, somewhere, someone is responsible, those who know, those who feel called, etc. One man told me a long time ago in paranoia everything fits and that's really true. In today's day, especially in the job we do paranoia, there's more than anything else. And the same man told me – don't ever try to correct someone's paranoia. I say, "Why?" So he says, "Because it also fits in his paranoia that someone will say to him that this is not the case. And okay, we all live with our paranoias, but I really propose on all of us to get rid of it in today's discussion, to get rid of politicization, because there's no need, dear colleague Jagodiću, to figure out who's guilty of you and to falsify something the Minister of Security for what you know isn't responsible for, what you know is his ingenuity, and there's really no need for such things, just like there's no need for hard words to start over or the end of the beginning, or I don't know what, unless the goal is for us to keep this going on for two days and everyone to empty out what's on his soul and to ignore what we're actually supposed to talk about. So, I appeal to all of us, here I am, I sincerely hope that in the present part of the debate you could see that the SDP Club wasn't used to do this, that we really ignorate, and even those personal paranoias, that we try to get back on the subject, that we try to stop that one of our own, so it is human, but it's not a good urge to use this for politicization, that our own, that the party that's our rival, we're invoicering something that doesn't stand or people from that party, and that we stay away from the hard words, because I'm afraid that if we act this way, this could be another session that won't get away from this point of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15420	The word has, or replica, Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15421	Well, I have to say, I didn't understand the reason for the replica. I made it very clear that we are playing ping pong in this country because no one is responding to anyone, because no one is responsible then can do so, because I said that the Council of Ministers, as I heard it, unanimously made a provisional decision on a single parent number. If that's true, if that's true, why didn't you suggest us, I just said, the law is also unanimous and that it's not here now that you vote unanimously in the Council of Ministers of Law, and then we here from the same parties from the 31st that you voted on, then we won't do it. And not individually, but all the clubs. I mean, who are we kidding here? That's the point. So if that other part of the replica was, I didn't recognize it, though, there's no, look out, we start calling things the right name won't change anything people. It won't change anything as long as we're tactile and walking on the wire, and if Bog don't give it to anyone we don't mind, there's no way, we'll just sink deeper and we'll normally be more guilty and justifiably blame it. Now we're getting a little bit of guilt. A little bit, because it suits many of us to be guilty, but more and more of us become really guilty, because we don't consume our share of power, we don't ask for responsibility from those we have the right to ask for, and then it's normal that we're also responsible for what others don't do.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15422	The word has an MP, Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15423	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. The fact that we are gathered here today in a high home should surely be understood as a encouraging fact and as visible evidence that we accept further responsibility to ourselves standing before this House in the coming period. I would like to congratulate everyone in the College who had political wisdom and strength to create conditions for the continuation of the work of the BiH Parliament. Today's debate, although bearing the title of the security issue, is it, in fact, showing that, in the essence of the focus of the debate, we should put a political issue which has caused us to have this delay in Parliament's work and this, I would say, emergency situation. So, in the SDP, we believe that this is not a primary security issue, but certainly a security issue is an integral part of the complex approach to this problem as an extremely complex social problem, and this raises the question – what is the big deal that will happen in BiH's political life in the coming period. We should do this as people who think politically that we have a question ahead of us. It's obvious that citizens are looking for political pluralism. They demand that not only leaders, not even political parties, decide on important issues, but also decide citizens as part of civil society. Political pluralism, it is something we will have to learn about, perhaps as some new achievement in the development of democracy in BiH, which puts it ahead of all the actors of the process new challenges, issues and dilemmas. So, first challenges before those who organise and run such civic activity. It can't be a dictatorship, it can't be an imperative, it can be democratically expressed political views, primarily priorities in social development, and we need to understand them. As such, they will help most to change and become more effective in our political action. So we didn't have, and clearly we should point out, we didn't have the solutions that forced our citizens through the protests. They asked us to solve the problem, not the way we're going to solve it. So, in front of Parliament and before us there are a lot of jobs that are precisely from these priorities, which citizens impose, remain as our jurisdiction, responsibility, our mission. So, citizens are looking for a solution to the unique birth number, and it is up to us to find a solution to how to do it in a way that brings together all sorts of conflicted views on the issue. And not only a unique home number, but also a lot of things that will arise in the next period ahead of us, which will be the first 32 issues related to military property, the issue of constitutional changes on the verdict line in the case of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac and many other issues. So I think we actually have to keep in mind that we're going to live with the parallel activity of citizens, and that this isn't an incident, that this isn't something that happened and more as an elemental phenomenon, the elemental accident is going to go through us leaving, of course, certain consequences. It will be a normal political situation and a normal political context. In that sense, I think the security issue is also becoming very important. They need to define the rules in which this democraticism can be implemented, this civil activation can be implemented. Of course, it is unacceptable to endanger the freedom of people who were blocked at the time of June 06, so freedom of movement, freedom of people who were in that building, and I think it is one lesson that we must actually learn from the security service, and those who will protest in the future, and ourselves. So there must be clear rules so that democratic activity of citizens can be expressed precisely in the spirit of a democracy. Here we have a lot of extensive analysis on security aspects, I wouldn't particularly engage in them, but I would like to say that we can develop on the basis of this information from various theories, conspiracy theories and similar things. And that's why I'm in a political context, whether it was very, very, very funny to say, to hear that the organizers of these protests are SDP and Lagumdžija. So many arguments and counterarguments you have that actually deny this kind of approach. I would now have to use the thought of one of our extraordinary Nobelovac laureate, Ivo Andrić, who said that in these places we judge about others most on the basis of our own knowledge and proclivities. Therefore, it is certainly a message addressed to certain political purposes, to a certain audience, to certain objectives, and I do not think it contributes at all to a constructive approach that we need today in relation to this situation. A constructive approach in the sense that our energy, our strengths are focused on solving the problems that are ahead of us, which are in fact citizens as their own interests. In the end, I would just like to say that for this discussion and the polemics of the Dayton Agreement and the protection of national rights and institutions, etc., personally, here I am now saying, personally, I have always had an exceptional sensitivity to this, trying to really call things what the Constitution has defined, and that is why I am terribly bothered by the systematic denial of a constitutional category by many, therefore not all, many politicians from the RS, which is the calling of BiH institutions to joint institutions. Believe it also represents one of the very, very subtle ways of ignoring, disabling the Dayton Agreement. I think it would be useful for our hygiene if we were going to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15424	We have two replicas. The word has an emissary, Aleksandra Pandurević, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15425	Thank you, Chairman. First I'm going to look back on this last one of our appointments to these institutions together. Well, Mr. Domazet if they're not common then whose are they? Is that what you're trying to tell us... 33
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15426	Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15427	Wait a minute, Comrade Domazet, please, he has a word for it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15428	And why do you forbid us to feel them for ourselves and to say that they are ours, that they are ours? So let us want these to be our institutions too, Mr. Domazet.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15429	Just a second. I have given the words of MPs Aleksandra Pandurević and will ask everyone, including a colleague of the Domazet, to, while the other MP is expressing his views, not to report from the scene. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15430	Thank you, but I hope you'll take this away from me from time. The second thing, I'm only now certain, Mr. Domazet, after this talk about citizenship, citizens, democratic activation, that it was just the SDP that was behind this. And don't forget, Mr. Domazet, that there are videos of your activists being shot down there. What were they doing? Why weren't there SDS activists down there, SNSD? And speaking of citizens, Mr. Domazet, that morning when I came to work, when I opened my emails, I'm just going to read it because it's really inappropriate for some of them, Chetnic, not to say what, you've all cooked up from genocide, who you are, who you are, you're a waste, and you are, and so on, not to mention. Next again, the Chetnik will not help you, Mr Dodik, who allegedly sent the police from East Sarajevo to rescue you. You're guilty, you're suffering the consequences of your actions. And Dodik's not smarter with his insertion of JMB, and that's gonna show, so he didn't get anything. You're not an indigenous province or a monarchy. Next curse to my family. Next I wish I could tell you that you are, that I'm not reading. The next e-mail welcome from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia chicken hens, your policy led by the hen RS is known to birds on the border not to talk about the world and the EU, etc., etc. If you think that's the RS chicken hen, please try to split up and declare it state. These are e-mails, Mr. Domazet, citizens who protested in front of Parliament. These e-mails are dealing with the RS MUP, the high-tech crime unit that I reported this to, and they all came from Sarajevo's address. So, Mr. Domazet, I don't believe anyone has received from colleagues from the Federation e-mail where he was mentioned by a national decree, belonging to the people, etc. Please, none of us here are naive, to lie to ourselves, we all know who's behind what's down there and what's his goal, but let's see, for the future's sake, how we're gonna deal with this and how we're gonna get out of this situation in the most painless way. By denying what it was, I'm afraid we won't come to a solution. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15431	Thank you. Replica, MP Slavko Jovičić, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15432	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, it's a replica to the esteemed Professor Domazet. You know, if you say in the first sentence that the security aspect doesn't matter here, then I'm asking what's important? The man first needs to get up in the morning, wash, dress, eat, and be safe, and then plan the activities. If he's not safe, what's on his mind? He doesn't think about the Pentagon, he doesn't think about Ronaldo, I don't know Đoković or anyone. So that's the point. What makes me happy in the whole story, I support every NGO but who has a membership, but, I say, he looks forward to the whole story that it was just there, according to my assessment, 2,000 people, which Sarajevo did not join and that they ignored many, so they said – well, there's a figure of who's leading it. Secondly, in all that racy, says counterpart Pandurević, what offensive messages are there. No one can insult me. How someone will insult me and what he can write me, which banner he wears, if he writes to me that BiH pays me. Well, that makes sense. But who's paying the BiH budget? Do happy Srbin from the RS pay for it? Is there an institution, here I won't call it a common, entity, or communal, I don't know which one, which is paying money to the BiH budget? Whose budget is that? Do the Bošnjak just pay it, do the Srbin, Hrvat, or do I not know who? But let's not go that far. So, Mr. Domazet, I highly appreciate you and all your colleagues, of course, but never, remember, there is no one who has gathered 100,000 people, I will not be frightened, I have gone through my misery. But that's why I'm going to ask at one of my next sessions and from my colleague, Majkić, who I support to hold this session of my commission, I say mine under the supposed signs. Everywhere in a democratic state, people protest, but to say, here's what I'm going to say, 600 meters, 800 meters, a mile from Parliament's tape and protest brother, insult all you want. Whatever banners you want, you put me first, you have a brother's picture there you've been drawing for days and writing whatever you want, but let me go home, man. I'm barely standing on my feet. Let that happy woman who's waiting for a child out there, and I don't even know my family. And don't abuse it because this isn't the city of Bošnjak. If that's how you want me to do it, I was a witness once they were expelled, so don't do it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15433	I thank my colleague Jovičić. Replica, MP Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15434	So, I was thinking of BiH institutions. Of course, you can use completely different attributes in an emotional, colloquial and other conversation, etc., but when we speak in the official language, then it is BiH institutions, not joint institutions. 35 The second question is about evaluations, political assessments based on globs. So, I can't help you there, that's your problem, and I think it's in a similar problem, of course with other qualifications, grades, accusations, etc., minority of every politician who communicates via the Internet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15435	Replica, MP Borislav Bojić, and after that we hope to move on to discussions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15436	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to try really in a very appropriate tone to replicate Mr. Domazet for the simple reason that there's been a lot heard here about the promotion of civil society where we see a serious political trap and that you know that we recognize it very well, especially us from the RS. And I want to refer you to Article 1. The BiH Constitution, attitude 3, which says BiH is whole but from two parts and standing just like this, I quote -- BiH consists of two entities. It consists of two entities, Mr. Domazet, that's what the Constitution says. It further writes -- the Federation of BiH and RS, in the following text: entities. That's how it stands in the Constitution. And we see this country as a common country. So let's just get this straight. Next question, Mr. Domazet, I expected you to pay attention to several events that were very important to BiH. Please also take it from the aspect of the economy where I expected it from you, you know that these political events that occurred in Sarajevo have prevented important delegations from coming to BiH. Let's just say three, the EU's foreign policy committee, led by Doris pak and five people who were supposed to come to BiH. Tell me for what reason? Because this is where the conditions were, assumptions created that they could come. Is the fact that also here in BiH should have been the arrival of an EU expert delegation related to IPA funds. Is that what happened? It's not. What reason didn't happen? I'm asking you, I'm deliberately asking you that question. And of course, when it comes to the security aspect, it should be reminded that the ministers are security, security, or whatever you want to say, who were supposed to organise a conference here in BiH, and it is delayed. Does that mean there's a... a situation here, Mr. Domazet? And then you send us political messages, one man one vote, a civil state and so on. We recognized it very well, and there is no trap that we will fall into from the RS from the aspect of what we heard from you here in this discussion that you said, and colleagues are sent emails, it's not about glogs, so it's not about social networks, but at her address are sent these messages, fellow Domazet.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15437	Replica, the first deputy chairman, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15438	Thank you. 36 To my esteemed colleague, Domazet, to say that the joint institutions are neither ugly nor scolding. It means that we feel these institutions as our own, and I wouldn't play with it or mess with it. That is quite acceptable to me, to say, the nickname, unlike someone who does not want to say Republika Srpska but says RS, or worse to say smaller BiH entity, or not to say things that people say, and you will admit that they are people from "1. March" close to your political party. We've talked here for a long time, and we've opened the subject several times about the name of the joint institutions just to google the name of the joint institution, you'll get over a million in milliseconds, meaning things that google throws out, and it's about the joint institutions. If you read all the PIC reports, and I know that your political party reads these reports in detail, you will see that there are common institutions listed there. If only the flag and coat of arms laws of BiH are revised, it said that the flag could be on common institutions. If you don't like that name so much, you have a way through the Presidency and through a member of the College to put that provision on the Constitutional Court and to throw out those joint institutions. So don't make us use an expression that's neither ugly nor hurt anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15439	So we continue with the discussions. I remind all those present today that today is not a thematic session dedicated to security information but that we are waiting for 29-30 more points of the agenda and that we are also taking care of this fact. I know we could all discuss all the issues, but let's focus, it's probably going to be a July 25th session dedicated to constitutional reform, so we'll be able to talk about it in part. Here you go. A colleague of Saša Bursać.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15440	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome everyone in the O.R. Here, I've answered to say the same word and I didn't want to answer for the line, although Mr. Domazet vi respect you as one of the moderate Members here, yet I absolutely cannot agree with you. The citizens' decision, that's true, is decided by them in the elections. They can also decide through protests, it's all right, but if democratic activation is that we were here in the morning until four o'clock because we couldn't physically go out, then I absolutely disagree with you. So it definitely can't be and can't be, and nowhere in the world, it's not democratic activity if someone deny you one of the basic human rights and that's to move. You're here with me today, and there's no single mother number on the agenda today, but there's no wheelchairs, there's no baby carriages outside the building, there's no Protestants, at least no one's ever told us that anyone's gathering. Why aren't they here? There is no stick of conductor in the hands of politicians who unfortunately conduct and use a baby cart for the means. They're not there because they're also waving their bats and running some cheerleading trenches and who knows what, because they kind of have them on their own. I definitely expected to be honest today, to be honest, to be criticized. Niko's even criticizing us just because I'm getting tighter and tighter, because politicians in Sarajevo are not willing to stand there today. That's why the plateau outside this building is empty. And it's not, as you say, democratic activation. You're an economic expert and I've been able to hear great things through committees from you, but what I know as an ordinary citizen that credit rating died, in BiH he no longer exists, he's 37 buried 100 metres from... He was buried mostly by gentlemen on the left who do nothing and who make up a report that comes and doesn't look like anything. I get chilly when I think about what would have happened if this had all happened together in Banja Luka. Bog knows who accused us all of what. Well, it happened in Sarajevo, so no one, Bog knows, is accusing us of anything. It's disastrous how BHRT acted, it's a complete disaster. It seemed so lame in the end that it was already a little bit pathetic because when it all went down a little bit and calmed down, there it was, so that they could report for some oil to come down onto the fire. And every little bit here in front of us is a request that we do something like help one way or another. Here I ask you how an MP from the RS can help them here now, so they can raise their hands for anything when we are called in every possible and impossible way. So it's BHRT. It's a sad thing, Mr. Bevanda, that no one answered our call. It's a pity you haven't replaced anyone yet. If I were you, and no one answered my call, I'd be taking shifts by now, so anyone, just out of the blue. You didn't react the way you were supposed to. Mr. Belkić says he will burn under your feet. Mr. Belkić, I almost took out a loan, I was three full days full-time, full-time, collecting papers for that loan. Now these people who have been locked up here, how long do you think it'll take to get the paper now, what do you think the interest is going to be? The Hyde papers should be spent less and six days, but we'll have as much interest as we can get. It's a credit rating, it'll destroy the bh citizens. We can laugh as much as we want, I'll laugh too, and I laughed thank Bog, but there'll be less smiles for someone who wants to do something in BiH, wants to raise a loan to open up a job, to help in any way. Why? Because you get a list of who was down there, who was trapped with us together. And I wouldn't regret being here for another three days just if they weren't here, so I, so if I can somehow pay someone off, we'll call it a pleasure, but not all BiH citizens suffer just because we'll see what happens to the banks, the loans, the ratings. You'll see what happens with the reprogrammes. I have information, the unofficial ones, which I hope we all got that, 400 million people wanted to invest here. Share it with the number of citizens in BiH, you will see how many marks each person needs to reach every resident. That's what everyone in this country should have felt. No one's gonna feel it. And we're still going to have difficult circumstances to borrow ourselves, that is, to do anything that way. That's it. That's it. That's it. It doesn't play a role whether it burns under your feet or Mrs. Dušanka Majkić or me, or anyone sitting here. We will quickly cool off our feet, how will those with 300 marks of pay cool them off, and the question is how will they have it for the future. They were helped to go on Saturday by some politicians supporting a protest that captured some of the strongest European banking names. Don't stick your head in the sand, it's not a naive thing, it's a serious problem. It's no problem for us to lock ourselves up here and be as long as you want, the problem is that we're closing the door. We're closing the door for whoever's trying to help us. So let's not help ourselves, let's not let others help us. We don't allow it because we're using politics in the wrong direction, because even if we're willing to imprison someone, it means the basic human right to prevent them. Take care of all of you who organized this and all of you behind this. You're sitting here. You're not far. Or if you don't sit here very close, you're in this town. Fortunately, and I'm glad we don't have anything to do with it, because concrete solutions have been proposed, there's not even a cause. The solutions were clear, a unique birth number could be done without any problems. Here in the Sarajevo Circles there were games, now black, now white, now we're going to do this, now we're going to do this, and we're going to give people reason to do what they did. Now you're all gonna get up, and 38 you're probably Mr. Bevanda, so you're up and you've said some things that you can't do this, you can't do this, we can't sanction this, we can't do this, because of this, because of that. Let me tell you, in normal countries, the organizers of such gatherings would end up at a recreation in Siberia or in a summer vacation in Guantanamo, you know. That can't happen with us. It can't happen because whatever you do wrong here, someone can protect you. That's the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that people in the highest positions don't even file criminal charges. It's not my fault that man with that megaphone he was walking around, he was probably walking around for money. It's the ones who paid for it, they're the ones who need to get it. It's not right for them to get through institutions, it's in a few moves, and we all know who these people are. But I have to defend you a little bit, I'm not just going to criticize you. Says the strawberry - it wasn't heroic. It wasn't cowardly either. And tomorrow, I supported your gesture when you went out and tomorrow I would support you again if you would come out, deja veying that I stayed here. To be honest with you, if I had the mechanisms you have, I'd go out and I wouldn't be sitting here for sure. Now they sit and keep quiet some of the politicians, I don't answer so often, but there's, there's a team of people here who report on everything, from the Constitution and the rights, through animal protection, and who knows, I don't know, what other rights, they all know – the economy, agriculture, the social aspect, they all know, now you're quiet, you're clever. Okay, shut up, it's not a dispute, but just so you know, we're in a serious problem, just don't forget it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15441	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15442	I've got a few things I wrote down, I'll stay too long, but I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15443	Anything that doesn't arrive orally in writing...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15444	Here's another sentence. Gentlemen, don't do this anymore, this isn't democracy, this isn't politics, this isn't the life that citizens should live, this is a total disaster. Don't let yourself reach for something like this again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15445	We have two replicas now. I'll probably have to limit the debate. Here, the first replica of Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15446	I thank the chairman. I am really abstaining from reacting or even signing up for discussion because as much as it is for someone's ears, I think we have a lot of things in this period in the state parliament and we are discussing, etc., not diminishing the importance of all of this and what, as I see it, is going to be appropriate, perhaps all day today. But I want to mention, not 39 to defend or rephrase, but I do know that some colleagues, Belkić, colleagues of Domazet, have lost their right of replication, I do not defend, or in their name, but I do have a need and I know that if anything else, my colleague, Domazet, as an economist, would react. I totally agree with my colleague Bursać that there are people here that you give a scalper to they would perform a microsurgery of the little brain because they know everything. But here, I need to say that credit rating is at least what you were talking about, Mr. Bursać. So, I want to perhaps more in the context of one and a reminder and all of this which is due to today's debate and to remind you that we have all accepted in time that we are talking about a difficult economic situation in BiH and have never put it on the agenda of this Parliament, that, in my opinion, there have been very few Protestants and I do not appreciate that there are dissatisfied people in BiH, including most of us sitting here, and with a position in society, and with wages, and with pensions, and with schools, universities, health, etc. So we haven't put it on the agenda yet, we haven't done that story yet. But here's what I'm not opening up right now, but I want to maybe just remind you -- it's not a credit rating, so a colleague of Bursać, what you were talking about for three days, working days, going to the bank all day to solve papers, but I totally agree with the spirit of your discussion. Secondly, I want to remind you why I think it would be good, here I am appealing to all my colleagues and colleagues in this House to refrain from any further discussion. We have enough conclusions, and very good conclusions, I will especially apostrophe fellow Živković who has suggested several good conclusions. But let me remind you -- eight days ago, the EU came to our border, and this Parliament needs to sit down and talk about what we can do on that subject. And I think that really, respecting the importance of what's going on, let's just think a little bit about maybe leaving someone or a conclusion here, let the services do some of the jobs that they need to do and focus on some of the other discussions that are, and the topics that are more important than the priorities they're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15447	If it's not necessary, I'd invite everyone to give up their replicas, and if you want to do it by the Rules of Procedure, I have to go in line. Replica, Ambassador Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15448	We can agree to give up, but I would have to say a few things, offered by Mr Bursać, whom I appreciate, who works with me together in the Budget and Finance Commission. First of all, I don't think this is any kind of disaster, so even the protests aren't a disaster. Protests are legal and legitimate everywhere in every democratic country and the degree of democracy is seen through protests. Here, we have two problems we were supposed to talk about today. The first problem is the protests and to express our anger, anger and that, since some know who organized it all say who organized it by name and last name, we charge all the organizations and all the institutions of the state that didn't do their job, and that way we empty ourselves out. It's the first part of today's meeting. The second one that is much more important and the first one to indicate as the second one is to ensure the conditions to protest 40 again tomorrow and that none of us, from the RS, from the Federation, feel threatened. I was in Washington outside the White House where I saw the ugliest cartoon of the then president of the United States. No one at the end of the line was to say he's like this, he's Republican, he's a Democrats or I don't know what. So we're talking about democratic capacity here. We don't have it. We do not have democratic capacity because we have replaced many things here, because we have replaced the power of executive and legislative power. Our legislative authority has no influence whatsoever, and here I absolutely agree with MP Živković and support his initiative. How many others will accept that is another thing, but the initiative is on the back of something that is our essential, existential problem. So talking here about the monetary crisis, the ratings, is also absolutely ridiculous. BiH is not in a monetary crisis or some kind of rating because of its legislative authority. She is in crisis because of the inversion of power of legislative or executive. Niko Lozančić said – I should be proud to belong to a group of 42 people of 4 million people who got some kind of voice and some possibility to react. My voice is ridiculous. Afraid of this group of people, I wasn't afraid for a moment, I could get out, I got out whenever I wanted, and that's not what I'm afraid of. I'm afraid of something else that's going to happen - hungry people. The moment the hungry people of Bog come, we must hide well in all the mouse holes because we have no answer. This is just one trigger that, in my opinion, should be a warning to us parliamentarians how to provide, with the help of our security organisations, the system, I don't know how either, the system that protests are organised in a legitimate and legal way, and that all people and all MPs can leave the legal Parliament and that no MP from the RS or from the Federation feels insecure. That's the point of this meeting. If we can do it today, we've done a great job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15449	Replica, Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15450	Thank you. I didn't think it would be necessary, but I can see that the intention is to turn this in another direction, and that's dangerous intent, and that's not possible. Although I responded to the replica of my colleague Azra, my colleague Kabil said a few things that I had to react to. It's true in America, Mr. Kabil, but it's also true that they kill a bird when it changes its flight if it moves towards the White House. The doves kill immediately with a rocket, but the pigeon must go where they have determined, and we mean to protest those paths. Is what we can't get, anything else? But you said here it's possible to break into Parliament as a bandit and there's something wrong. It's not okay, they've shown how they do it and who's hurt everything that the American looked Amerikanac. And believe me, I admire them. The country that lifts the carrier when somewhere in the world their citizen is at risk here is giving us a lecture where you and I now convince us that we need to let people break this down here. Now that's a message, because it's democracy. I said at the beginning of the discussion I respect the right of these people to gather and demonstrate, and it must not be taken away from them, but it is thousands of people who cannot blackmail me. There are 5,000 people in this country who think we should all walk on one leg. There must be three thousand people who think we should all wear a earring, that's their right, but that's three thousand, but a million choices, a million choices. And now we're told that thousands by force should... So you know what 41 is called? You know what it's called? We respect these people, but it's a fist, it's a million against them, a million thinks they're wrong, and a million thinks he's wrong. And they showed it because they didn't come, that's a fact. And it is known that in the elections we count in a democratic sense. If you want this to happen then, what my colleague Azra said, I need to react. There is a folk – what a fool spoils what he cannot do to the wise. Wait, why isn't there any information on what was going on upstairs? This Council of Ministers, as it is, both governments and all of them have led to people and bids of 400 million on that day. And the bastards came and chased them away, and let's do it again. And everybody's quiet, there's no information about the consequences of that. Come on, gentlemen, tell me which one in front of Parliament can raise 400 million. Those who have gathered, I don't know the organizer here, I congratulate them, they did what they did, they could have made 400 million. Here we have blown off that 400 million, and now you're praising those who ripped off that 400 million because you have the other 500. Tell us if there's another 500 that we know. That's not true, that's devastating. If that's not there, my colleague Azra, I don't know what she's got. I don't know what she's got. What he's like, you think what's going on in Cairo has nothing to do with the ratings. They're all running there now to get their money. As far as I know, stability is a basic condition for the whole story. And I'm ending up, how did this guy get arrested for throwing eggs at the Federation government building? But he was reportedly arrested for being an egg from the RS, allegedly a flaw. And I will end up, those who forget, and it hurts us, you should know that the latest demonstrations in Banja Luka ended with the shift of the state summit of RS, and so the last demonstrations were completed, the same ones who had the right to demonstrate, to give their opinion. After that, half the state summit was replaced in the evening. And you see here we're told turkey dots don't apply. Now, that hurts us, and we're not going to put up with that kind of inequality. The High Representative went out in pajamas to protect the powerful banker who raised him from bed and told them: you can do what you want from them. It's a very ugly and shameful message from a high representative, a disgraceful one. And while he's deciding that's why it's gonna be... the country and the ratings and everything. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15451	Thank you. Replica, MP Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15452	Well, you see, I have no intention of explaining to anyone, nor giving a lecture on what credit rating is, can, can go online, let it look. Anyway, I have no intention of denying what Mr. Kalabić was talking about. The image of this country is measured among other things by that indicator. It didn't start falling when there was a protest in this country on June 06th, 05th. etc., it has a little longer history. However, there is something else, and that is what someone has allowed here today that parliamentarians are discussing who is for the protests, who is against, who has organized, who should not have organized etc. I want to mention – let or conclude something here, and we have the conclusions of the proposed good in some direction, some competent institutions, state institutions, whatever someone, more appropriate to someone's terminology... and joint institutions and services, joint services as they are called, let them do their job and bring something almost to this Parliament. But let's do things that are much, much more important. 42 And secondly, I think that we must be prepared, all of us here who is and now in this position and those who will come, to spread a little tolerance to the voice of the people. There are so many reasons for dissatisfaction here, I have no intention of accusing anyone, but so many reasons for dissatisfaction, we must be prepared to face tomorrow with perhaps more massive and different demands, protests in this country. But I want to ask you all one more time, don't let us argue here today if someone's defending Protestants, is anyone, etc., we all know what this is about and we don't need to use it to communicate with each other. I urge once again that this debate be brought to an end with some conclusions, or I appeal to a voluntary deviation from discussion, to go in some direction, and to go in the agenda points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15453	The second line was completed by MP Azra Hadžiahmetović. Second replica, Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15454	Here, and I'll end up so no matter what, but I have to react because they're really skilled attempts at clouding this situation, which is not harmless at all. I wasn't talking about the protests that we're dealing with, we know what we're dealing with, those who have failed in the state system regarding the blockade of institutions and crimes listed in these reports. We were doing this and, of course, some people were talking about protests along the way, and those who wanted to blur out were engaged in real protests. But when you want us to deal with it, and we don't have to deal with it, it's a very dangerous story in BiH, I ask you -- what if a thousand, knowing that from today on we're legalized protests, this is the first time in BiH, because these were held by dictators that we have no right to anything, as far as I know, that we had a dictator's orders, but here we seem to be getting rid of it. Is this a signal that in Banja Luka, 200,000 people come out peacefully to Krajina Square and says this is our attitude today, civil peace, whatever you want. Would these thousands be respected by 200,000 people who say – we think they can't go on like this? They will say they are unhappy with life in BiH, they will say they are dissatisfied with the look of their future, peacefully in the most dignified way. Is this a message that we'll be solving things in BiH with protests? If that's a message, I agree with both hands immediately, at the same time. There may be half a million of them, I don't know, I don't know, but it won't end up safe in a thousand if it's a message that it's the way to get rid of these groups of people like that. We can talk that way. Those who don't see how dangerous it is to talk in this unfinished state and to solve things with protests, we know how it always ended and how it could end here.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15455	Discussion, MP Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15456	Thank you. Although I've lost any motive to continue to discuss here after all this, there's a lot of things being said, and here I am to try more of my sense of transmission. I think a lot of people are unhappy with those demonstrations, not what we're talking about here, but the ones who organized them, who prepared them and who probably funded them. Those who expected these demonstrations to produce something that is happening today in Egypt or Turkey, so it didn't happen. So the attempts and exploitation of the unique birth number as the initial chapels, and to remind you that in Turkey the chapel was some object in the park that was to be built, failed. The big investment here was the preparation of these events. Didn't we discuss the role of individual NGOs in defaming Parliament and preparing the terrain for dissatisfaction and channeling citizens' dissatisfaction with the BiH Parliament? And to repeat what I said that night, so we weren't held hostage by those people standing outside, held hostage by BiH institutions, security institutions. Well, Mr. Selimović, who was in charge of security, says - I decided to have it by half past four. So when he decided to be by half past four, we sat down until half four, and then at half four we went out. So why didn't he decide to go out at four in the afternoon like some other guys who got out of here? And now to ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers - what is the conclusion that everyone was doing well, that there is no one responsible for what happened? There's your responsibility, there's the responsibility of the Council of Ministers. How is it possible that Himzo Selimović with such a statement, I decided by when they would be there, still sitting in his office and in his chair? Now, we're talking about institutions, we're not talking about those citizens, they have the right to throw eggs and everything they're allowed to do, and what they're willing to take risks for. Now we'll see if BiH is a legal state, whether those who organized it, those who wrote hate messages, those who warmed up the people, those who publicly boasted downstairs that those who organized it would prevent it from coming out of the building, would it be appropriate? If he won't answer, it's clear that we don't represent anything here. Well, here at the first next session, it would have to be a law for this House to elect prosecutors, precisely because of this situation, so you'll see if he respects the law next time, that prosecutor, when he knows someone can and can replace him. And now to go back to the organizers, I was amazed to hear an ambassador saying that he had visited the protesters four times in the time they held in the blockade of Parliament. Well, there's no state in the world that wouldn't deny that ambassador any further hospitality, it doesn't exist anywhere. So the high representative who says - hold them, or the mayor of Sarajevo who says - persist, do not give in or the director of the Federal Police who is something like that, Lukač or what is called a man, who says something like that. Or the ridiculous explanation of the head of the Cantonal Police who is embarrassing, which is embarrassing and let him think Federally of Sarajevo, because of those institutions I'm talking about, not because of these people and citizens, what does he think we're going to be sitting here if he wants to be the capital of BiH? I, the car that drove me here, didn't let it be in the garage downstairs, but I said, drive it away, because I still have no guarantee and let me tell you I don't feel safe when I get out of this building. And who needs to give me security? Well, he needs the Cantonal Police, as far as I know, and he needs the Federal Police. And when I said that the better conditions for holding a session in Brcko, because Brcko District belongs to both one and the other entity, the SDP made a demonstration the next day to show that you're not safe anywhere. So let's see what can be done. I hope that everyone will draw some conclusions from what our future is and how dangerous this kind of playing fire can be. We have concluded that the Council of Ministers is considering what a safe zone it is that BiH institutions can function without pressure, so let the citizens protest. As in Germany, there is a rule of a mile, that miles around Parliament can't be protested and that there are any riots, such as in other democratic countries, as this can never happen in the Parliament of Britain because the British, English police would not allow it, because they respect their institutions. Here is a 44 concrete proposal to consider what is the area that will allow MPs chosen to make decisions without pressure and without this kind of blackmail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15457	Before I give my word to the next MP, I would like to inform you that I have decided in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and after consulting with the deputies, to limit the duration of the debate within this item of the agenda to 5 minutes and at all the next points of the agenda. The word has an MP, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15458	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I will start with an anecdote, when we have asked a wife – how is your husband, she says – very well. How good? He's not beating me. So, reading the Report of Measures and Activities, it's obvious that the protest was organised precisely by those who were making the Report, because everything was done to make nothing happen. I have received, I believe that you too have received all parliamentarians, we have received a document – a message from parliamentarians from the protesting assembly: "We want to tell you that this assembly is not directed against anyone, that it is not a violent assembly, nor anyone plans to make it violent at any time." True, when I got this, I went down to the protesters, I was out of line, I couldn't pass, my car was and damaged, so this message that was sent is not, and there are the names Šemsudin, Tijana, Zoran, Dalibor, Feđa, signed people, which is not true. Now, this is all telling us, colleague Majkić said -- it's not snowing to cover the hill, but to cover the trail. I'd say it's working here and, in a manner of speaking, toss a trail, toss a mark, toss a mark. So we have a parliamentary majority that has also chosen the Council of Ministers, selected all these actors who should have prevented it from coming to this. I agree here and with Mr. Živković and with these conclusions, here he is, that he is not part of that parliamentary majority and that he is not from his party, his ministers, directors and all those who should have been, and especially, the parliamentary majority and Council of Ministers, Mr. Prime Minister, with respect to everything I give him and in this situation that he was, but I expected at least today, so he can put in question any minister and give us, if the minister is not doing a good job, as he did last time, and even I supported that part, because I saw that the Council of Ministers was not doing well, not doing well, and last time I supported the change in the executive power to do something. However, obviously from the Council of Ministers today, we have no information except that the chairman complains that he cannot do his job, or that certain ministers will not do their job. So this is where the gentleman named Mladen helped me, so the president should tell us, or I'm giving up the room, gentlemen, I can't manage, or you, you, put your finger on it. And it's clear to the citizens, we're ordering here, all the parties from the RS, this is a real ball for them, they don't need a pre-election campaign, they've finished everything, the right to prepare in 2014, the tight lines, everything. And no one can tell me that they're not even the main initiators of this, because this is exactly what comes to hand to those who say that BiH is not a possible state, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, and everything that it is, goes to those who say that, this is a serious question, that BiH is not a possible state. So, therefore, we have a parliamentary majority, we have a six-way as we know how to call it, we have a Council of Ministers, I expect us to get all the information, and it's as if we're in charge of the Security Committee to give us certain conclusions and we're going to make it about it. Thank you very much. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15459	I thank Mr. Lijanović for fitting in on business time for 5 minutes. Replica, Saša Bursać. What, the other one? First. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15460	Thank you, Chairman. Oh, I'm just saying to the predecessor that it's serious, it's serious. How someone who sat here for up to four hours and couldn't get out in any way could have been the organizer of anything. I know you're joking, but please, it's a serious time, don't joke like that. In the replica of my discussion Mr. Kabil clearly said, I was going out whenever I wanted, there you move the ball, I won't tell you anything. Just because of this statement, so it's a very serious thing, it's not even funny and naive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15461	Representative Boško Tomić applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15462	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. Here, you've done a little bit of injustice to us that we're reporting later, but maybe you should have felt the moment to deny everyone. I'll try to fit in in five minutes. The truth changes the concept of exposure a little bit, but first of all, I'd like to say in the beginning that as far as the demonstrations and protests that people organize, none of us in the RS said it was against it. People have the right to express their protests, but they have no right to hold anyone in a blockade. Unfortunately, in the information and reports, no one has even sent diplomatic representations a protest note. Their citizens were held captive, no one said you captured our citizens, you held them. But the citizens, those bankers were physically opposed to our security, there was physical contact between them. They didn't mind that either. It says that these demonstrations were prepared with many more of those places, and here inside they were only those who helped and those who cheered. And that is, the opportunity and the right position were taken when they were children, because here we are all sensitive, when the children were at stake. We shouldn't have missed it. It happened a day before I was completely solved, not completely but it was decided that children could go to treatment. If we miss it, I don't know what we're gonna get ourselves into next. And that's why it was accelerated. Otherwise, the organizer of this, he's not naive at all. You see how he's there because of a few trees in Istanbul or I don't know a building that builds huge masses, so in Brazil, devices, people who swear to football, raise millions of protests, etc. These are designed protests. And in all of this, many helped, helping from the NGO sector to certain media, which in the last year have in such an ugly way defiled the BiH Parliamentary Assembly MPs that it was not normal, it was unbearable, on all sides. These are people who don't do anything, these are people who are guilty of your unemployment, these are people who get only big salaries, these are people like this, they're like that, and it took a lot of time, most of the media, it wasn't just the media from the Federation, they've been from the RS, so lately, this is what Mr. Lozančić was talking about, it was even ugly when you came to a rally to tell someone that you're an MP. I think they all know us. Oh, my people, we're 100,000 people, one MP is elected, and that's how it's allowed, that's how MPs get muddled, so that's not normal. 46 But to a good degree we also bear responsibility for that day when we debated, there was a report of the work of the Council of Ministers. He was Mr. President of the Council of Ministers, he was Mr. Sredoje Nović and he was Mr. Minister, I think. Gentlemen, there's a debate about your report. You're not here. What are we discussing? And as much as you respect us as ministers, that's how citizens don't respect us. Not to talk about the agencies we say, what right you get cars with, etc.? We can't do anything to them because we can't change them. We have brought this Parliament into a very invisible position, we have allowed everyone to speak against it. And it can't be this way, it's the chronology, I all agree with the chronology of events that happened, but I think you should say who the responsible people are. I am also responsible for those who work in security structures who have not been able to carry out the assessment that so many people will gather tomorrow. So why do we have these institutions? There when he sees the arrest, they come at night at 3:00, a man who I don't know why he's accused of, with phantoms on his head, with guns around, they scare the family, and if they only sent a call to a man, a man would come to pick up. So, the demonstration of force doesn't need to be made there, but to assess what's going on in this country. Well, I can't figure out that nobody knew tomorrow would block. Second, they say there were two stolen vehicles. Who can steal a stolen vehicle, why didn't they immediately ask it to be a stolen vehicle? Who has the right to block us in such a way? These are things that the Council of Ministers, agencies, institutions must evaluate, say and come before us and try in a certain way to restore the dignity and dignity of MPs to nothing caused. This salary was not determined by this council, it was determined long before. And now they've all jumped and pressured us. Well, we're gonna do that, and it's not a problem with the pay cut, but let's just let us work with dignity. Because I have to repeat once again,...to fit in, it is unacceptable that no one has objected or sent any protest note to detain the citizens. We've lost a lot of ratings, we've lost our reputation, and that's a shame.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15463	I thank Ambassador Tomić. The word is from MP Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15464	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone present. To say a few words in a slightly different way than it has been discussed so far since the report we received is not enough for me or material to be able to identify from it everything that was happening that night, or to draw certain conclusions in some way and see what it is and what way to do it further. I expect my discussion to be accepted, well-intentioned, because it has truly recognised what it is right now, will recognise what the current problem is, both the peoples and the citizens of the BiH state. We've kind of replaced the thesis here. We're talking about the consequences, the consequences that happened, we're not very detailed, although in a few discussions we felt the need for the cause, which is why we had this condition on June 06th of the current year. What's essentially the cause? I have defined it in this way – that it is a negative political flow that violates the achievements achieved in the construction of the BiH state, in a way the presence of apathy in BiH and the dissatisfaction of citizens. What do I come to the conclusion? Well, we can say it's not that kind of condition, but it seems to me it is. BiH has been stopped on its European path, stopped on the NATO path, stopped in economic strengthening, standards grow, we have been weakened by security, protection and 47 citizens' health. And, of course, this is the condition that is currently being blamed by those who are in power. So the ruling six, the Council of Ministers, those who can solve these problems with their majority in the Parliamentary Assembly. Why did we have this problem with the unique home number, if the Constitutional Court's ruling defined that the unconstitutional names of citizens change, which is why we have entered or introduced a story on the change of the registration areas? Is that how we made ourselves a problem? Why the Court's ruling in Strasbourg, which says to resolve the issue and others, according to Sejdić Finc, later introduced a story on the equality of the Croatian people. So if we hadn't solved these additional questions, we'd probably have solved these two very important things by now. And maybe that protest or some future protests wouldn't be. If all the conditions for the MAP law on the availability of immovable military property, why haven't we solved that issue? Or, now I'm asking the question why is session 06 interrupted? Maybe it's because of this law. Well, now I'm changing the weights a little bit, so I'm transferring it from Sarajevo or Bošnjak to another field. Maybe someone wasn't interested in the MAP. If the need is, and is, keeping the Croatian market and ensuring the export of food products to the EU market, why has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs not completed its task? Why hasn't the Law on Food, Veterinary and Agriculture passed to us in the parliamentary procedure? And if I had led these protests, I would have led them in a different way, but with all these demands addressed both to the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers to solve these very problems. So I'm saying, I don't want to talk about what happened that day, because we don't have enough information and we'll probably have a chance to do it some other time. If this is how we treat the citizens, the peoples and the citizens of this country, and expect that boomerang to come back to us in some way. What am I saying? That these conclusions proposed by Mr. Živković are just going in this direction, I signed up for the discussion before I got the proposal for a conclusion, so we need to reconsider our relationship to the obligations we have. And I hope, if Bog does, that this event that we've had in one positive part will be a reminder to all of us who are responsible for making progress to this country, to... to do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15465	Thank you. So, I as chairman can give a break maximum to an hour. We need an hour and 30-minute break, so I'm asking you to make a statement about that break. Vote now, so who's up for a break until 3:00? I find that for this conclusion we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that the continuation of the session is at 3:00. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the work of the 49th session. 48 The next MP to apply for the discussion is Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go. I remind you once again, all discussions are limited to five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15467	Thank you, Chairman. We, as we all know, still mean the 1st point of the agenda, or the 3rd in the agenda. Since we have not had any comment on the answers received when it comes to parliamentary issues, nor oral questions, here we can say that we have devoted much of the time to this agenda point, and that we will certainly do so in the next half hour, looking at the number of colleagues reported for this debate. So, when we talk about discussing the security of work in BiH institutions that were delivered for the protests held on 05th and 07th June 2013, I, as a representative in this Parliament which I was, means at that time, in the parliamentary building of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and I believe that at that time not only the representatives, not only members of the Council of Ministers, but all the employees of BiH institutions were in a very unpleasant situation, we can freely say in a prison or hostage crisis that occurred by a large number of citizens. When I say a large number, I don't know a thousand, two, three or four, maybe at most at one point. I believe that the gatherings of citizens who were of the best intentions to warn us in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to pass one of the vital laws, which is the Law on the single birth number of BiH citizens, because this law is literally the case for every citizen, every individual, because this individual cannot exercise his basic rights unlike other laws that are in some way not as individual as this law. And that's why I've supported every statement I've made, and then and today, it means all those good intentions of all those people involved in law-making, and they have problems, meaning their dissatisfaction, their protest in that form, whether or not I support it. In any case, I don't support that any movement, any work, any pressures in such a way that we can't normally do our job, and at one point, I don't think, but I do have some way, whether I was also a participant of some conversation, I think these protests were politicized because I was on the plateau at one point when the governor of the National Bank talked to a group of students there who came in good faith to protest, where he arranged with them to date several people of these foreign banks, because we know that it was held at that time and that conference. They wanted to do it but in the meantime these people there who were so little more energetic, not to mention under a dose of alcohol, they wouldn't let anyone out of Parliament. So, here too, there were prisoners of neither guilt nor debt. If it's our fault that we're in this room, a lot of people here had nothing to do with those protests. At one point, I found myself, and I saw that a group said that at some point in the night, over 200 portions of kebabs and several packages of beer came in, which would say that these pastries had some kind of logistical support and support, and also that group of people, representatives of the sitting, who were at the high representative's meeting, at about 1 o'clock when they came back from the talks couldn't secure those protesters, there means the free or normal exit of those foreign citizens who were in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building. It is in addition to today's discussions that, in addition to the real need for people to sit down to achieve their basic 49 human rights, that the protest was somewhat later politically conducted, supported, and even what they say, from the BiH institutions themselves. I think the most constructive discussion here was a fellow Kabila who, did he say in a way that we analyzed that situation, brought our anger out, but from this we need to learn some lessons, certain conclusions. Much of the conclusions are on the trail here, what I think Mr Živković has suggested, but the question is also the valid parliamentary majority that is most responsible, together with the executive authority, and the question of the responsibility of all those who could prevent it and did not unfortunately prevent it. This Parliament can't do that, but I think we can do a lot in that direction, but we need to question ourselves whether we're ready to do that, so that they possibly bear appropriate sanctions...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15468	Thank you, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15469	... could have prevented and not those who eventually encouraged these unkind events around the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15470	Thank you. The word has an MP named Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15471	I thank the Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen. I am glad that Parliament has continued to work because we have a lot of work to do in the coming period. Meanwhile, during the break we had, there have been very large events in our closer environment, the Republic of Croatia has become a full member of the EU, Serbia has been given a green light for the start of negotiations, unfortunately in BiH there has been a stalemate that is the result of an unsettled situation within our country, and in particular of the poor situation at lower levels of the authorities facing the budget deficit, unemployment and all other problems that follow the work, so lower levels of government, and above all I think of entities. Such a situation has also led to protests that we have witnessed, when it comes to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I am not going into the justification of the protest at all, the fact is that BiH citizens are increasingly living worse and I am just surprised that it has not happened before and that it has not occurred to a greater extent that people are rebelling against the situation they are in. The way the protests in question have been followed by what we call them, the BiH security agencies, is very interesting to me and I do not want to enter into the justice of these agencies in their information, in their public statements, etc., pushing mothers with children, babies in a wheelchair, etc., and ignoring the fact that they have not done their job, or that they have sent a message that they are not capable of doing what they are responsible for. Neither are they to the end to blame, the compromises we make in BiH are to blame. I'll remind you of the police reform, how much compromise is done and we've seen what we've got, we've got a reformed police force that can't respond to their tasks. When I tell the police, I mean the entire security sector. This leads us to conclude that there is no need to compromise in BiH, and it strengthens me in my intention to never again support any reform just to be reformed. I think it's better that we live in a society like this for 100 years before we mature and make real changes in the Bosnian Herzegovina society. I think it's much better than to make an illusion of democracy, an illusion of a developed democratic society, as we have made an illusion of the security that has spread. This isn't the first case in which it happened that the agencies didn't answer properly. I'll remind you of the protests when the Federation government building was set on fire, then the case where Mevlid Jašarević shot at the American Embassy. And that's when people got killed just because the D.A. couldn't agree whose jurisdiction it was. A similar situation was, therefore, in this case. And that's what happens, so when reforms are done to see reform rather than essentially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15472	The word has an MP Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15473	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests. Here, let me contribute a little bit to this debate. Most of us were on the 06th of June together, which they would say together we hung out, nothing to blame, until the early morning hours. I expected that there would be a little more collegiation between us today and that we would be a little more open, which would say men talk about these topics and tell ourselves where the problem is and what's the truth. Our behavior today, I think, not that it has taught us the brains of these events, but I think it deepens us even further. The basic problem of BiH, it seems to me someone had just told me, which things are not called by their name, the name they deserve. BiH citizens have many reasons for dissatisfaction. And if you look at the socio-economic situation, then I would expect them to be in front of entity governments, not in front of our government and our Parliament, where we share about 6% in public spending, and therefore there are no problems here either. What's the problem? The problem is that we have the structure of a country that is unsustainable, and let's say that, the problem is in a basic document of this country called the Constitution, and we keep our eyes closed in front of these actions, we just deepen the gap between us. It is unfortunate that one Parliament or one government cannot function normally, cannot communicate, the prime minister cannot go to the meeting, chairing the College or, you fellow MPs have also been unable to get out of the building, we are doing our job, and God Bog we are still under pressure to make decisions. Not to comment on those 150 people who have been working to help the BiH donor conference that he left behind. Most of these people I know, I even hung out with them for a while trying to relieve them because I saw they were very worried. When we get back to our agencies, then, here you are, saying that I don't think we should comment much. We had events in front of the American Embassy where there was no idea who had to do anything, that circus lasted an hour, but unfortunately it's been years or two since then, and we haven't moved from a dead end. On the other hand, what I was particularly concerned about, some of the international institutions spoke one, for me, in a recognizable language or language that reminded me "no one should beat you". I know that citizens have the right to protest and everywhere in the world and should protest here as well, but of course in a legal way. Not like they did, not to beat people, not to challenge health-threatening people to receive medical help, and to be one, on their part, civilized way of acting. Encouraging these people on such a thing reminded me, and you know what I associate, and that's never good, it didn't historically end well for that country, I wouldn't want it to be any similar to that and that it ends similarly for BiH. What I think is necessary in all of this, and I think that some of the conclusions and suggest that we really properly analyze, draw conclusions, take all the responsibility for all the failures that were, that's the least we can do, otherwise in every other variant we go to the hands of those who don't want to sit in this House. Someone here called it a little bit different, and here I am going to put it in writing, and I don't think there's any need. If we want to push this country into division, then we go on as we started, and I don't think anybody's doing well. And once again, I'm going to confirm that the parent's number is politics. Politics, I'm telling you, HDZ one and the other HDZ supported the law, they also supported previous laws. We publicly said, Mr. Ljubić for a pay phone, any variant that gets the required majority, we stand by it because it is not a place for politics when it comes to this sensitive category of citizens, and here we have seen that it has not even been recognised. We didn't get one moment, in any public in any media, to transfer that information, but it remained as something irrelevant. And if that were the basic point of the situation with the law then it would be quite recognized and it would be published in some way and admitted, is it, to say these people support this law, there's no reason that at least we can keep them out, but it was, some thought, they thought they were carrying some changes, so they got a little bit of awkward, so they had to go back to the building. Here, I think we should start with the elementary things in this country, the correctness, the changes in the Constitution, make the country the way everyone does, and really this is the country we can and should live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15474	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15475	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I had no intention of speaking, but as the debate moved on and all that I've been able to hear so far, it still put me in a position to say just a few sentences. I think this Parliament, I'm part of it, didn't realize what his job was and what his job was in the Bosnian Herzegovina state and the Bosnian Herzegovina society. Today we have acted, and these days, too, very selfishly and we are only discussing one aspect of a major problem that we have in BiH. It is certain that the issue of security, the demonstration in front of Parliament, the blocking of Members of Parliament, foreigners here in Parliament, is a matter to discuss, but this is Parliament and he is not here to discuss only himself and his 52 positions. We have an obligation to discuss all the social issues that are being raised before us and should have put a completely different order of things here in this debate. The first thing that should have been discussed, in my opinion, is the demands of people who have been publicly told and sent to us by members of Parliament, the Council of Ministers, and that throughout BiH, not only here in front of this parliamentary building. And that's why we actually exist. There is both the position and the opposition, but there is both civil society and Parliament cannot be party to anything and cannot be party to anyone in this country. Parliament is Parliament and it is for everything and it is its role. We forgot it because we didn't start doing it. Then why, a month after the blockade, after the protest, we didn't work, why wasn't there a session? That's also a question. We were all in the same security situation that night, no less secure or insecure, none of us here and there was nothing different, we were all in the same position, which is the problem, and only then are we talking about these things that we talked about here today, because people have the right to protest, have the right to non-violent peaceful protests to show what they think, there's no one right to block, so no one to understand each other, and to see how the institutions have acted. But that's some order of things. Putting this last thing as the main thing and the only thing in the discussion today is something that's inadmissible. Let's see why there wasn't a single number law. That's the key question. Since 13 January 2013, why is it not available when the Constitutional Court has put Article 5 out of force? The law on single birth numbers? Has the Council of Ministers here proposed one law that is exclusively in the spirit of implementing the Constitutional Court's verdict? The Council of Ministers did not do this but twice or once, reputing the Bosniak people's ministers, propose a law here that, in addition to the implementation of the rulings, engulfs itself another issue which is actually a controversial issue, which is a change of registration areas in BiH, which is not required by the Constitutional Court. And that's what the chairman of the Council of Ministers should tell us. I'm sorry he's not here, he says he did everything on his own, that the law was proposed. It is a proposed law proposed by the Ministry that includes something that is not a request for judgment. Why did he not, as chairman, say, stop a little, please, the verdict requires and that, we want to respect that and let's just refer that law to parliamentary procedure. So that's the point. Furthermore, we people are under pressure from people you claim to belong to only one people, so under the pressure of people here in front of Parliament here, we have a solution as a temporary solution that suits RS politicians. The president of the SDS has proposed an identical law here in a parliamentary procedure like that temporary decision. And let's do a little bit, so let's open up the problem from all sides, so let's talk about everything. And that's what I wanted to say, here's a message in my discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15476	I must, for the sake of correctness, say, when it comes to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, he has delivered to me a written act informing me that today, therefore, he will attend the 49th session from 10.00 to 14:00 hours, and that after 14.00 hours he has a protocol obligation to visit the president of the Republic of Croatia, Ivo Josipović. So I'm obliged to share this information with my colleagues. An emissary, Aleksandra Pandurević, signed up for it. Here you go. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15477	Thank you, Chairman. Given the long agenda, I'll try to be as brief as possible. I'm sorry I don't see the Director of the Police Body Coordination Directorate here whose report we have on the table. I don't see many things in that report, Mr. Fen, that you are here, but the signature says Mr. Selimović and there's some oral orders. The report first said the protests were unannounced to the Canton Sarajevo MUP. All right, I agree, they weren't organized under the law. However, earlier, a day earlier was a meeting of the Council of Ministers, and all the media were buzzing about how the protesters stayed here, that they would sleep and that they would not go. Well, it's impossible that no one in the Directorate saw that news and knew what happened and had to assume what could happen here, not only from the Directorate, but also from the Canton of Sarajevo, etc. Another thing, Mr. Selimović said in his report that he issued an oral order on the ban on leaving the building for security reasons because some people, I think, are five persons, physically attacked, beaten, even an ambulance where there was an officer who had a pre-infracture condition attacked by demonstrators. Some colleagues here claimed that day that our safety wasn't compromised. So either Mr. Selimović is not telling the truth or in that case if he is not telling the truth means we were his hostages, or colleagues who claim that we were safe are not telling the truth. That's what we need to determine, see who's not telling the truth here. I don't believe anyone in this building, from these two buildings they're working in, capable of anything, called that he's headed out, did those down to the women, the children. I'm also sure those mothers and those children wouldn't hurt anyone from here. But if Mr. Selimović claims he was afraid for the safety of those who leave this building, it means that he identified some faces downstairs or that he had some information about persons who could do something and who showed that they could do something. I'm interested in who those faces are. As someone who's been here, I have a right to know. I have the right to know who put my freedom to decide, my freedom to act here. Do these people, if they've already come across these workers who've been coming out of this building, even if they've filed criminal charges, and it's also criminal acts. I also expect us to see here and invite the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council to one of the next sessions, to see how it is possible that the prosecutor does not know BiH Criminal Law, that he does not know of its member, who treats the work that happened here as a kidnapping. How could the prosecutor not know Article 192? A BiH criminal law relating to a person under international legal protection? Is that the prosecution has broken off, is it no longer part of this system or is this the work of the Prosecutor's Office the result of everything we've been saying for years, or what the distinguished colleague Majkić was saying about the role of the attorney general that day. Let's get things cleaned up. Are we going to make BiH a legal state, or do we want the state of anarchy, so where do we go? I think we should be a legal state where everyone should be responsible for what they're doing. Niko one disputes the right of protesters and the right to demonstrate, but these demonstrations must be in accordance with the law. Here, and the students in Banja Luka, in a very peaceful and dignified way, didn't even block the government, were dissatisfied, or held anyone hostage, went out on the street, said what they had, everyone understood their message, and who has something against it? No one's against that, right? As far as I'm concerned, I have to look around if I have any more, here's a little more time, my dear colleague Džaferović here said that we have acted selfishly and that we are only discussing one aspect. Mr. Džaferović, I've never walked the RS like this month. And you know what citizens 54 from Banja Luka to Trebinj, what they told me. Don't give in, don't go there. And so when you mention protesters that they represent demonstrations in all of BiH, it's not true. Behind what was happening in front of this building is not the citizens of the RS, and they are asking only one thing of us here to protect their interests and the interests of the RS. And we together have to make solutions and look for compromises so that it's not all at the expense of anyone. And I don't see why it bothers you, and I have to say that your party played primarily with a unique home number to manipulate children to force certain solutions from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15478	Thank you. There's a word, second vice president, Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15479	Thank you, sir, but when I announced you I was saying Deputy I didn't stress the other one, but I don't mind. My colleagues and fellow MPs. What counterpart Džaferović said was not intended to answer, but he urged me to answer it. So, exactly his argument when he said that we were discussing a dimension here. We are discussing one item on the agenda bearing the title – Discussing information on the security of work in BiH institutions that was delivered for the protest held on 05th to 07th. Of course through the agenda and through the agendas and so on, and the questions that are ahead of us to solve them, we're going to talk about these essential things that they're burdening us with and why we haven't actually been able to pass the Single Parent Number Act. And I have nothing else to do but repeat what I said the day before the break, the morning we set the agenda, actually here because of the unresolved fundamental issues of the relationship between the three peoples to BiH, through every law or through almost every law on the agenda, and among other things, the Single Parent Number Act, the issues that have not been resolved in BiH from the Kutilier plan to the day. And that's the point. When we're able to deal with these essential things and if we're able to do it alone, that's the question in front of us. But, secondly, I supported the law that came from the Council of Ministers because it was adopted in the way the laws were adopted in the Council of Ministers but for another reason. Because the law delivered by the Council of Ministers, whose creator is the Ministry of Civil Affairs, has dealt with yet another issue which was not explicitly sought by the Constitutional Court, but is the content of the law unconstitutional? I say it's not, I claim it's in accordance with the Constitution. And I supported it because it solves the problem of a unique birth number, and those questions, ours, so to speak, of a different view of the existing Constitution, the structure of the country, etc., may no longer bother anyone but me, is, will come these questions in order, I am convinced. So that's why I said that I was ready to support this other law that was passed by a group of MPs and solved the problem. Therefore, and we understand when the Council of Ministers adopted the decision, it was not adopted under pressure. At least I didn't know there was going to be a demonstration at the time. Maybe someone knew here. So, the Council of Ministers has solved the problem temporarily and I am convinced that there have been no of these events between 05 and 07 so that perhaps even to this day Parliament will also adopt the law. Thus, these events must have delayed the solution to this one problem at the very least. 55 Now, of course, I am not being demagogue, etc., so citizens have the right to be dissatisfied and also bitter that some issues are not adopted, and I advocate that they are being resolved because life means life cannot wait for the solution of these topics, here are those which have not been solved for 20 years and have not been resolved throughout the centuries here in BiH and we have to solve them, not because of the pressure of citizens, but because of the future of us and our children, grandchildren, this country, etc., but these are issues that cannot be resolved from session to session. And the essential question is here, and this point concerns actually the responsibilities of agencies that should have guaranteed the implementation of legality. My colleague Pandurević seemed to quote the law. 192, which refers to foreigners. I think 138. Law(?) talks about... the movements of MPs, members of the College, members of the Bureau, Government, etc. which have been threatened from 3 to 5 years. ...the essential things to discuss. Furthermore, not to talk about the Hague behavior of the mayor of Sarajevo who was supposed to be a good host to all of us here in the city, despite being not responsible for direct security. These are all the things that should be critical here at least, so to speak, well-observed, and the competent agencies need to take appropriate measures to finally get us all here together, we trust those agencies. And what you're saying is that we were all safe and equally uncertain, so I can even agree with that, but I also can't agree that the feeling of everyone was the same, you know. If at one point we have information that they came under the window, so to speak, the radical groups of Railwaymen and the Sarajevo Horde of Evil and manijak, let my sense of security or sense of security of someone from Banja Luka and yours not the same as yours might not be the same as mine that in Shiroki Brijeg under the window were fans of širok Škripari etc. So we're talking about feeling, I'm not talking about the essential state of security or uncertainty. And for me it's not even a fundamental question, I was ready to come to Parliament tomorrow, I wasn't afraid of protesters, but it's a fundamental issue of law enforcement. And that's what we're discussing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15480	I thank the Vice-President. I have to say that I made a small mistake when I called the first deputy, then I had no choice with another deputy in the announcement, but.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15481	No problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15482	Okay, we understand each other. Replica, Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15483	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. My replica refers to the attitude of Honorable colleague Aleksandra regarding playing with the Code of Parent Number by here's the SDA. Look, there is a parliamentary majority here that has taken responsibility for the management of the BiH state's processes and governance. In that parliamentary majority, it is not the SDA. Just as you have adopted the Law amending the laws on communication, the Law on, here is an amendment to the Election Law, the Law on Public Procurement, etc., etc., you could have so in a very simple way, you have the majority, to vote and to amend the Law on Single Parent Number. However, we are dealing with the consequences, especially after these 56 events since 06 June, all started with various press statements, etc., in order to enjoy the public and of course we now have consequences. And what exactly is the cause? The cause is an attempt to plant a cowardly egg through changes and additions to the Code of Origin by, here is the Ministry of Civil Affairs. As a result, such a proposal for law went if the Constitutional Court, or the Constitutional Court’s verdict, was quite different. Therefore, there should be a cause to be sought and I think that it is actually the cause of all of this precisely in the unprincipled proposal to amend the Code of Origin. And of course, here I will take my chance this half-minute or minute to say that I like the proposal of my colleague Živković's conclusion the most and I would be willing to support and support except for the area where they actually get one dimension that is not principled, and that is to look for information and responsibility only for those agencies where, here let me think freely, are headed by Bošnjak. Why isn't the information requested, let's say, by the director of the SIPA, and by the Director of the Border Police, and by. Maybe the demonstrations here were organized by people who came across the border, and we don't know that, because, let me see that day, you've witnessed, that many have said that there are some people from Nis, from Belgrade, from Zagreb, and I don't know from where. So we need some comprehensive information, and of course we need the responsibility of those who brought us into this situation. So, if there's a possibility that we can intervene on these conclusions, we might be willing to support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15484	Another registered MP, and then we have two ministers who also want to say something. The word has an MP, Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15485	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would hesitate after all these speeches, criticisms, examples, insights. Of course, every man very subjectively accepts everything that is happening to him, especially what is happening in his immediate surroundings. I was here that night, too, believe me. And most of all, in the first place, I laughed a little bit when I heard that expression that was more rapidly entrenched in our heads that this was a hostage crisis, so then I thought a little bit more closely so I... people probably don't really know what that term means, the newbies who, the older ones remember, came up after that massacre at the Munich Olympics. The word hostage crisis is very dangerous and it's not responding to this situation, believe me, I'm telling you honestly. You can't call this a hostage crisis. It's a much, much more dangerous thing. This useful vocabulary has just been created because of this danger that leads to what is now known as the global hostage crisis. The older ones know very well what it's about. Fearing your own people and responsibilities in front of that people is more worrying about me. I'm just wondering if this is where my line is coming from, the one I said, we forget that we are MPs here, we represent every man and woman in BiH, every citizen of BiH. This is our country, and our country, and our country, and we are state, but the people, the MPs, have chosen us here. And I think those people out there who were, I didn't count their blood cells, but it seems to me that a lot of them are here, but it seems to me that it's both our people or maybe it's not, or maybe you think it's not our people, but some Martians, aliens, what the hell. People had their frustrations, the trigger was that unfortunate, and I'd say, the damn way we tried to solve 57's unique parent number. Of course people are the most sensitive to children, we often talked about it here, and it became a good excuse for what happened to someone. Frustrated people use every opportunity to express their frustration in the way that is available to them. They were made available that way. And what happened then, so it's something else, it shouldn't have happened. I still believe, although I do not like Dayton BiH, I once explained to you why, I respect and appreciate it and I will do it as long as it exists, if we base our work and our representation of the people in the BiH state through parliamentary democracy, and it should be, then the sanctity should be this building. And that's what hurts me, in a very ugly way, what's called the State Parliament has been dirty. Who's to blame? Now we're getting to it. Look at what the settings are like here today. How many angles all of this is looked at and how much it's being abused from. It is taken as a clagvort for some other performances, and even until then, the illusions that have become a threat to the secession of the RS, so you Bošnjak burn under your feet. I don't know Bog, just so someone can explain to me what's burning under my feet, so let's get on with the Dayton Peace Accords. It's no good what we abuse. But if what was done is done, the police structures and all the military structures in every country have so-called. the principle of subordination by vertical and horizontal. We have every right to seek an investigation, we have every right to seek, if any law has been broken, to initiate what needs to be initiated, and to do so by the authorities that need to do so, and this should be done by our work here in Parliament, and we should continue with normal work. I'm still deeply convinced that anyone who was in this building was not threatened by any physical danger. People, don't be angry, what this head is a few, is about those away from the one... some kind of call the danger that threatened us. I didn't even think about her, after all. But please once again, let things go the way some of you here have very cleverly explained and said. Let everyone do their job, we keep doing our job. And I am deeply convinced that even that people, regardless of the group that tried to twist it, highly and appreciated and respected their Parliament, this is his Parliament, this is the Parliament of his country, his country and his country. We pride ourselves on being a democratic state and we must respect it. If we didn't respect that, then someone would take this down. Someone tried it once, so it didn't work out, and now no one's gonna do it anymore. A reminder that we're doing a better job should be what we've seen, lived and heard. And we, I really ask you, let us do what we are chosen to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15486	I thank my colleague Bašić. The word is, here we go in a row, Mr. Nović, the minister of civil affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15487	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs. I'll look back very briefly. I listened carefully to everything that was said today, and I feel at least like saying two, three sentences about some issues that have been discussed today. Of course, the causes you might know how to say something, but it's not my way of talking about something that's in the jurisdiction of my colleagues, both at the end and yourself. Where I have room to say it, I'll say it, and I said it. On the work of course and police structures, you may also be able to say what 58 conduct was or is, about reasons and causes, but I will refrain because you are Parliament, you are MPs, you have the necessary information and I am confident that you will also make adequate conclusions that they, who need to implement, and implement. But he is deeply offended, dear Mr. Mehmedović, that this is how you say that this is the Ministry's laying cowardly eggs to you, to you MPs. I just can't believe you said that about this phone booth. I would just like to remind you, the Law on a unique home number of two years ago has uniquely passed in the Council of Ministers where your ministers voted, SBiH ministers, SNSD ministers and all ministers unanimously accepted and directed the law into this House. And then don't say that the law wasn't in line. I don't know which time I'm supposed to say that the Federal Interior Ministry has supported that law, the RS, the Cantonal Sarajevo. I'm not going to count who was in charge of those ministries back then, but certainly no one was putting pressure on them, and that law you know what fate he had. It's a law of citizenship. And there's the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision. And he uniquely passed the Council of Ministers and was on your benches. He didn't make it. It's a travel document law. Why he didn't pass, also uniquely delivered. The law on religious holidays established by religious leaders, therefore not by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the religious chiefs in BiH gave and we forwarded here to this Parliament. And that law has fallen too. And I regret that all these laws have fallen. The discussions we had on some other laws, the honourable MPs know very well that we have opened public debates, we have not come to a solution, so it does not mean that we will not come to other laws as well. Is it the laying of a coward's egg that respects the Constitution of this country? If that's, okay, I am for it. If the BiH Constitution says that BiH consists of two entities and Brcko District, I will respect it again. If the Constitutional Court has annulled Article 5, so Article 5 is annulled and it does not exist, the lawyers know well, and we will discuss the reasons for what the Constitutional Court has said, the lawyers will certainly not agree easily. And that's what I agree with. But there is no Article 5. Is it a shame that you're proposing a new member of the 5th, which one ministry suggests Parliament should consider and accept or not accept, my Bog. You didn't accept. Nothing I or my Ministry resented. But don't say we're setting it up. I've lived through a lot of ugly days since the demonstration. Well, some of these benches also suggested that protesters should come to my house. It's hard to handle. If that's the solution, then we'll find it easy, then we'll find it easy. I have never said anywhere that you are somewhere individually, nor partyly refused to vote for this or that reason, it is your both democratic and parliamentary right. But to honor me, and at the end of my ministry, not my ministry, I'm just under the circumstances of the ministry right now, and as long as I'm here, I'm going to fight for legality. It's not the only one, it's not the first, and I believe it's the last law where we've very much complied with all the provisions in accordance with the Constitution of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15488	The word has a minister of security in the Council of Ministers, Mr. Fahrudin Radončić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15489	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs. 59 I'll really try to be as short as possible and say everything I want to say in those five minutes. I think we can all agree here that everyone in this country, as well as everywhere in the world, has the right to their social, economic, political and other dissatisfaction and to express it in one democratic way without the right to interfere with the freedom of movement of others. After all, demonstrations are, as you can see, with much more serious consequences, part of the global process rather than just something happening in BiH. If we are officially the first poor country in Europe, if we have 560-70,000 unemployed, if we have 52,000 and slightly more blocked giro accounts of companies from which the full budget is clear to you that citizens will rebel, especially when they see that there is a Serbian train passing by, before that, a Croatian train, a Montenegrin train, etc., on their way to the EU. Without any desire to open any kind of controversy I'll give you some data from which you might best see where part of the problem lies and whether it was all, as they say, the Bosniak udurma. This is a request that we received, i.e. my deputy on the first day of the protest and signed by Šemsudin Maljević, Dijana Cvjetičanin, Zoran Ivančić, Dalibor..., Feđa Štuka. I think that in some sense, that paper with that, with a message from parliamentarians from protesting, together as it's officially called, says there was no one-national gathering, and I don't think there was a gathering that could be treated as a gathering against any nation. Here I'd like to open another kind of story and it's called... the security sector. In RS, the sector is very unique, the minister has all competences, there is a very precise hierarchy. Unfortunately, in the Federation, and in BiH, the situation is completely different. You have the so-called so-called. independent committees which manage commissioners and commissioners may respond or do not respond to whom they already wish. And we built a police frankenstein where we simply have a responsibility without an address. There's no SIPA right, I want to inform you about it, although I suppose you all know that, to intervene. I cannot, as Minister of Security or the Council of Ministers, change even if he is guilty, and if he is considered guilty, Mr Himzo Selimović as director of the Police Body Coordination Directorate because he has his Independent Committee and you chose him, I did not choose him. You chose that committee, you gave up that the Ministry of Security or the Council of Ministers has the competence to replace any director of the law enforcement agency. So we need to make a deal. When we need competences, then we say why we don't have them, when we're in some cold regime, we're afraid to transfer jurisdiction, not to say state-level, but to the Council of Ministers or a specific ministry. I mean, this isn't our first event, and we have some lessons to learn. We had a very violent attack on the Federation government a year ago, I don't know, a year, two days ago, when she was stoned, we had the disabled entered the Federal Parliament, right? We had a Jašarević case that is incomparable to this, but it is a comparable situation that is not known, when it comes to the Federation, and that is where I want you to really understand us without having to minimize anyone and my responsibilities, so believe me, it is the easiest thing to believe, that you do not know whose sidewalk is and whose street it is. In particular, this building is provided by the Police Body Coordination Directorate and is solely responsible for the sidewalk. As far as the street is concerned, Canton of Sarajevo and the cantonal commissioner who didn't want anyone to answer the phone alive. You know what's most tragic – there's no reason to answer it. You know what's gonna happen to him? Nothing. Not to mention cases that people who didn't want to answer our phone were answering some embassies and offering to come in and release only their citizens and... the others. And it does, of course, because you have such a situation that we have full independence of agencies, that, you, I am also party president here, you are party representatives, all parties are fighting for voters in a way that promises security. But I'm responsible for telling you that none of us can guarantee anything, 60 we can cheat on citizens, we don't have mechanisms, I'm talking about the state level and the Federation, that we can keep any promise to the citizens when it comes to their safety. It's in the hands of, responsibly, the phatomic independent committees. They are elected by cantonal parliaments, elected by the Federal Parliament, one hand by the Independent Committee elects this Parliament. We don't know, I apologize to the gentleman who sits there, I don't know 90% who these people are, whom they represent, where their legitimacy is, whether it's electoral legitimacy, scientific, professional, etc. I'm saying this in the context of responsibility, potential responsibilities or true responsibilities, as you decide, of our executive law enforcement agencies. I also really want to call for some kind of tolerance here. What happened in Sarajevo, I have to tell you, I wasn't in the middle of the circumstances because I was wearing gold police badges at the border police, I'm sorry I wasn't here. You least know it from the inside, you've probably been told by people, I've been hanging out on TV all night or that day, and maybe I've been the only politician who's called on citizens not to join, who I've co-ordinated some things that, to be honest, are completely out of my jurisdiction. We've heard that evening with President Dodik and many others wanting to do something. So much disorientation, so much fear of responsibility and so much legal irregularity enables people to behave in very dramatic situations as easily as they do, which is to run away from responsibility. And I think that from this, as the Democrats finally learned from this, all the gatherings were very, very civilized, that none of the papers remained from them, we will have to learn that at least at the level of the agencies at BiH level, we will come up with some options for them to react in the event of the need for automation and not to wait for someone to call them by phone because they are limited to freedom of movement or because they happen to be minister. And we'll see that as the Council of Ministers, we'll make some suggestions before the Council of Ministers as Ministry of Security. I am very grateful today to the people of the RS and others who have come and thanked you for this kind of tolerance, but I remind you there have been many more difficult cases where Bošnjak have also shown a kind of tolerance. You have a very dramatic and difficult event in Banja Luka, right, when there was the laying of the stone foundation of Ferhadia ten years ago. The man was stoned, he was killed, seven, eight buses burned. We also found democratic tolerances to go completely to meetings, I don't know, the RS Assembly, etc. It seems to me that here is the point of everything that, with a fully accurate finding of responsibility, if agencies have failed, of a systematic state recording for the future to see what we can do at the level of changing powers or tasks of state law enforcement agencies, that we do not enter any entity jurisdiction, because we are obviously all sensitive here, we learn how to do future. I responsiblely tell you we will be the easiest in the future to provide corridor for any kind of civil rebellion or demonstration. Here's the point, I'm now saying more as party president not as a security minister, that we hear the voice of our people, that we're looking for a way out of this political and economic situation, to see what we're going to do with a few major political challenges, is that JMB, is that military property, is that something third? And I think the key thing is that this parliamentary majority takes responsibility for the situation in BiH and that we simply try to turn to the economy as soon as possible. Don't let us have any illusions, what happened so slowly went out in September is going to burst. It's better to be active, to go to our people than to run away from them. I think it's the only right option. Everything else leads us to something no one wants. 61 And to finish only with half a sentence, I saw in haste these proposals made by Mr. Živković, I have one small reserve – whether the BiH Parliament can suggest criminal responsibility for prosecutors who have not done anything. I'm afraid it's a combustion that won't be remembered. Of course, I have no right to interfere with your decision. Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15490	Replica, deputy chairman, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15491	Thank you. Namely, I will give up all of those discussions that I wanted to cover and some who were involved in my presentation and some of the newspapers I've heard, here's especially from the last presentation that I can only indicate - that in September I'll hear the voice of my people or citizens, they'll scream, they'll go towards their people, etc., and so on, it means that I'll give up all these discussions. I'd have a lot to say about that. I'll just koncentrisati on the conclusions. These conclusions, which I have suggested, I think they include some of the biggest things we've ever wanted to say here, and that's to put and sort things out in BiH in place. I do not see in conclusion 4, dear colleague Šemsudine, that only those agencies and institutions where members of the Bosniak people are directors, but I have listed all the institutions and I recognize some of them, including the rest, and members of my people. As far as I'm concerned, here's only the last one, the remarks of Honorable Minister Radončić, I don't think this is any kind of curiosity, you know. We as an institution, more specifically as individuals, have the right to file criminal charges against anyone in BiH as damaged persons. Why would that be curiosity? Couriosity is in this country when the prosecution opens an investigation against Parliament and on the subject of a single birth number. It's the courage in this country and no one here is talking about it. And you're preventing or thinking that you should prevent my civil rights, as a damaged person, from filing criminal charges, so let them see if there's any grounds or no grounds. Let the process be opened, let someone in this country say it wasn't a crime to have someone, including the MPs, but also to foreign citizens banned from this building. Let someone make it clear and loud that there is no crime here, and we should also know that we are withdrawing our responsibilities. I call on my fellow MPs – please propose the laws in force in this House, do not listen to suggestions from international representatives who, through their advisers and embassies at the High Court and Prosecutorial Council or through those you said were reporting to international embassies, do not allow us to pass a law on prosecutors where this Parliament will elect and these prosecutors and that they know then who they need to answer the phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15492	Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15493	Well, I also have to be the chairman of the Joint Commission and as the person who was here that night. I know, Your Honor, that you're a new man and that you probably didn't have a chance to get 62 into all the pores of the system you're in. I know that, but I believe you had to learn one thing, and that thing is about your basic jurisdiction, which is only one, which is to coordinate the security sector. It's the only task that the Ministry, which has eight, has about 200 people, is the only task it has. And what I expected from you is that, as a man who at least showed that he wanted to make some kind of change, the first thing I expected from you that you would do anything to fix the situation in that sector, which means that you would analyse nine security agencies and that you would see which of them makes sense or makes no sense, that you would say that you would suggest that the funds be transferred where it makes sense and taken from those who don't, and especially what I expected was that you would make a plan to act as security agencies under emergency circumstances. It was embarrassing to listen to Himzo Selimović the other day on the Joint Commission for Defence and Security. Someone told a man - you have to lock them up there and you can't let them go until we tell you. It took me a long time to figure it out. So the High Representative, the Chief Prosecutor, the Minister of Security, then everyone else. Why didn't SIPA work? SIPA would have acted if the chief prosecutor had said that there were elements of the crime. Since he said there were no elements of the SIPA crime she had no right to react... So your responsibility is that you didn't create anything, I know that you found the abandoned ministry, disastrously, all of this is familiar to me, but I expected you to do something in the meantime. ... you say you've been to the badge. Well, please, the block was two days, so you haven't been on the badge for two days. And in the end, I guess it's a completely irrelevant thing to holding a hostage in Parliament. So, I have to say that it's my disappointment as a man of the greatest, and that's why I'm sorry that, instead of one good cooperation, we got this echo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15494	Replica, MP Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15495	Thank you, Chairman. I wouldn't really want to discuss it, but there's a lot of things being said today, just about the legal issue Mr. Minister pulled. In fact, Mrs. Majkić took my word that... the authorities of the co-ordination of police structures in BiH. It is an important function and there is one authority, but when it comes to the cantonal police, which is responsible, therefore local jurisdiction, it is local jurisdiction, there are no uncleared matters, it is very clear, the cantonal police in charge of the area. The coordination agency responsible for the internal... so the building. And very... jurisdiction. Therefore, Minister, I would suggest that you file a criminal complaint against a cantonal minister who has not taken the activities he has had to take. So this is too serious a thing, too serious a thing to miss and not take any action. I mean, somebody said, just to tell you this, people never learn anything from history. If anyone should learn, then they are the peoples of BiH. And these things suggest that we remember some things and that we react seriously to these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15496	I find that there are no more applications for the third item of the agenda for the discussion. 63 We move to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure In the procedure, the Council of Ministers submitted this proposal for a law requiring urgent consideration. I'm opening up for discussion, but I'm also going to stick to the Rules of Procedure strictly, so I'm going to discuss an emergency procedure request. To separate these two things, not to discuss within the framework of an emergency procedure on the content of the law itself, because we will also have the opportunity to talk about it. Here, a list of discussions, first to say, came from MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15498	Mr. Chairman. Here, therefore, we need to clarify one thing, and the debate on vanity will open when we enter the voting phase on the whole agenda, and here we need to consider this situation. So we should vote right now on the procedure and immediately open the debate on the essence, so that during the agenda when we vote on the whole, we vote on the essence.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15499	It doesn't say anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15500	Please, but then, look, I have to tell you now what's stopping me from voting on the Emergency Act, which is a crucial solution, and don't limit me to it, because this is a very serious matter. I call on the Council of Ministers first to withdraw this law. This is a shame that we won the parliamentary procedure and this must, so it would be good to withdraw. If not, then go to regular procedure. It is proposed to break the public procurement system in BiH, form two offices -- in Mostar and Banja Luka, which will decide on complaints for purchases of up to 800,000 marks, and the Sarajevo office, and for what are central institutions, more than 800,000 marks will decide. Be careful, this Law, if adopted like this, raises the question, says – jurisdiction is determined towards the seat of the contract authority. I am now asking the Council of Ministers, here they are, to answer me – where will they lodge an appeal for the procurement of up to 800,000 marks of the entity where is the contract authority in Sarajevo? Is she going to Mostar or Banja Luka? Where, if he is in Trebinj, will he go to Mostar or Banja Luka? Does a man in Mostar have the right to address Banja Luka and a man from Banja Luka Mostar? It's not said here that Mostar is for the Federation, I suppose what you're about to say but it's not said, and that Banja Luka is for RS, but then the problem is and that's not why it's not listed here. I point out this as a key problem for this, this is an inconclusive law, this will in practice cause serious problems tomorrow. I call on you, so that's all I'm going to talk about - pull this law out as soon as 64 is better because this is an inconclusive law. So, two offices up to 800,000, one in Mostar, one in Banja Luka, and now let's see -- where you're from, from the Bihachi unsub, where he's going. There's no record of what's covering or what's going on with this state deal. Therefore, take care when writing laws. This is something that's inconclusive. That's it, thank you. And we, of course, are against procedures and we are against the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15501	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15502	Here, I'll try to talk about procedure after all. So, I don't think we should accept an emergency procedure in this case for a few reasons. So this House of Representatives concluded and requested a comprehensive analysis of the Public Procurement Act in early January, I think. We have the same attitude as the Finance Commission, I think, when considering the work of the Board of Appeals. So, the commitment of both this House and its working bodies is to access a systematic analysis of the Public Procurement Act, I believe that it is a good part and done, and I have information that it is, and then access to practically comprehensive changes and additions will not appreciate these proposed at this point, because I am talking about procedure. That's one thing. Another thing why I would not support an emergency procedure request for the space of reason why the practice of relations with Parliament continues. So a whole series of laws that are not irrelevant that are not simple where MPs would also have the need to intervene are reduced to emergency procedures and prevent MPs from taking a more serious part. And as far as I could see from the explanation, the Public Procurement Agency has been bypassed, which is a legal obligation in the procedure of amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15503	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15504	Thank you, Chairman. I suggested that this point be removed from the agenda last time. The law on public procurement is one of the most important laws currently in this part of the Balkans. NGOs have been warning for a long time, although we have some critical reflections on their work, but I think they rightly warn that the law has been robbing state capital around 700 million marks annually in BiH. This Law does not in any way correspond to the real situation, and it is necessary to seriously sit down to make a serious law to prevent various abuses used in the application of this Law. There's a lot of them. Of course, 65 consults both practice and experts and not approach quick or cosmetic changes to some of this Law that are of no use. If there's political will in this country, I think it's a priority issue. We have talked a lot today about the dissatisfaction of citizens and whether the dissatisfaction of citizens will be made and because of this Law, where hundreds of millions go to someone in their pockets in an illegal manner. This is too serious a matter and Parliament would have to deal seriously with this law and pass one law that will, in a substantive sense, prevent all the negative phenomena that are happening. I therefore support this proposal to remove this Law from the agenda and to approach the creation of a new law. So he'll be useful to all of us in this regard. And I think that in BiH there is still organised crime and that in this respect this Parliament will have to pay more attention and deal more seriously with some things because we will be forced to do so, I think we will be forced to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15505	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15506	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. The SDP Club will accept an emergency procedure, and as far as the amendments themselves are concerned, the proposed amendments to the Law are of an intervening nature and therefore the emergency procedure makes sense. The need for the Public Procurement Act to be thoroughly revised really stands. It is also in the context of respondents already sent to the EU in relation to poglavlje v – public procurement and implies such activity. They are in circulation, and now two practically proposed amendments to the law have already been prepared. One that has been done by the Public Procurement Agency, the other which has been proposed by the Citizens' Association “Tender”, or the Account, and they are really serious proposals that should be taken into consideration as soon as possible, i.e. the Council of Ministers will probably give its version, so that we should face up to the new proposal for thorough amendments to the Law in the autumn. And these are, therefore, changes in the intervening nature and will not disrupt that concept of the Law that will be thoroughly revised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15507	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15508	Dear fellow Domazet, it is your right to support or not to support this. I just want to keep track of you being warned when there's confusion in the application of this law. So, there will be confusion and we will lose the public procurement system in BiH because if you determine up to 800,000 areas in Mostar and Banja Luka, or offices, then you must set up areas for them. The areas are 66 undefined, there will be complete confusion in the application of the Law. And I want this thing recorded. If this is an emergency procedure we don't have any more public procurement systems, remember what I told you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15509	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Ismeta Dervoz, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15510	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I thank Mr. Domazet for explaining the current situation very well. We, therefore, have two proposals for the Public Procurement Act in place and it is really unclear why these amendments concerning only the Office are now required by the emergency procedure. This is a very serious problem, a problem that generates the processes of corruption and everything that is plagued by our society in BiH more than many of the problems we have discussed today. I see no reason, no need, no seriousness in us to discuss these and such laws by emergency procedure, especially if we have two suggestions, which the distinguished professor said and that they are good and that they will soon be in front of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15511	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15512	Well, there's of course, there's a reason why it was proposed that this law be so insignificant, as I would say, suggest that it enters a hasty procedure. I have asked a representative question in my time, for which reasons some case is very important for BiH, and it is about the digitisation process, which was why instead of a month of appeal, the appeal was discussed and the decision on it was taken after eight months. It's one of the reasons why they make us rush to fix things, to cut those deadlines, to make them reasonable. That the Board of Appeal can no longer call for a number of cases, etc., congestion and the like in its reply. On the other hand, I agree with my colleague Džaferović that there are really elements in the text of the law that can be confusing. And to me, I admit, it wasn't clear what areas to think about when it came to these offices of this Office to consider complaints in Mostar and Banja Luka. If it's possible to explain it in a way that it's possible for the law to remain in an emergency procedure in order, but if it isn't, and I'm afraid it won't be possible, then it's necessary to convert it out of haste, to make this procedure, to make the procedure a little less hasty and a little more regular. And just to say that, I agree absolutely with my colleague Kunić, he is waiting for us and it absolutely requires a more radical intervention in this legislative framework in light of the fight against corruption, in light of everything we face and what we are aware of. However, as I would say, I look forward to legal projects that are, which 67 have this kind of ambition, but this should not delay the willingness to take a small step forward that offers such a legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15513	Thank you. Dear Representative Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15514	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the Council of Ministers and other guests. So, Mr. Džaferović said the position of the SDA Club on this matter, but here is just the listener behind this glass here from the discussions of my distinguished colleagues and colleagues it is very clear that there is no need for urgency here, i.e. the urgency of the procedure. When you hear the esteemed Professor Kunić, the esteemed Ismet, Beriz, it is very clear that for the urgency of the procedure and this, as Professor Domazet represents, only these operational changes that are today have not been consulted by anyone in the chain to which it concerns tomorrow. And I very much respect the discussions and Professor Kunić, and Ismet and Mr Belkić, because then why all our work here in Parliament through committees, improving the status, reporting agencies, or the Office of Appeal. We need to talk very openly here. So here it tries to implement a certain political promise that has been made to someone, but yet in a very stupid and clumsy way and will not be revived in application. So we know very well which political leaders signed certain agreements, who offered certain concessions, but such a law destroys a complete system that is as Professor Kunić said. He's corrupt, millions are lost here, we've had all the clubs meetings with the tender associations, we've had meetings with everyone who warns about what's going on at the Board of Appeals and what's going on in public enterprises across BiH, on both sides of the entity, where the law is also an existing space for manipulation of those who want to be exploited in an illegal and illegal way. With these urgent changes today, we are actually only deepening and not resolving the burning issue in BiH, which is for sure - corruption. So I ask that we do not deceive ourselves here, this should be returned to the regular procedure, to respect all those who have something to say, and have already said, we have all written requirements and solutions offered, and to make a law that will make it easier for all BiH citizens and for all those who are concerned with this law that can be implemented in concrete and correct terms what the law requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15515	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15516	Thank you. Well, I really have to react to this presentation by a respected colleague of Sarajlić. I, a colleague of Sarajlić, wonders what you say, especially because you were the head of the municipality and I'm sure 68 of you had a lot of problems because of the existing Public Procurement Act. I'll tell you that in my municipality, so SDS doesn't come to mind to support for no reason what SNSD deals with some if it's not good quality and we'll never support it, but let's say I have a problem in my community – one local official, a tycoon of SNSD that never gets, doesn't just pass a man in a tender, but everything and one possible tender complains. And then you get the procedure going, for months it's been going on, it means about misery because a man entertains the whole community. And that's what we need... so people for political reasons, I don't know, come to mind and write complaints, what, nothing costs him. It needs to be cut down. Where there's really a reason for someone to complain there's a law let no one complain about it, but the goal is to cut down these unfounded complaints that represent some political ones, and I don't know any personal vanitys, either. I believe you've met with that as a captain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15517	Thank you. Dear Representative Asim Sarajlić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15518	I really agree with my colleague, so there are a lot of operational problems when you conduct public procurement. Yeah, I did spend it, but what's the point here? With this urgent procedure and the solutions offered, we do not solve, Aleksandar, these problems. We build up problems and create a confusion in the overall BiH field and deepen the pockets of those who need public money, push them and remove them from the scene. So that's the point here, that we're dealing with this. And they offered this to all of you at the clubs are probably like the representatives of the association were coming to us, we have committee positions, we have debates here in Parliament, we have also had fights in the offices of the appeal and a grudge against certain members, you know that well. And what do we have today? We have two offices that will consider 800 grand. And these questions that Šefik asked are just the tip of the iceberg what other issues will be raised in the implementation of this law that is very confusing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15519	Thank you. I have here the application of the honourable representative, Petar Kunić, for the debate and he already had the debate. Is it a replica or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15520	No microphone enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15521	...what you want. If it's a replica, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15522	Replica. Well, right on the trail of my colleague Aleksandra's discussion to go through with this law. This existing law is inapplicable, it's corrupt, it's anything but the 69 public procurement law, it's a disaster. Second, yes, one controversy, that is, a replica of my distinguished colleague professor. Namely, if it comes seriously, if there are any variations, two variants of the Public Procurement Act must be followed by Criminal laws, amendments and additions to the Criminal Law. So, no, you can't apply that law without changing the law, Criminal Law. The abuse of the official position as a qualification in that law will not be the only qualification of a penalty. This law requires the development of the Criminal Law so that it can be applied to this law and not to be bypassed, as lawyers would say... And it seems with this law because it's ambiguous, because it can be interpreted in this way and that way, etc. So it's a fertile soil for corruption, crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15523	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15524	Well, you see the chairman, this is one really by all the elements of a very problematic law. Be careful, the offices in Mostar and Banja Luka are not determined by the area, they were believed to be entities but it is not written, and then the man from Trebinj will be able to address both Mostar and Banja Luka as he wills if there is a contractual authority there and vice versa, that I do not now take other areas, Bihać for example both Banja Luka and Mostar. So it's confusion. And the particular problem is, I say it's not the legal face of that office and it allows it to make final decisions. There is no institution that makes final decisions without being a legal person. Against this final decision, up to 800,000 are going to the administrative dispute. What court? Probably the BiH Court, it remains in the law. People, if we want to help the subjects then we need to make ten of these centres around BiH, we need to make a completely different organization, if that's the goal, this is what Mrs. Aleksandra was talking about, if the office is loaded. This is something that's completely inapplicable, that's all I'm pointing to. There, I'm not going to say anything about this law anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15525	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Domazet, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15526	Thank you. I thank Professor Kunić for, in effect, giving an argument for an urgent, i.e. urgent procedure, because more significant changes to the Public Procurement Act require a longer period of time and require intervention in other border areas as well. That is why this urgent change proposal is more acceptable. In this respect, it would be possible to act immediately on a more effective settlement of complaints and the introduction of new rules that will defrost procedures and actually speed up public procurement procedures in many areas. So that's just the 70 reason why you're going now to this emergency procedure because really one significant change that's coming requires a longer period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15527	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. The request of MP Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Well-being of Animals under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure In 05.06.2013, MP Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic delivered the draft law in the procedure with an urgent request for an examination. I'm opening a motion hearing. Dear representative Beriz Belkić reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15529	I was not at the opportunity when we were around the agenda, it was practically established that the agenda had already been established etc. Otherwise I'd be saying this during the agenda debate. So, I would ask my colleague Nermina to withdraw this Act, of course, if possible, for the simple reason that in January of this year, we did an initiative launched by Džaferović and I to get the conclusion of the House and the warrant through the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to analyse the application of the existing Animal Welfare Act as well as any suggestions and suggestions for possible changes. That took a long time. We intervened on several occasions, etc., according to my latest information, thank you here Nermin that I know what you showed me, according to my information, so that analysis was done. It's a long story, it was once done, so the office delivered it directly, so it's not the Ministry. In short, there is an analysis, and I would really ask that you withdraw this law and then, based on this analysis, which we hope the College will put into the agenda here, to make appropriate conclusions in which direction the amendments and additions of this Law should go, without doubting what you have done, that you have put forth effort, etc., but I am not sure that this will be appropriate in relation to what the profession will tell us, or the Office of Veterinary.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15530	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, debate. Here you go. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15531	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. I also believe that this law should be removed from the agenda... procedure, because you have probably received several e-mails from various associations for the protection and welfare of animals with a proposal just to leave the possibility to intervene on this law for reasons that the existing law does not actually apply. Therefore, I would ask colleague Nermin Zaimović that indeed, here is the possibility to actually cross the arguments of those who are fighting for the protection and welfare of animals, to see what kind of objections they actually have in terms of not implementing the already existing Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15532	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15533	Thank you very much. So, I've been trying to figure out what the proposer's motive was for a law like this, which hasn't been implemented since 2009, to make a decision to go through an emergency procedure. So there's no argument in favor of that. I don't want to ask the law to withdraw, he's already in procedure, although he can be pulled by a colleague if he finishes it by the end of the first reading, but he has one collegiate recommendation. It is unusual for the SDP to give its colleagues whenever it comes to delicate legal proposals never to be signed by SDP men. They always let their colleagues be who they were, and they didn't even know what they were suggesting, under quotes. So, that's bad, because it proposes to make a decision to kill abandoned animals without any methods coming into life by law. It's an unforgivable colleague, I'm the last woman to expect you to be able to defend that attitude. So, I don't think there's any point in this law going by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15534	Thank you. Before I give my word to the next MP, I'd like to ask the services to invite representatives to the hall, we don't have a quorum, but here I wouldn't interrupt but to call people. Honorable representative Ismet Dervoz. Here you go, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15535	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I see the reasons why this bill is before us today. In the city where the distinguished Mrs. Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic lives, a verdict was made in favour of a citizen who unfortunately suffered from injuries sustained by the bites of an abandoned pet experienced traumas that require further long-term treatment. And I would never put myself in the position of parents who, in the surrounding schools in Sarajevo and in some BiH cities, come to pick up their children with 72 prepared tools to defend against the pack of poor and abandoned and hungry animals who, unfortunately, are trying to find their own food for themselves. However, I am not part of the Parliamentary Assembly which adopted this Law in 2009 which is the only law from the European partnership in the field of sectoral policy, agriculture and fisheries adopted at the state level, but I welcome it with all my heart. And I look forward to the fact that BiH has passed a law like this. The fact that this Law has not been implemented is our problem. Units of local communities were obliged to set up shelters for abandoned animals within a year as well as hygiene services that could be established, so municipalities, cities, cantons, and all according to the specificities of the environment, the size of the population. So, the law is good, the law is as it should be, the law is civilized, the law is necessary to all of us who respect the rights of all living beings that they can live and be unworthyly removed and whether this case is about abandoned dogs and a large population of stray dogs. I would suggest that, after this, no analysis, we have information, Mr. Belkić, which has been delivered, on the implementation of the Animal Protection and Well-being Act in the part concerning the issue of abandoned dogs, which has been delivered to us by the Office of Veterinary Affairs of BiH. So, with the following information and opportunities that we have about this Amendment and the addition of the Law, we may be discussing in a regular procedure and thus may draw attention to these problems of non-implementation, which in the end lead to these major problems in which we must understand and certainly support all of those citizens of BiH who seek and benefit for pets and abandoned animals, but certainly also safety for their children and for citizens who, at this point, are afraid of a large number of abandoned dogs moving in packs. So, I plead to discuss this in a regular procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15536	Thank you. There's only 18 of us in the hall right now, there's no one in front of the hall, I'm giving a five-minute break to try to get a quorum. I'd beg you to ring the bell or... [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15537	Beriz Belkić replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15538	I don't know if we understood each other, so we listened well. The House of Representatives reached its conclusion in January, no matter who initiated it, from where, etc., but reached a conclusion and ordered the office, Mr Šarović a little follow me, ordered the office through the Ministry, the Veterinary Office to analyse the application of the existing law in all segments and to submit this analysis to this Parliament with a proposal for any amendments. So our conclusion did not at all prejudge whether, what are the changes, whether they should be at all, but asked for them, or whether we, the House of Representatives, asked for them. And now I'm just asking Nermina to wait for that document and these suggestions from the ministry that we don't go double-colossal and nothing else. And I suggest you and 73, please, Mrs. Uzunović, withdraw. Mr. Šarović, you've heard, others have started to suggest a partial, give that analysis, I have information that it was done a long time ago, give it here and let's work and propose changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15539	The word has an MP, Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15540	Mr. Chairman. Well, here I really support this approach, which was discussed by my colleague Belkić, as well as by other fellow Members and fellow MPs who spoke in the direction that we might prepare this information for the next session with a proposal for measures. Unless we have some concrete direction then, I support that we are also going in this way, as proposed today by counterpart Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović. So I think, here, if that kind of arrangement can be reached in that sense, it would be a relief for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15541	Thank you. The word has Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15542	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So here's to explain why I did it and why I filed this request for, the bill on amending and supplementing the Animal Protection and Wellbeing Act. Namely, pressured by the demands, first of all, you all received a request from the congregation of cities and the municipalities of the Federation to resolve this issue, all of you received in writing a few months ago, long before the initiative the honourable MPs sought, launched at this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15543	It's a long night, Berize. Easy.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15544	Second of all, berize, I listened to you. You won't listen to anyone but yourself. Then I received records and requests from the municipal councils that place a special point on the agenda of their congregations where they bring up the problems they face. Then, on the basis of all this, I asked our research sector to conduct a comparative analysis of the application of the Law throughout the region, so that in comparisons to the laws of BiH in neighbouring countries and the EU. Then, the associations of those who were injured by dogs also sent me a series of information that I can, who are interested in, and charts and from workshops they organized,... So, this proposal is no hoax of anyone's, so this, when research was done on 11.07.2012 is done, since then data shows that the situation is getting worse and worse, the number of stray dog bites has increased 34% to 74 versus the previous one. This is not a proposal that I personally made, this is a rule of association, associations, NGOs and young experts in legal and veterinary professions. Next, please finish, you can listen to me, further results show that if we continue to apply this law we will have an exponential increase in the injuries of the number of abandoned animals, as you call them abandoned animals, they have never been abandoned.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15545	Just one note, this is the fifth item of the agenda and we're saying whether or not we're going to comply with article 127.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15546	So why am I, I'm just explaining to you the reasons, because now everyone's not saying it, but they're asking me to pull something that didn't come to mind and it didn't come out as a whim, it was as a ridiculous need to change things urgently. Every day four Sarajevo citizens report to the infirmary. If that's not enough reason why it's an emergency procedure, because people are hurt, there's no vaccine, there's no antitetanus vaccine now, if you think it's not, I'll be ready to make my proposal, not withdraw it, but not be an emergency but a shortened procedure, so much concession I can make. And it's my right as an advocate to take this. And this is not what I've been persuaded by all those people I'm talking about, so what I'm doing is doing my job to the representatives of those citizens who asked me to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15547	There are 30 points of the agenda, it's a long night we'll finish this session. The replica of Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15548	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the law is called the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection and Well-being Act. Everything you've told me you've told me about the protection of man, you haven't said anything about animal protection, you're missing it. You miss the other side, you miss the other side of the decision, and that side prevents you from making that decision as an emergency procedure. I'm just saying, there's no reason that everything you've been saying can't be carried out in a regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15549	Thank you. Dr. Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15550	Thank you, Chairman. Here, you just said that we're on the fifth item of the agenda and there are 30, thinking that the College might have arranged and shortened this session, maybe with that point just once for 75 today, and after that we have very important points, very important points that we might be able to discuss the type of report on the work of the Council of Ministers, is that likely to skip and fall into oblivion? Here, just a few words to say, it means when it comes to the amendment and addition of this Animal Protection and Well-being Act. Well, I'm kind of curious, I know it's an emergency, short-lived, regular procedure, he thinks it should go into the regular procedure, first of all, to check the enforceability of this law. Here, a colleague here, in an explanation and cited, say, a ban, forbidden to check the edge of an animal on another animal, forbidden to organize the bull fighting corridors, so we have it all the time, we have it all the time, here it was recently worse,... by 10,000 people, and here is the list of "Covljanska Corida" attended by 100,000 people. Can we punish, can it mean legislator and who's going to spend this now, come to the corridor somewhere and say you brought the bulls and they'll punish someone I don't even know with a thousand, two or five thousand marks. Here when we talk about these abandoned animals, which is, which you know, an abandoned animal? In one show, Ljubo Rojs Royce said who saw an abandoned lamb? Well, there's no abandoned lamb, is there no abandoned sheep, no abandoned cow, no horse, here they are abandoned, so abandoned, stray dogs, so stray dogs should put them there where they should be, they should be fine...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15551	My Jurišić, I'm going to have an emergency procedure, a request for an ambulance, and we're discussing it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15552	So this needs a regular procedure and see if this is conductive, whether this is conductive or not, and not to bring the law a dead letter on paper and, as soon as we've passed the law, we're going to go look at the corridor or the sharp horns of those oxes, I think we should ban it, and the cords probably don't. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15553	And another colleague Jagodić to help us with this discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15554	Oh, well, I'll be real quick. I'd like to thank my colleague Nermina, she's extremely, I believe, and with good intention of proposing this, and I can certainly say that in the past two months I've received, I think, over 500 some messages, one say kill, one say close, save, but believe me, I don't have any more words or neighbors to say we will or won't. However, this is an extremely good proposal, but I would ask, given that it is a parliamentary majority and that you in some way, I would recommend that you agree on what you think, offer your coalition partners at the level of your majority and agree and that the vote and the matter is settled and then we will watch and measure whether it is good or not. So much, and this is a shame to put on so much effort, and we're all wasting our time together, and we end up making this conclusion and attitudes like they're visible. Thank you. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15555	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, I'm sorry, Mr. Mirko Šarović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15556	Thank you. Well, this question, this law is in the Council of Ministers' 2013 Work Programme. A year. This Programme was also adopted by this House, so that the issue of amending and supplementing the Animal Protection and Well-being Act will be found in regular procedures. And if I can help it is my proposal, really estimating both the efforts and the good intentions of the promoter, to wait for or for the next session of this House with relevant information, I would really like to take action to co-operate with the Veterinary Office and our agency in Banja Luka, and you know that there is an agency that deals with this issue, prepare the information and give this question in the regular procedure as soon as possible. I would like to inform you that the Office of Veterinary has made a remarkable effort and a great deal of work and that this issue is expected at the most recent time to be found in parliamentary procedure, first at the Council of Ministers and then here at the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15557	I thank the Honorable Minister. I'm closing the debate on agenda item five. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15562	Secretary.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15563	Secretary, I still think that here for this point, with all due respect... [[Common discussion]] Are we all agreed to extend this point for the next session? Are we going to get to the bottom of this, or are we going to get to it right now? Come on, now. All right, please prepare for the vote, so conclusion – The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives extends the debate on the 2012 Council of Ministers' work report and asks the chairman and ministers to attend the session when this agenda is specifically discussed. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15567	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, the Vice Governor. Here, let me just say for a moment, since we had a unique position when it comes to the Central Bank report and the Financial Report on the Commission for...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15568	I will only ask that these parliamentary-ministeral bilaterals be stopped a little while the session, counterpart Bursać and Minister Hadžić, last. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15569	We discussed and unanimously accepted the reports. Based on the quality report, good data and elements have been produced with which we, as well as other institutions at BiH level, could draw useful parameters to target their activity in the coming period. If other organisations such as the Central Bank's BiH-level institution were to work in this way, it would probably be a much more favourable situation in BiH than it is now. The central bank took care of the conversion of domestic currency and with a fixed rate towards the euro and currency, then contributed to maintaining macroeconomic stability, low inflation rates, etc., which is the lowest rate in the environment, but also perhaps on average to European countries. They've kept the stock in a good place. Then, during 2012, there were, in fact, no favourable conditions for achieving higher incomes, this applies primarily to the fact that at a certain point the funds invested and even the negative rate that ranged from -0.07 to 0.28 at the annual level were even carried out. It all says that in extremely difficult conditions the Central Bank has worked. She managed to keep her capital and make a net profit and profit of 34.1 million marks, with certain rational behaviours in the area of expenditure that were lower than in 2011 for 180 thousand marks. 79 I think this report is quality done, that the activities of the Central Bank are well-positive and we will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15570	Thank you. The word has a letter from Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15571	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So we have a really standard annual report from the Central Bank for the previous year on more than 170 pages. So it is clear that the Central Bank has indeed successfully played its part in preserving macroeconomic stability and as a bank fiscal agent in BiH. So it was said in the report itself that the concept of the Currency Committee helps to preserve BiH's macroeconomic stability and that is a fact, but on the one hand, this is a restriction because the Central Bank does not have the possibility to act on interest rates. It also has no opportunity to take over the role of the bank of the last haven, so to help commercial banks in the event of a financial crisis. Also, what I think is a really big restriction, unfortunately, is that the Central Bank cannot issue short-term securities. Of course, our Ministry of Finance and the Treasury can do that, so I'm sorry that I don't see Mr Špirić on this occasion, so maybe we should exchange some of our views on the above issue. In fact, the macro-economicists and the leading macro-economicists in BiH agree that, for example, issuing a deposit certificate owned by the Central Bank would be one of the options for overcoming the problems facing the real sector, which is the unsatisfactory liquidity of the real sector. I think that these options may need to be considered in the future, and in this direction, you might need to change the Central Bank Act. What else would you look at? So, I'd like to give my review of the work of the Permanent Committee on Financial Stability. Namely, our Ministry of Finance and Treasury, together with entity finance ministries and entity banking agencies, formed 4 years ago, so in 2009, based on the Memorandum of Understanding, the Standing Committee on Financial Stability. So, the task of the Standing Committee on Financial Stability is to coordinate activities, so the State Ministry of Finance, entity ministries and agencies, or to help overcome the consequences of the economic and financial crisis. Therefore, it has a primarily co-ordinating and informative role, conducts stress tests, analyses of the quality of credit to banks, profitability and insolvency of the entire banking sector. The Committee has met several times, however, the problem is that the abovementioned Committee has a more advisory and co-ordinating role, i.e. decisions taken by the members of the Committee, are our esteemed institutions, i.e. the ministry, without a binding role. I think that perhaps, therefore again, I am sorry that it is not our distinguished minister here, to see if there are any intensities in the future to amend that law, or that the law is in force in the sense that the Committee has the role of the Fiscal Council, so that its recommendations are truly binding on the participants. Nim, it's not just my recommendation, it's a recommendation, so experts from the International Monetary Fund. When experts from the IMF came and in a letter of intent, it was pointed out that we would strengthen our Committee. So, when the first check came, the first review of the 2010 stand-by arrangement highlighted a significant step forward in strengthening financial 80 stability in BiH to form the said Committee. I think that is another reason why we might consider in the coming period that we are in some way legally strengthening the role of the institution, i.e. the Permanent Committee on Financial Stability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15572	Thank you. The word has an MP, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15573	Thank you. The Central Bank has given us a fine presentation here of the situation in which BiH is located, so that we had a decline in gross domestic product -0.5% in the past year, that we additionally charged 470.8 million KM, that unfortunately unemployment has grown, so BiH is practically heading backwards. Maybe, is it the Central Bank's job... but I think it would be good, I couldn't read the report, so the Central Bank employs 347 employees, where 69% are highly educated, 7 doctors, 29 magistrates, so people of profession and mind, maybe they could offer us a better solution for... Obviously, the Council of Ministers, here since I've been here in Parliament, has not responded to this situation. I don't think this is a good economic situation and that we should react and maybe it would be good if the Central Bank had given us any suggestions for a solution to get out of this, which in any case the Council of Ministers should give us when we consider the work of the Council of Ministers, that will be my question to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15574	The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15575	Well, here's the thing. I'm not gonna take the time. I really appreciate the presentations of the Finance and Budget Committee members who have obviously been paying attention to this report. It's safe, and I agree that it's very useful, but unfortunately still, and I hope that this changes, that the most significant data in the area of economic flows, in some ways, through the Central Bank, we get. However, I have one question, although the answer could be seen from this table – what caused this big profit difference, I say it is big, because it's about 11 million, or, excuse me, it's 11 million marks in 2011 where the net profit was 45 million and we have 2012 where there are 34 million. This also directly concerns BiH's budget, so I would ask the Vice Governor to explain to us a little bit what the reasons are, other than what stands up in interest that the difference, etc., could be asked for another solution, yet 11 million is not little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15576	I find that there are no more sentencing MPs to discuss. Is there anything on behalf of the Central Bank that anyone would like to say? 81 Vice Governor, right, Mr. Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15577	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs/legislators. First, to apologize on behalf of the Governor of the Central Bank who is on vacation and announcements for holding this session were different so that he could not interrupt his annual vacation. But here, I'm going to try to say a few words on behalf of the Central Bank and look back on this question to the esteemed Mr. Belkić. We attended a session of the Commission on Budgets and Finance and at that session we had the opportunity to explain in more detail the Annual Report and the results contained in the financial reports. The Central Bank's assessment is that in 2012, it was very demanding, very unfavourable, both at global level, and that global level determines us in the part of the management of the Central Bank's foreign reserves, as well as at this local level. The annual report contains information about which colleagues spoke and it is true that it reflects what happened in 2012. The overall results of BiH's economy and economy have been determined on one hand, so these movements in the environment and in Europe, because we are on this space and how we are addressed, and unfortunately in 2012, there was a year in which a significant number of EU countries re-recorded negative economic results and entered the recession. The recession continues at the beginning of this year and the international financial institutions' greatest authority is very concerned that the economic situation will continue to develop throughout this year. It is logical that these developments have also defined what is happening in BiH's economy, given our export dependence on the EU, as well as the countries of the environment that also recorded the decline in economic activities. Of course, here is the question of how to react in such an economic situation? The issue is very difficult, very demanding and with all respect for authority in the academic community, and in the Central Bank, in the executive government, it is very difficult to give a reasonable answer. If that were the best way to confirm the problems that in an attempt to stop adverse trends, start with the global crisis in 2009, make it a much more developed, much more powerful country without, I would dare say, almost no restrictions, both intellectually and with regard to relevant financial resources that could affect economic movements. The crisis, as we have witnessed, is very tough and these attempts so far have obviously not been properly designed. What can a small open economy like BiH do under these circumstances? I hope we agree that the discretionary space is not too large, but in the most difficult circumstances, in the most difficult situation, it is worth looking for the right answers and trying to reverse the situation. On the other hand, these economic results that were achieved in 2012 are certainly determined by the capacity and the overall state of our economy. It is a public secret that the transition period did not go great and that in addition to the inherited problems of the previous period we are one part witnesses and the emerging problems of the transition period, hence insufficiently successful privatisation, the fact that a large number of privatised companies are in much more trouble than they were before privatisation. There are also unfinished structural reforms, and obviously there are also a lot of work for economic policymakers and all the authorities in BiH. So brief on this overall situation and on the Annual Report of the Central Bank which, in our opinion, has adequately presented it. 82 As regards the financial statements of the Central Bank...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15578	Mr. Božić, I'm sorry, I just want to remind you, so the debate for everyone in the O.R. is limited to five minutes, so you'll fit in.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15579	Just one more sentence, if you'll excuse me. Dear MP Belkić, as well as others, was able to see this fall in financial results, reading our report. We have very carefully analysed it in the Central Bank, so at the Board of Management, and in our opinion, the results achieved have been determined by three factors. This is the first level of foreign reserves, the second level of interest rates and the rate of contributions in the relevant financial markets and, of course, the level of total expenditure. The foreign reserve level has been moving at a level of about 6 billion KM over the last few years, and that is simply an exogenous variable that we can hardly influence. The level of foreign reserves depends on the size and strength of the economy, therefore on exports, depends on foreign investments, depending on the signs. Unfortunately, exports were under a lot of pressure, and mostly foreign foreign foreign reserves kept the signs, and we also recorded a drop in foreign direct investment. So it's the first limiting variable, because we invest what we have. As far as interest rates are concerned, Honorable MP Tomić has already spoken about it, and if we compare interest rates in 2011 with interest rates in 2012 both on deposits and on securities of value, the logical conclusion is that, with such conditions, investment of foreign reserves could practically not be achieved anymore. What we were doing at the Central Bank is aware of the changes that occurred especially in this part of the deposit we performed a certain restructuring of foreign reserves and a significant part of the foreign reserves we focused on investment in securities of value. That gave you this result that you had a chance to be informed about. There's so much, if there are any questions I'm willing to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15580	Thank you. I'm closing the 10th item of the agenda. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda, Ad. 11. Report on work of BiH Appeal Office in 2012 You have been delivered the conclusions of the Finance and Budget Commission, two conclusions. I'm opening a debate. Do any of the MPs report for discussion? The word has a letter from Danijela Martinović. Here you go. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15582	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So we received a report on the work of the Board of Appeals in the previous year, as well as the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget with conclusions that really apostrophe the longstanding problems it faces in the middle. So, from the number of objects, insufficient personnel, technical and other... I think it's really apostrophe in the right way, so it's pointed to the problems that need to be solved. Certainly, it should also be technical, and personnel, and operationally, and financially, to assist the work of the Office of Appeals, and of course, to adopt a new Law on Public Procurement. However, I am afraid that this new Law on Public Procurement, which should indeed be detailed in all, therefore, to its individual members, i.e. to overcome all the difficulties that have arisen in the very implementation of that Law, if that is not the case, I am afraid that the problems in the public procurement system and also at the route of the Office - Public Procurement Agency will remain. I would refer here to the problems that the Ad hoc task force has, which is formed by the Parliamentary Assembly and whose members, or members, are my distinguished colleagues, Mrs Majkić, Mrs Dervoz and I, then members of the Ministry of Finance, or members of the Ministry of Justice, the Office of Appeals and Public Procurement. So far, we've tried to find each other several times, but the problem is we haven't had adequate technical or operational support. So, so far, despite all my urgency towards the Council of Ministers, there is no solution to the problem involved, first to staff completion. We've had a long time of members, therefore, from the Board of Appeals who resigned from that post. Then there's no problem solved, so funding. We had a problem with the length of our mandate, so at one point we learned that we needed to meet, and our mandate was simply completed, i.e. in the Official List, the solution was that we had a three-month term. After three months we met and we didn't even know that a solution was issued, or that we were given a mandate by the Council of Ministers. So, we haven't really had a problem so far, we've had a problem, we haven't had the opportunity to make our contribution, or to fulfill the task that has been set up for us, which was to propose a solution to overcome the problems that are related to coordinating activities between the Agency and the Office itself. These problems are really many years of problems. As far as I know, certain members of the Board of Appeal have so far addressed the Parliamentary Assembly and our Constitutional Legal Commission. We also have a few court proceedings. So now the question, indeed, is one big and important question, can we prejudge the decisions of the court by our work, as much as we wish and have a better idea of helping in some way to coordinate the activities of the Office and the Public Procurement Agency. We are also aware that Mr. Chairman Amir Pilav has repeatedly singled out his thoughts and provided us with his specific information concerning work or problems in the Office's work to consider complaints. In fact, I really have no intention of holding anyone's side here, but so far we have indeed been, as the Commission, the Ad hoc Working Group, or as the Parliamentary Assembly, we have been excluded or we have not received all the necessary information in time. Thus, the Parliamentary Assembly, at its 39th session, concluded that the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on Administration, carried out the procedure for the appointment of the President and the Vice-President. However, according to the Public Procurement Act, Article 49, the term of office of the President is therefore not limited. That, that is, if we adopt this proposal for an emergency procedure today, only now will the presidency be limited. 84 So we are simply led astray and the question arises whether, before some of our conclusions, we have somehow wronged the law itself, or the legal framework. So, I think it would really be appropriate for the Council of Ministers to finally send us an integrated version of the Public Procurement Act, or finally help us structure, but indeed the right structure of our working group. So to solve both the financing problem and the problem of technical and personnel equipment, and in particular to provide us with all the necessary information. Indeed, it turned out that we did not have all the necessary information and could not make adequate decisions. I'm sorry, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15583	Thank you. The word has Ismet Dervoz's emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15584	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the Ad hoc Group, Mrs Martinović, who explained all these elements that are related to the Ad hoc group's attempt to perform the task it received in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It is clear and clear that there are certain circles that do not want this problem to be fully enlightened and solved in a way that is necessary, therefore analytically, reasoned. We're trying to get some sort of solution by breaking over the knee with some kind of emergency procedure, and we don't really want to open all those pockets that hide the problems that are related to public procurement, to the Agency and to the Board of Appeals. I'm only going to refer to some of the elements of the report that's in front of us today and about which I want to say a few sentences. This report is, of course, one of those reports that will be entered next to it – accepted, adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, but this is not a report that deserves to be treated as a document that such an important Office may send to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, especially when it requires certain things in its conclusions from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that are not even in the capacity and jurisdiction of this body. The Board of Appeals is obviously having a lot of trouble. You know that I, as a representative two years ago, raised a question of conflict of interest to one of the members of the Board of Appeals. This conflict of interest has been recorded and he has stepped down as such from his duty. We now see that we have, by the number of complaints received, resolved in 2012, twice as much respected complaints, which clearly shows that there are problems and violations of the Public Procurement Act by those who call tenders and implement this Act. But little do we have you know and situations in which the Office of Discussing Appeals through some of its activities goes hand in hand to those who are very well prepared in what way to file certain complaints, which are sometimes very banal procedural little pins that should only stop processes and prevent certain things from happening and moving. What burned my eyes in this report of the Board of Appeals is that we are on two whole sides, so on two whole sides of this report, Mr. Pilav, you provided requests, needs for an additional number of staff or overtime office for 85 reviewing complaints in 2013. Mr. Pilav, according to the 2012 report on BiH's progress, the European Community Commission has assessed for the Office for the Review of Appeals so far has been able to handle a large number of complaints with its 17 employees. You're looking for a whole two-page lot more employees, funds, overtime, and here I think through these emergency procedures, amendments to the law and the opening of new businesses where you'll be even more relieved of what your job is. On the other hand, point 8. Your Report, in a shamefully small and totally unacceptable paragraph, you are talking about a major problem, which is why this Ad hoc group is organised in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, you are talking about your relationship with the BiH Public Procurement Agency regarding the Public Procurement Act. I will read what you have written, and you have written – Regular meetings have been held, members of the Board of Appeals with representatives of the Public Procurement Agency. Very interesting. Some common views have been reached. Also very interesting. A number of proposals have been set that, according to the Board of Appeals, could contribute to the better functioning of the public procurement system in BiH, were not accepted by the BiH Public Procurement Agency, resulting in certain adverse consequences. If you can explain this to me, bring it closer and tell me what these adverse consequences have been, Mr Pilav, we might be able to solve these problems that are caused by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH organised by the ad hoc commission. So, on two sides – increasing staff, overtime and new material resources and in a shamefully small passport what is the main activity and the main problem of the Board of Appeals. The report cannot require an increase in the number of employees because it is defined by law and such requirements can only be considered through amendments to the law, not through requests and conclusions, which you have delivered to us in this Report. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15585	Thank you. Next, a discussion, honourable Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15586	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to the report on the work of the Board of Appeal in 2012, here we have in the materials, at least I have two documents. One is addressed to the Parliamentary Assembly, which is about the notification of the report on the work of the Office of Appeals. I have to tell you honestly that I'm a little bit, when I'm reading this text here, so I'd like it to be representatives here, chairor or two chairpersons, I don't know, clear on this as well. There's no representative of the Council of Ministers here. It seems to me that the Council of Ministers, here I am not going to enter into the depths of this, took the powers of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly which it appointed in 2005, meaning the representatives of the Board of Appeal, where the bar said here that the law was not regulated as long as it lasted, means the mandate of those, and that this one will mean the appointment of two months ago, 08.05. ... will be valid until the tender is called and the appointment of the new chairman's office to discuss complaints by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. 86 Here, I would like to have one in some way, in this part I see that it is being initiated here and the administrative dispute, the administrative dispute at the Court of BiH or the lawsuit, so I say I would like the representatives of the Office to turn here. And, what if, if anyone is to be held accountable by any if the BiH Court respects this lawsuit or this dispute, it possibly says that there has not been, possibly says, that there has been no legal basis for, I don't know, the appointment of a new chairman's office to consider complaints, but I see from this document that it has not been resolved before and has not been resolved. Now either it needs to be resolved or I don't need it I don't know, but obviously there's one question that opens up, is it, around this, because it's indistinguishable from this point on (?) And vague. I would not like to reconsider any solutions, but here we have talked a little today about this Parliament and our role in all of this, that in some way we have replaced the roles, is, as my colleague Kabil said, an inversion of powers, so I think that someone here should possibly explain the facts to us, possibly if something should happen and answer. But... we should look for... and what you've said to the chairman, is that, that we should go first and see if we're ready to do something, so no matter who it is, someone close to each member of the Parliamentary Assembly or close to a party of some kind. So that's where we have to be very clear and explicit. What my colleague Dervoz was saying, I see here from this report how much the Board of Appeal has been considering complaints. I'm concerned that 1,155, here if I read correctly, that 1,155 is respected, and exactly in that article 8, which says that because of these things or misunderstandings, that big damage has been done. Thank Bog that great damage has been done because, and colleague Dervoz said it should be seen, so it is necessary to amend the Public Procurement Act, whether these complaints may sometimes be respected in some innocent or not to say small things. But here, it could have been caught somewhere where it wasn't clearly specified, so that the Office of Appeals did so, so of course, it repeated the whole procurement procedure, the announcement of the tender for three weeks or depending on what the amount, 40 days international and so that some things couldn't be realised or could not be invested. And of course the fact where the Board of Appeal filed a number of criminal charges. And it would be so interesting here if you all entered a little bit and everyone would see who the criminal charges were filed against. There are probably signs here of these directors of these companies against whom they have been filed, whether, which are close to certain political parties or whether they are themselves members or central bodies of the party or some cantonal organisations, and it would be interesting to see how these criminal proceedings are going to end here. So there should be an agreement between the Office for the Review of Appeals and there should be an agreement between the Public Procurement Agency and a new Law on Public Procurement should be adopted, because I saw today in that Law on Amendments and Supplements, in which way it provides for the early resolution of these members of the District Offices... cannot be resolved by the Parliamentary Assembly unless they resign, unless they are sentenced to six months and more of that prison, and I do not know what another item is, and by no means, if they are not doing their work knowingly and responsibly, they have done their work with their unconscious work, which can possibly be proven, and that, by the basis of that, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH can resolve them even before their term of office. I, if we go into the procedure of this law, will submit to that article and submit a certain amendment because, here we have seen today from a day-long debate that in some ways a responsibility is sought, the responsibility of those who somehow participated or did nothing to prevent those unloved events from happening a month ago. Thank you. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15587	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15588	I would just, in fact, not to refer to the report, but to the problem that can arise in the situation in which we are, given what the Council of Ministers has done according to the standard tradition of hasty and non-respecting the whole problem this time. A little something a colleague said about it, but not sufficiently precise and clear. And I am really surprised that the Finance and Budget Commission has not found that because it could have consequences for BiH institutions. We are now in a position for the Council of Ministers to appoint a new chairman without having previously resolved the old one. And what does that mean? This means since the previous chairman who does not have a legally established mandate has confirmed this dom, since he has not, since he has brought up an administrative dispute, if the Court's decision is to go in his favor, all decisions taken within the Office for the Review of Appeals will fall. What the value of these disputes is no one knows. So it's amazing that not only has he been playing around these two institutions for years and that no one is solving it, that there's no intervening in the Council of Ministers to finally put an end to this important issue, but once you can't call it anything else, we're putting ourselves in a position to discuss now what they should have properly ended and to avoid any consequences. I ask you to make the existing two conclusions of the Joint Defence Commission this, for finance and budget, to be added to the third. - It is asked by the Council of Ministers to consider the consequences that may arise as a consequence of the appointment of the new chairman's office to discuss complaints, without prior resolution of the duties of the previous chairman who did not have the prescribed duration of the term of office. If they don't, and if the court dispute takes a long time, you can imagine what it's going to come up with and how much damage it's going to be. So here's what I'm suggesting is that this conclusion joins yours and I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15589	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15590	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, as a full member of the Finance and Budget Commission, I support Mrs. Majkić's proposal on this new environment, because the Finance and Budget Commission, when it considered the Work Report, we had no knowledge of the activities of the Council of Ministers and the appointment of the new chair of the Board of Appeal, i.e. that they had not done this thing, had previously resolved the existing director of the Office for the Review of Appeals. 88 For these reasons, the Commission for Finance and Budget has not treated this matter in its conclusions, and here, as a member of the Commission, I do not know... the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission is not present, I accept that one of the, meaning that the next conclusion will be exactly what Mrs Majkić was talking about, in order to prevent possible adverse consequences by, so I will freely say, the state of BiH, or all those who, in the meantime, through the appeal process, will be applied, decisions will be made, and those for the possible judgment of the Constitutional Court for the benefit of the existing director will be abolished in that case. Here, I will see with the Commission on Finance and Budget, and on my behalf, if I do not have the consent of others, here I will support and propose this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15591	Thank you. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić at the last minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15592	Thank you. To say the right by reading all these reports I have to say, listening to fellow MPs somehow conclude or these reports, which are written here, or we don't understand them well or something, are somehow not clear to me. The report shows that the Board of Appeals completed 91 and 98% of its cases last year. They practically solve items under the Public Procurement Act in the majority. And I don't think it's their fault. But if they have done so much and that practically in the data that we have here at point 1.7, where it is visible in the countries of the region which are the number of cases solved, I congratulate you, you are excellent and I would like others to be so similar to you. However, all the problems that arise before, not your organization and others, I think when it comes to technical, technological, organisational, economic aspects, it is precisely the parliamentary majority that needs to look at you in time to help and ask, to follow you. Otherwise, it is not clear to me that the parliamentary majority is going so sharply towards this organisation that practically 98% meets its own. I think you should be a little more moderate, I'd like to ask. I think I, as far as I'm concerned, will vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15593	Thank you. We have a request for the meaning of one president who wrote this report, the esteemed Mr. Amir Pilav and the new president, is that right, Mr. ostoja Kremenović. Well, here you go. You can make a deal in a row.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15594	The Honorable Presidency, MPs, ladies and gentlemen. A few short sentences, I see today is a full debate. But I want to, not in order to answer all these questions that have come up here, but to bring out a few facts that I want you to have in mind. 89 First, we did solve 2,165 complaints last year, which were received during that year. Take a look at the Report in relation to other countries in the former Yugoslavia's space, which is the relationship. 91% resolved by December 31st and a vast majority of those remaining 9 during January 2013. We are doing what we can to carry out our obligations as much as the law and this Parliament demands. Secondly, on page 5 you have 2% of the items failed to solve within 30 days. Among these items are most often those associated with art, where specific expertise is needed, where we are able to admit that we do not have this knowledge, the Law on the Administrative Procedure of BiH allows us to do so. With regard to the quality of our resolution, it is true that we have a large number of complaints that we adopt, but this is the state of the file that the law requires. Secondly, we had in 3.4%, of which the number of cases was triggered by an administrative dispute, where 88%, pardon 82% of the Court of Justice's ruling whether to support our decisions, or reject lawsuits as unfounded. This shows in a certain way, although there is certainly, especially in individual cases, a series of problems that can be viewed in one way or another, including this fact that sometimes it is difficult to separate important from non-essential violations of the law. And if we take ourselves as a right, it's given right to a contractual body under the Public Procurement Act, if we take ourselves as the right to share in essential and irrelevant, then it's very difficult to draw a line of distinction between important and irrelevant. And here, I agree, there are some issues that we need to settle in the new law. The key issue in public procurement is now not even our relationship with the Public Procurement Agency. I think, or together, we feel that everyone should do their job. Public procurement agencies which have given her jurisdiction, the Office to decide on complaints. We meet, we discuss solutions. That item, point 8, seems to me, I'll see that we're doing it specifically in addition to one report, because as it's written, it really leaves doubts that there are reasons or something that directly affects the quality of law enforcement depends on co-operation between these two bodies. In any case, I say, it's very difficult to solve this great inflow of objects. I think the key question is, look, complaints are the consequences of public procurement. Let's go on that side... a new legislative framework. And all that needs to be done should go on the line of reducing the causes of conflict and the disputes that arise in the application of this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15595	Thank you. Gosodine Pilav, come in. I hope you will fit in at the time scheduled for this five-minute debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15596	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs of Parliament's House of Representatives, respected members of the Council of Ministers and Guests. I'm going to try as short a line as I can to expose some problems. I will not repeat what my colleague Kremenović said because everything he said is absolutely true. 90 From the number of complaints received and resolved, you can see the huge amount of work that the Board of Appeal has done, especially if you compare it with the number of complaints that similar authorities have in the countries of the region. I've kept saying here every year that there's an increase in the number of complaints. We followed that trend really as far as we could and I think that in other countries, when we talked to representatives of these bodies they were really impressed with the number of resolved complaints that the Office managed to solve with as many staff and with as many resources as it was made. The honourable letter, Mrs. Dervoz, listed what we mentioned, which we mentioned was that we were looking for additional funds and staff. The simple number of complaints has reached this critical mass that with as many staff as we have in the next period I can no longer expect better results than the Office has achieved and there will surely be a drop in number of resolved complaints. Especially with a situation that has been here since about November last year we've been working with a member of the office less, who resigned. So, given the momentum, the constant trend in increasing the number of complaints, the current staff situation, without some interventions on the side, cannot be expected to be more positive than the ones we already have, so that they can be realistically only weaker results in the next period, having all these circumstances. In addition, another thing that makes the situation more difficult, and let's say the Finance and Budget Commission which discussed this report was out of the question and could not have been considered, is the new Council of Ministers decision which came to the Office for the Review of Appeals on 22 May and the meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission was held on 15 May, so that it could not be covered for objective reasons, and this is the Decision appointing the new Chair of the Board of Appeals. However, most of the problems created in the Office were not due to the Parliamentary Assembly which has had very constructive conclusions since the beginning of our work, and the whole problem was that the Council of Ministers had simply failed to implement these conclusions adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly, namely both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly since 2007 and here. Thus, the situation with this is, in fact, the final conclusions that were identical in the House of Representatives and in the House of Peoples and, among other things, asked to be appointed immediately, in accordance with the applicable regulations, chaired by the Vice-President of the Office. However, these conclusions are not respected, no deputy has been appointed again, and it has not been established that the current chairman of the duties has not been resolved either. Now, when we see, in light of today's proposal to amend and supplement the Public Procurement Act by emergency procedure, you can get an answer to certain issues. In this law, which is on the agenda today, it is proposed to introduce a mandate, and based on the decisions of the Council of Ministers, which are not based either on the Law on Public Procurement, nor on the decisions of the Parliamentary Assembly, because the current members under these decisions do not have a limit on the duration of the mandate, the procedure for the appointment of new members was launched last year, and it is already in a more advanced phase, and here we have a situation that only today on the agenda of the House of Representatives is the amendment of the law that allows it. That's one side of the problem. The other side of the problem, which the same law is trying to solve, consists of the fact that the Office has been asking for at least a little more funds to be given, because then our ability to act would be far greater than it is now, and it has never been given. And here, let's say the introduction of a new office in Banja Luka and Mostar, with a minimum of five new members, staff and rent would mean a detachment of at least 2 million KM, because the current Office had about a million KM budget, that's some minimum funding. And so, 2 million if given for these new offices, to be able to work, with just a little bit more funds increase, the current office could solve a significant part of these problems. So this proposal wouldn't actually solve anything in this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. The third party, i.e. the third element of the basic proposal, consists of an increase in the tax. That's a very good offer to raise a cab. However, the bill has one flaw, and it consists of simply that law, which is before you today, has no solution for forced payment for those who will not pay that fee. We've had a problem for several years, we've been pointing out, that even under existing regulations, you can't necessarily charge a fee from those who won't pay. So the introduction of new taxis, without solving this previous problem, wouldn't solve anything. And let me just say this. So, as far as this problem is concerned that the current chairman has not been resolved, I would add only one more failure to exist by the Council of Ministers. In addition to the initiation of the administrative dispute, it was asked by the Council of Ministers to decide on a request for a postponement of that solution and under the current Law on Administrative Disputes of the Council of Ministers to decide within three days. The deadline was just on June 6th, and if we take objective reasons that the Council of Ministers could not have sat down that day for reasons that you all know, the decision had to be made so far because there was a meeting of the Council of Ministers after June 06th. It has not yet been adopted, so the issue remains open with possible consequences that may arise. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15597	Here it is, eight minutes, but we let the director say some of his observations about a law that wasn't on the agenda, but it was good to hear. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We're going to the 12th point, Ad. 12. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, the foreign courts provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012 You received your report 08.04. The relevant Joint Committee on Human Rights delivered its opinion on 29.05. The Commission adopted and supported the recommendations and conclusions set out therein and they read: 1. The competent institutions will step up their activities to build a state prison, putting prisoners and detainees from the jurisdiction of the Independent Commission in the same position as improving the conditions of their accommodation and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. 92 2. The competent state and entity institutions should provide financial resources to improve the conditions of stay in all criminal and correctional institutions in BiH, which will focus primarily on the reconstruction of existing and construction of new facilities, as well as on the employment of the necessary and missing management staff – personnel, health personnel and security personnel. 3. The competent authorities of the Federation of BiH, RS and Brcko District of BiH should comply with their laws in this area with the BiH ZIKS, as well as other implementing regulations and the BiH Ministry of Justice should adopt missing sublaws, with the goal of equal treatment with prisoners and detainees throughout the BiH area. 4. The independent commission will continue to require criminal and correctional services in BiH to provide feedback on the implementation of recommendations related to the shortcomings observed during the visit to the institutions, and to keep the collected information to the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, asylum refugees and the ethics of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. 5. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to ask the Court of Justice of BiH to comply with the powers of the Independent Commission, defined in Article 48. BiH law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures allows for its smooth work and communication with all detainees and in all KPZs, as well as... the premises in which the detainees are located. I'm reading this so we don't have to read when we vote on this, so this is read in a stenogram. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15600	Dear Chairman, I really want to know if you have agreed in the College until when Parliament will work, that I do not report at certain points, so that I do not extend Parliament's work and make it difficult for me to do so indefinitely. Have you agreed on how long we're working? I mean, do you in college have an attitude or do we work as far as we can, how do we do it?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15601	We're working as long as we can. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić, are you on this agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15602	Yes, it is. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15604	Thank you. Maybe today I'll talk a little bit more because we haven't worked for a month or two, so I have to justify when I get where I'm supposed to be. As far as this report is concerned, do we have a reporter here? I would just like to ask one question - what has been done from the moment the KPZ review was carried out until the moment, here until today, what has been done according to these recommendations to improve the lives of those persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15605	Dear Mr. Mile Lasić has a chance to answer you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15606	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, fellow MPs. This question is partly contained in the answer, it is located if we look at the report page 56. that is Chapter VI – Evidence of the realization of the recommendations. Thus, the Independent Commission went through all criminal and correctional institutions, made detailed insight into all their premises, carried out the findings, gave individual recommendations and, at the end of each year, in the annual report, and last year and this year, and in 2011 and 2012, made general recommendations. It was this House of Representatives and the House of Peoples that discussed last year's report and gave one conclusion that, to follow the realisation of these recommendations and appreciate that, here on the trail of this issue, representatives should be informed, not only of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, of the realization of these recommendations. The truth here does not contain all the recommendations, the realization of these recommendations, but only until half last year, estimating that there is not enough time left for some criminal and correctional institutions to follow these recommendations. Otherwise, as the President of the House has read, we want to find out and be voted in one conclusion here that we have one passing. Therefore, after visiting all criminal correctional institutions and recommendations made, it is necessary to monitor their implementation effectively so that it does not remain just a dead letter on paper, as indicated. Here, in our next report, and especially the Joint Commission on Human Rights will get the rest as recommended. And now, specifically, which office, to which recommendation, I don't know exactly what it's about, what we've collected, thanks to the conclusion of the House, we've delivered it here to you on the benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15607	I thank Mr. Lasić. 94 Dear fellow Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15608	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, let me take advantage of you while you're sitting. You're welcome to be commended, and when you sit down, so we've had a lot of problems with these criminal and correctional institutions and institutions. Thanks, of course, to you in the College too, too, who's in charge of the competent commission, and then we together in good coordination with this Independent Commission for the tour of these criminal and correctional institutions have found a good solution, i.e. make them tell us what they can do and tell us where the problems are to show us so that they can keep doing their job. And we're, as we say, solving it, and here, we've come up with some result, of course, it can never be satisfactory, because it's known what's going on, there's not people on the loose, there's always gonna be problems, there's gonna be more of them today, there's gonna be more of them. What's most important in all of this, I think, is that the Commission unanimously immediately adopted the report of this Independent Commission of ours. When I say a commission, the competent human rights commission and not to list everything as it is called in the right name, but it is understood. So, it would be good for the predstavnički of Representatives to strengthen, of course, what it has done whenever a unanimous decision has been made on a committee, and to give maximum support to this Independent Commission that they continue their work, in some segments of course to advance and speed it up, many problems are, because it is not the same to be in a criminal and correctional institution, let's say in Zenica where 800 is and I don't know how many prisoners, or in the open-air in Busovaca where no one knows who's in charge there, whether it's a cantonal organisation, whether it's federal, whether it's BiH level. So the sequence is a problem, it's not easy. But most importantly, we who decide, and we have a previous point, I don't know if two, about the welfare and protection of animals, these are our people. There are few foreigners in custody, not punishment, they have none, but in custody, in asylum. So these are our people that we have to take care of and protect their human rights, no matter how many convictions they're given, no matter what crimes they're for, they're our people. So we have to take care of everything. So that I don't owe much, I give and now, here in the House of Representatives, maximum support to the truly agile president of the commission who informs us about everything in time and when the problems are, even when they're good results. And what is good, which the members of the Commission know, always these people respond to the Commission's session, while by some other points or areas, or segments where they are competent, you can't bring it with the SIPA. That's what it is, whether it's competent or not, and I don't know, but you can't bring him in. But these people volunteer to show us on time and without our call, which shows they're seriously doing their job, that they've taken it professionally. And that's why Mr. President of the Independent Commission, here's a little bit to publicly commend you, thank you for working with your associates like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15609	Thank you. You see how we from SNSD pick people on subjects with experience. Okay. Is this about this or what? 95 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You're giving up. Tinker Zvonko, about this one or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15611	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15612	Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15613	Here, first of all, I must commend this commission which has made such a detailed report. And I congratulate you, yes, I'm glad that there's Mile, who did this means this. But reading this report, I believe there is some discrimination in BiH against these prisoners. Those who are in these detention and prison units in the Federation, they have the possibility of getting out faster, but I see that the Federation president took care because he had an understanding that they were bad conditions. Some of these recommendations have been met, are some not, but while there has been very little pardon when it comes to those from the RS, so we as Parliament must also do something on the subject, perhaps at the next session. So much now, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15614	Don't be applied. Let's move on, we're making a point. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda, Ad. 13. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear security from 2012, State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security of BiH The report was delivered on 16 April. The competent Commission for Defence and Security delivered its opinion on 23.05. The Commission proposed the adoption of the following conclusions. 1. The National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security of BiH is obliged to regularly submit to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly a report on the state of radiation and nuclear security in BiH each year in accordance with Article 9(2). Law on radiation and nuclear security in BiH ("F. BiH's messenger, number 88-072. 2. The State Regulatory Agency is tasked with providing funds in its budget to monitor the radioactivity of the environment in BiH. 96 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly is asking the State Agency to process and demonstrate the presence of radioactive substances in locations identified by UN environmental experts in BiH's future reports on the state of radiation and nuclear safety, as well as at the site for the destruction of ammunition and mine-explosive assets at the "odlučan Barbara" polygon in Glamoc. I'm opening a debate. Dear Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15616	I think we should say a few words about this important report, which the Parliamentary Assembly first received on its tables, although in 2007, the Law on Radio and Nuclear Security of BiH established a general control system. The fact is, here's the first time that we've received a report and certainly not even the Agency itself has experience in making reports and has missed a lot of things that should have been processed. That's why there's only a few information about it. First, the obligation for the Agency to submit reports every year. We have to write it now as a conclusion that the agencies will be delivering reports every year. That's a bad message, but then at least we'll have something to call on. A second conclusion, which says the State Regulatory Agency for Nuclear and Other Radioactivity is in charge of providing funds for the monitoring of radioactivity and the environment in BiH in its budget. It was truly devastating to know that we have no monitoring of radioactivity represented throughout BiH territory at all. They didn't plan the funds. And certain parts of BiH's territory are absolutely uncovered control of radioactivity. It's a devastating thing that, we've established the law, we've passed the law because of it, and in the end, we don't have a record of what's going on in our country. And the third most important thing. The Parliamentary Assembly shall require the National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security to in future reports on the state of radiation and nuclear safety, in particular, to process and display the presence of radioactive substances in locations identified by UN programme experts. What does that mean? Here they were, as you know, this territory was under NATO's operation and the UN programme that came to capture all of this was explored by locations and precise: radioactive locations in the territory of RS are – Lukavica, Brdo, Pjelugovica, Kasarna Han Pijesak, warehouse of artillery weapons in Han Pijesk where the presence of the poor uranium, Kasarna Koran Pale, the location of the barracks in Ustikolina, the bridge in the town of Foca, the location of the water tank in Kalinovik and the location for the destruction of ammunition in Kalinovik. The Federation of BiH -- formerly a tank repair facility in Hadzic, also found the presence of poored uranium, was found at 233 points contaminated; a ammunition storage facility in Hadzic, also found the presence of poored uranium; a former ammunition production facility in Vogosca; and a location for the destruction of ammunition on Bjelašnica mountain plateau. It is truly amazing that the Agency has not set up a programme for the control of poor uranium even though it is the reason why we set it up. So, what the UN findings are, we no longer had 97 measured by any domestic institution and gave its findings on this. Special attention should be paid to what is currently happening in the Municipality of Glamoč, that it is only a special problem. That's why the Ministry of Defense won't answer any questions, it won't say what's going on there and what they've done to measure these challenging points, which mean testing water, air and plants for human food. So this is a very problematic field, we've done very little dealing with it, and I think we should pay special attention and maybe even one thematic session to make things right on this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15617	Is anyone else answering for a word within this agenda point? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 14th item of the agenda, Ad. 14. Report on implementation of the BiH Central Election Commission's 2012 law Report's been delivered. I'm opening a debate. No reports, though. Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15619	Well, I think, Mr. Chairman, both colleagues and colleagues, it's important, therefore, the thing. At a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission that discussed this report, the proposal did not pass to form a new one or to reactivate an existing group of interparliamentary Ad hoc commissions that will work on amendments and additions to the Electoral Law and prepare BiH election legislation for the 2014 elections. And well, that didn't go, what can we do, right, that's how it is. But either this time or the debate of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law, which was established by the Council of Ministers and which came to us in the parliamentary procedure and which, with a high degree of probability, we can assume will have a failed outcome or a road to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, given the way in which the Council of Ministers voted, I draw attention to the need to form an inter-resor working group here to prepare election legislation for the 2014 elections. It doesn't have to be this time about this report, but the election law is best changed when three people from two homes sit on the commission, then four, in the Interresor Working Group, when in Interresorna, I apologize, Interresorna, I'm a little tired, the Interresor Working Group is sitting on three people from two homes, four men from this Election Commission and three men from the Council of Ministers, and we already have it as a practice and as an experience. I'm not going to propose this today because the Constitutional Legal Commission didn't pass this, but I'm just turning this around as a thing that will be necessary to do very quickly here in the Parliamentary Assembly. That's it, thank you. 98
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15620	The word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15621	I think that my colleague, to continue with what my colleague Džaferović said, I think there is no reason why we should not make another attempt and, yes, I suggest one conclusion that says: - The House of Representatives is asking the Interresor Working Group to amend the Election Law to continue working and that... the completion of the activities so far begins to consider and propose a solution to the recommendations set out in the report on the implementation of the BiH Central Election Commission's legislation in 2012. So, in addition to what has been done so far to include this section listed in the Central Election Commission Report. And I don't think there's really any reason why this Interressor working group that's been working on it doesn't go on and on and on and on and on and on what they're proposing. I don't know what we're waiting for. Here's September at our entrance, when we do anything. So, I think it's an alarming time and that's the conclusion we need to adopt.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15622	Replica, MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15623	I would just ask my colleague Majkić not to give the commission any... we are not giving any task, she has a report and to prepare for us to amend and supplement what they can agree on within that commission. Because if we give, they have some recommendations here in the Central Election Commission Report that there is no agreement on the Constitutional Commission either, so we wouldn't have a problem with that. So, I'm up for that commission to be reactivated. So we have it formed and I don't have any problem being those people who were sitting, they finished the job and didn't propose the law in, let them keep working. Give them three more months, let them continue with the mandate we gave them earlier. That could be the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15624	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15625	Well, it's nothing. You know what it is. I apologize for leading the controversy like this from the scene. So here in these recommendations you refer with a request to the Central Election Commission's recommendations. There are a few things that are problematic for a few...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15626	No microphone 99 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15627	But in conclusion, you refer to the recommendations. So they need to prepare for us to change and supplement, they know very well what it is that needs to be changed in the BiH Election Law, as we all know, right, without which there is no choice.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15628	I'm sorry. Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15629	It's not a replica. So I'm asking you to consider and suggest, so consider. Thinking can be both positive and negative.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15630	Okay. Is anyone in front of Izborna, we have, I apologize, a business intervention, Vice-President Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15631	My colleagues and colleagues. We need to agree on that, obviously we feel the same way but we don't talk about the same subject the same way. In fact, the commission did its job. This Parliament has ended her work. It's not actually a commission, it's an inter-resor working group. You would now have to task the Council of Ministers to re-delegate people, to task the Central Election Commission to delegate people. So, you can launch an initiative to rebuild an inter-resor group here in Parliament, which will be sent from the Council of Ministers to this inter-resor group, which will be sent from the Central Election Commission, we cannot decide on. So this commission has done its job and now it's a question of how to move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15632	Okay. The word has been given by the president of the BiH Election Commission, Mr. Stjepan Mikić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15633	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen deputies and deputies, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers. On behalf of my colleagues, I would like to make a real appeal to this Parliament to approach the realisation of the conclusions that you will make on the basis of, here is the report under consideration, any further proposals and our recommendations that we have made. I have to warn you here, or draw your attention to some of our recommendations, I'll have 16 of them here, look only at 3-4. As important as they are, I think he mentioned something, and Mr. Džaferović, don't make any statements, but about the problem that exists. 100 One of the recommendations concerns, he said, the provisions of the BiH Election Law should be harmonised with the Constitutional Court's decision, including the need to review the provisions of Article 9.11. BiH Election Law. This decision of the Constitutional Court shall apply to Article 9(3). The electoral law requiring the change of the name of the primary electoral units to three multi-member electoral units in the RS, from which MPs are elected at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. So now that article doesn't exist in the Electoral Law. Without him, we couldn't call the next election in general. I remind you, it's ten months straight. Time flies so fast, especially those who have a few years like me, so this job really needs to be approached urgently, whether it is, I do not enter into your decision and conclusion, reactivate or form a new interresor working group, but our recommendation is to solve this problem through or in that way. Secondly, another recommendation that I draw your attention to – to remove the perceived contradictions of changes and additions to the BiH Election Law, so that they have been implemented and related to gender equal representation on the candidate lists and in the choice of administration. It's that percentage of at least 40%. Because you see here we suggest that this interresor group or, in the end, we will, if there is no consideration of this problem in the interresor group, ask you simply how to implement this provision from at least 40% of the less-represented sex. So in a situation where we have members of the electoral administration, election commissions, election committees, where there are three, which the mathematician can calculate at least 30%. That's it. Furthermore, our third remark – Consider the provisions of Chapter 9.a) of the BiH Election Law relating to the election of the president and vice-president of the Federation of BiH, and in the context of Chapter 4 (b) of the Constitution of the Federation of BiH. What's the problem? The problem is that in Electoral Law Article 9.2. Election law, paragraphs 6 and 9. The Central Election Commission is responsible for the implementation of all direct and indirect elections. Now, if we have a high representative who is temporarily suspending certain decisions by the Central Election Commission of BiH at its 21st session, held on 24 March 2011, as well as all the procedures concerning the above-mentioned decisions, I will not quote the whole decision, but I must quote this part. So, I quote - considering that two decisions made by the Central Election Commission of BiH on its 21st anniversary are made. The sessions, held on 24 March 2011, address among other issues stemming from the Federation of BiH Constitution and which can therefore fall under the jurisdiction of the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court and therefore go beyond the framework of the BiH Election Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15634	Mr. Mikić, I'm sorry, but I'm obliged to draw attention to the fact that we've shortened the debate to five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15635	Yeah, okay. Here, I'll finish, I just remind you that, therefore, the same problem has been solved in the Election Law as in the Constitution, and we need to know whether we are responsible for the implementation of these indirect elections or not. Here, thank you. I had another one, but I respect it. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15636	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing item 14 of the agenda. We're going to the 15th point of the agenda, Ad. 15. Report on the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012, Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a discussion? Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15638	... or for which a serious debate was held in the Bosnian-Herzegovina public, and it is related to one of the conclusions following a debate on last year's report which we made last year and adopted conclusions, as regards amendments and additions to the Freedom of Access Act. I am now standing up to say that I am proposing to the House of Representatives to accept this report, but that, when the Law on Freedom of Access to Information comes to parliamentary procedure, I will be one of those who insists on having a public debate, parliamentary public debates on the subject, taking into account everything that is said about this law in the Bosnian-Herzegovina public and the concerns raised in these discussions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15639	Thank you. No more reported within the 15th item of the agenda. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda, Ad. 16. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2012 (scheduled debate at the 48th session of the House, held on 23.05.2013) I would like to remind you that the debate within this agenda item has been delayed several times due to the lack of the attorney general. Since today is the same situation we're in again, are we going to do a new prolonging or what? _________(?) 102 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15642	So there are several reasons why the chief prosecutor should come before this Parliament. First, we'd better see him and get to know him, and show him that besides respecting foreign representatives, he respects this House. To finally receive the information that came out of this report that he certainly doesn't know about. And that in addition to the opinion he cares about, to whom he holds, from a high representative, he would still have to care about what he hears at the House of Representatives session. The chief prosecutor who is unable to come and listen to what Parliament says about his report should have been the former chief prosecutor long ago. I ask you to keep this House on this and not end this point, we will hold sessions as long as this session has been extended because he hasn't shown up, but that he will eventually have to come, if we never do that at least when we change the D.A.'s Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15643	Okay. After this discussion and approval by the president of the SDA Club, Mr Sarajlić, I am putting this discussion to the vote now. Please prepare yourselves. Who's to postpone this debate for the next session and invite the chief prosecutor back to the session. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have adopted this conclusion. There's no video/a short shot. Ad. 17. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission on both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH and the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15646	Here, esteeming the time to say that the Commission has been waiting for some time to confirm the House of Peoples, and then for the constitution and has not worked full for three months, but quite a big job has been done. It's been a sincere pleasure working on this committee, I think it was a good atmosphere and a good job being done. I want to point out here that we have had good co-operation with USAID, delegations and OHR and the EU delegation, as well as the OSCE and two Friedrich-Ebert-Friedrih-Ebert-Stiftung foundations and Konrad-Adenauer-Adenauer-Stiftung. Already, it is not possible to make amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure without crossing 50% of the materials. And in that sense, one of these conclusions is that permission is required to propose new texts of businessmen, with the fact that I will give one conclusion to that in conclusion no. 2. The provisional joint commissions, which discusses continuing work in July, September and October, change and speak in September, October and November, since when we adopted this report, we did not have the Parliament's procedure in mind, nor could we have it come to a one-month break in Parliament's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15647	No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda, Ad. 18. Commission report on efforts to reach agreement on a motion for a resolution on the condemnation of genocide in Srebrenica - Proposers: MEPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić The college didn't achieve consent. There's no discussion here. I'm closing item 18 of the agenda. We're going to the 19th point of the agenda, Ad. 19. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on MP Denis Bećirović's initiative from the 46th session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.03.2013, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I submit the next parliamentary initiative, which is tasked by the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver the draft law on the diaspora of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the end of 2013."
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15656	... Mehmedović, so here I repeat that proposal again.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15657	All right. You remember well, but then we came to the conclusion that we needed an extended college to appoint, so for formal reasons, here's to supplement. The SDA proposal is MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. 106 Does anyone appear within this agenda? If there are no reports, I'll close the 25th point. Before we move to the 26th point, I suggest that the House declare itself to bring together the debate on points 26 to 30 of the agenda, because it is a matter of giving consent to ratify agreements and contracts. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority, that we have adopted this conclusion. Ad. 26. - 30. Granting consent for ratification of agreements and contracts You have received opinions from the Commission responsible for external affairs. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. So break till 7:20. At 7:20, we'll have a vote. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15660	Can I have a business intervention?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15661	Business? Well, it's not exactly scheduled for the vote, but here. A colleague of Živković's business. Here you go. 107
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15662	I thank the chairman. In fact, the practice so far here in Parliament has been one that suggests the first conclusion that their conclusions are discussed first. Moreover, some conclusions here, which I have also suggested, have nothing to do with the Commission for Defence and Security. What does the selection of the College of Secretaries or political conclusions relating to the Council of Ministers have to do with the Defence Commission? I suggest, since I haven't heard anyone say that these conclusions I suggested challenged or had any objection, that in a package of votes on these conclusions. In case it doesn't pass then let the Commission take these conclusions according to that conclusion by Mr Domazet and let him see and take from them those who don't respond, but we will lose time here in particular this conclusion number three, which I have proposed, would lose to give the Council of Ministers a deadline by the end of the month, you know. The Commission will work, we only have a 15th session, etc., etc. So first you ask me and I suggest you vote in the conclusion kit, and then after that Mr. Domazet we accept this conclusion, let them go if they don't pass there.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15663	All right, let's not spread the atmosphere, so fellow Živković, and I knew it before we put this together, is a business view of the administration, chronologically placed in order to deliver and so goes to the vote. We tried to take one step to make in this complicated case of 17 conclusions to make some content order so if it doesn't pass, however, we don't debate too much. We're going in order as whoever suggested their conclusions. So, first proposed the conclusions of Ambassador Milorad Živković, right? We have a total of six findings from fellow Živković and he insists, therefore, that we declare them in the package. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. For 13, versus 18, we don't have a general majority of these six conclusions. I find these conclusions were not accepted by the House of Representatives. We move to a vote on the conclusions of Milica Marković. A total of three.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15664	I'm sorry, but here, I really need to suggest. In a conversation with colleagues on the break, we all agreed that we were ready to make all other conclusions, respecting this intervention by colleaguesŽivković the competent commission that will process them and deliver them to the House of Peoples, pardon the House of Representatives. So, I really ask you, if there is, there is agreement, and I have heard that there is, to make a statement about the conclusion of my esteemed colleague Domazet, and that is how we end this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15665	Okay. Here, we're all agreed, so, at this point, we're gonna stop voting on this and we're gonna get to the bottom of this conclusion that would unite. 108
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15666	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15667	Is it business? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15668	...and including Mr. Živković's conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15669	All the conclusions, in that case, to go. All right, please prepare for the vote. Who's in favor of this conclusion? I agree that we have adopted this proposal in both general and entity terms, and thus ended today's vote under the third item of the agenda. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. We're voting, therefore, on an emergency request. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary general majority and entity majority and that we have accepted an emergency procedure. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No need, it's accepted. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15673	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15674	So, at the request of the promoter, we are now voting on a shortened procedure, not an emergency procedure. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. For 14, versus 19, we don't have a general majority. Therefore, this short proposal is not accepted and the law will be considered by regular procedure. We have a bit of an atypical situation here. Within this point, we have a proposal to conclude Senad Šepić's MPs, not a controversial conclusion, but this still cannot be within the framework, pulling whether, well, it will be okay. My colleague Šepić withdrew and that no, we are not discussing any further. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the law in first reading. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we adopted this law in our first reading. We're moving to the 7th point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15675	Business intervention. 110
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15676	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15677	Since no one was against it and we have great support for this Law, let them go to another reading. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15678	There's no need to explain it extensively, so it's planned today in the first place regardless of this strong majority. We go to the 7th item of the agenda – Report of the Joint Commission of both homes on the achievement of the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. We're voting on the adoption of the report. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. We have the necessary and general and entity majority, and I realize that we adopted this report. We move to the 8th point – Report of the Joint Commission of both homes on the achievement of the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Coordination of the Broba Against Corruption. We're voting on the adoption of the report. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have adopted this report. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – The Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2012 and the Financial Reports of the Central Bank of BiH for 2012. We're voting on the adoption of the report. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have adopted this report. We move to the 11th point – The report on the work of the BiH Appeal Office in 2012. We are voting on the adoption of the report with the conclusions of the Commission's Finance and Budget Opinion, two conclusions. 111 [[Common discussion]] And yet we have two more conclusions, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15680	We've got one.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15681	Who's that one? Yes, yes, we have two, these are two conclusions from the Finance and Budget Commission and one conclusion from Dušanka Majkić, here's to clarify. First we vote on these conclusions and the commission's report. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What are we voting separately? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15684	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15685	So can we vote on these two conclusions with these transformations delivered by colleague Magazinović? Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I agree that we adopted this report with conclusions including these interventions by MP Saša Magazinović. 113 We move to 18. – The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on a motion for a resolution on the condemnation of the crime genocide in Srebrenica – Proposers: MEPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić. We're voting on the motion for a resolution in the second round. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I find that the motion for a resolution has not received the necessary support in the second round because of the absence of an entity majority. We move to the 19th item of the agenda – The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's initiative from the 46th session of the House of Representatives. And here we vote on the initiative in the second round. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I find that this initiative in the second round of voting did not receive the required majority, i.e. because of the absence of an entity majority. We move to the 20th item of the agenda – The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Zijad Jagodić's initiative from the 43rd session of the House of Representatives. So we're voting on the initiative in the second round. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I find that MP Zijad Jagodić's initiative has been given the necessary and general and entity majority and that it has been adopted. Given that this initiative is only a little attention now especially the SDA Club, since this initiative was adopted that proposal for the conclusion of fellow Fazlić in this case should not be voted on. Okay, we move to the 21st point of the agenda – Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament Nermine Ćemalović on the annual report on the results of the activities of the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution and the Annual Report on the occurrences of discrimination in BiH for 2012. We are voting on the proposal for a conclusion in the second round. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I find that this conclusion in the second round has been given to the required majority and adopted. We move to the 22nd item of the agenda – Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament's Senad Šepić on the annual report on the results of the activities of the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution and the Annual Report on the occurrences of discrimination in BiH for 2012. So here we are voting on the draft conclusion in the second round. 114 Please prepare. Vote now. I find that in the second round and this conclusion he's got the necessary majority, so he's adopted. We move to the 23rd item of the agenda – Report from the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Milorad Živković on the discussion of the Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's memos. That's the conclusion you got so I don't read it again. Please prepare to vote in the second round. Vote now. _________(?) He can vote again. At the request of the SDA Club, we repeat the vote. Please prepare to vote again. Vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15687	Let's do it one more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15688	So you realize there are three votes missing, right, only if the last lines up there change their minds that we're going to go to another vote. Okay, I'm saying that... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here's the thing, though.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15690	Please don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-08-0.u15691	However, he has the right, he has the right to request another vote from the SDP MPs' club. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. I conclude that the proposal for the conclusion of my colleague Milorad Živković was adopted in the House of Representatives. 115 We move to the 24th item of the agenda – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Niko Lozančić on the discussion of the Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's memos. And that's the conclusion you got. We are voting on the proposal for a conclusion in the second round. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. I find that this second conclusion of counterpart Niko Lozančić was adopted, although he is quite similar to this previous one. We move to the 25th item of the agenda – Proposal for a conclusion on the appointment of members of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to identify possible irregularities and abuses and conditions in the BiH Direct Taxation Directorate – Proposers: SNSD Club MPs. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. Who's in favor of Šemso being in this group? I find that with one vote we have abstentioned. Now, first of all, I would like to put the motion to the vote so that we can declare ourselves on points 26 to 30 in the package. Please prepare. Vote now. I realize we have the necessary and general and entity majority. We are now voting on giving consent to ratifying agreements and contracts. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general majority, both entity and general, and that we have adopted, or have given consent to ratifying agreements and contracts. I hereby conclude the work of the 49th session of the House of Representatives and remind all MPs that the next session is planned and scheduled for 18 July 2013. Thank you for your cooperation. Session completed at 7:55 p.m.
