ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17664	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, today we are continuing the 55th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was interrupted on 24 October 2013. At this session, we invited our regular guests as at the beginning, and I warmly welcome all present employees and guests. The absence was justified by MPs: Božo Ljubić, Saša Magazinović, Amir Fazlić, Aleksandra Pandurević and Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. According to service information, 25 MPs are present at this time. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. I would remind you that at today's session, we are considering points, points 5 to 17 of the agenda. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda now, Ad. 5. A request from the SDS Club for consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure I would like to remind you, the draft law requesting an emergency review was delivered on 09.10.2013. I'm opening a debate on the fifth agenda. Here you go. Business, deputy chairman Milograd Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17666	Thank you. We're on the fifth item of the agenda that exactly lists the Law we're considering, along with the number that came from our Office. My question – Since we have two bill proposals with the same number received at the Office, one of which is the Law, the Bill of Law has two members, and the other has only one member, which law are we discussing here today? A question for the chairman and secretary. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17667	I'll ask the secretary of the House of Representatives to take the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17668	I welcome you all. This is about the following, so the other law is valid because it was a correction of technical error. This Law, the text of the Law where there is both a Article 1 and a Article 2 with reasons is the Law which has been delivered to all MPs, as it has been done so far in the procedure, always, means retailes for every session we have had such things, and always correct technical errors and MPs have always been informed in time, as now all MPs have been informed in time and all have received this second, new version of the Law. Both of them, since the 09.10 version, are the same number, both of them, only this second version, where they have two laws, means Article 1 and Article 2 where it is added when the law comes into force.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17669	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17670	09.10 and one and the other. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, it's the same number. It's the same number of protocols. People couldn't give you another number. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17673	I thank the secretary. The word has been made by Vice-President Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17674	Apparently, the past composition of the SDS was a little more written than this one. In fact, to Mr. Okolić's insistence, we put in writing the number of laws adopted in the office to be on the agenda. If you remember, it was also a small complication, but if there were more different laws, we could have known which one was carrying a regular number. Right now we have two of the same laws, with the same regular number, and different members. I think it would be best if the motionary would explain to us what this is about and how it happened that two of the same laws were given, or two of the same numbers to get, and different members inside. And to know here is this law withdrawn, do we now have the right law that 3 we are discussing, because here's Mr. Džaferović, tell me what number to take the law to discuss, because I have two laws?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17675	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17676	Yes, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17677	The word has an MP, Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17678	Well, now about these comments, members of the Presidency, about the literacy of the SDS Club, I would draw your attention that this is not an appropriate speech, that you do not need constant insults and that this is not something that will raise your ratings and your education and your mind, the perception of your education and your intelligence with your voters. So I'll explain what the motive of this bill is. The motive of the proposal... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What's the problem, what's the problem, can I discuss it? _________(?) ... Mr. Živković... we don't know what... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17680	A colleague of Bosić answered for his word. I expect to make this very clear on behalf of the club. Here's what they're gonna talk about now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17681	So please, you've got the secretary's argument about what's a valid object, which is a valid proposal and I don't know what's controversial, can I continue the discussion as a proposing? Therefore, the reason SDS proposed this Law is the situation that the Constitutional Court annulled the practical provisions of the Law and that unless the new law was passed, we would not be able to hold elections in 2014. It's a situation that's already been seen several times. The last situation was with a unique home number and the SDS felt that at any cost it was necessary to avoid such a situation and propose to the BiH Parliament that this technical change of the electoral law be adopted and in some way prevent a potential blockade of next year's elections. 4 We are aware that this Law is not, the BiH Election Law as it is now not ideal, that it should be changed, we have nothing against the procedure of amending the Election Law, when someone initiates this procedure, we will participate in these changes in our own way, we will give amendments, we will give our opinion. But in this proposal, that was not the intention, in this proposal it was the intention to disable the situation that would lead to the 2014 election blockade. There is no dilemma that there are political factors that would love and there will be no elections in 2014, but I think you all realize that not implementing legal elections in accordance with the law and the prescribed procedures would mean the start of anarchy and total powerlessness, i.e. chaos, which would lead to a situation that institutions and authorities have virtually no legitimacy to rule. So this is a technical proposal, with the sole intention of avoiding a potential blockade in the inability to negotiate new provisions, a new law. We're aware that there's some SDP and SNSD proposal about an election law that wasn't welcomed here in the Assembly, I don't know what happened to him at the Council of Ministers, I don't know if he'll come here in the process. When it comes to procedure, no matter who the promoters are, we will constructively participate in the expectation that there will be a better solution to the Electoral Law than we had before the Constitutional Court practically brought down this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17682	I'm taking a 20-minute break and calling a session of the Joint College. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. So, in the break, the extended College of the House of Representatives met. We've discussed this issue, and I would now ask the SDS's promoters to explain what a valid proposal is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17684	The secretary's explanations, here's his insistence from the SNSD Club, so the second proposal is valid.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17685	The word has an MP, or deputy chairman Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17686	Thank you. I think it was important that we clarify the situation with regard to the proposals and that the burden of error that was made here, uh, on technical services, the office, and especially not on the secretary, but on the one who apparently had a problem proposing an adequate bill. And I believe that an exceptional intellectual effort was needed to propose this bill, especially when only one member was taken from the already proposed Council of Ministers Act, which dropped here 5, but could not go one step further, that a mandatory member, and that is the publication in the "Official Messenger" added. I don't think this proposal was even correct or wise. It is not correct because all the clubs of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in 2011, and we know who is in the National Assembly the majority and who is all the bad things, which are potentiating from the SDS, down in Banja Luka worked and was responsible for managing and managing the government, and all good things, such as this bill, which in the Constitutional Court righted all MPs from the National Assembly to be right, wants the SDS to put on their balance, as if they had proposed this Law in this year. He was not correct to other MPs here from the RS who should practically be unique in proposing this Law, not for petty own and political reasons for SDS to propose it in this ratio. He wasn't wise either, because we have a hard fight to fight against and get the right and complete law, the Electoral Law in BiH. We have one draft here, and there will be a lot of debates about closed lists, there will be discussions about election units, there will be discussions about Mostar City, and there will be discussions about censorship. It's not a smart thing to take into, uh, considering it's done immediately before the election laws are discussed. The motives that the SDS have offered are not the ones that are listed here, that they fear the elections will not be called. The election will be called, not because the SDS wants it, but because the SNSD wants it, and your obligation, we need it only in the coming time to examine which one is according to the BiH Constitutional Court, to hurry up and run to propose this one obligation on your own, I ask you what about, say, investigating crimes against Srbin in Sarajevo. And that is one Constitutional Court decision that is not respected and many of those decisions that are not respected, and you are running that this Constitutional Court decision is respected or you have, and in the coming period we will see, some agreements with the international community, which together with them by the dictatorship and the agendas they have made, you as a party want to meet them. We'll see all that next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17687	Thank you. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17688	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17689	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17690	No, no, I didn't give up, but the man is pressing the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17691	I don't have that information. Do you have a replica, you're looking for a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17692	No microphone 6 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17693	So, just one piece of information, I'm going to ask professional services to train the technique. The word, i.e. the replica, has an MP, Mladen Bosić, and then the first one for discussion is Mr Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17694	So I have no intention of competing with Mr. Živković in bickering, philosophizing and carrying out negative energy here in Parliament and in the House of Representatives. So what I'm really worried about is that we're even discussing this. This should be a technical matter, and since we're having a discussion and we've come across this obstacle and we're refusing at the very beginning of the discussion, things are clear to me. If he could've passed your proposal that you negotiated with the SDP, I wouldn't have put this in here. The situation taught with a unique home number is clear that the situation will come here that we can't even agree on the Electoral Law because they have different interests. It's not the same situation when the Single Parent Code is rejected and the Law is rejected, when there is no Election Law. I warn you one more time, if there's no Electoral Law, if it's an alibi that there's no choice, we get into chaos and anarchy. If it's not possible to raise your hand that this technical question that we thought we wouldn't even discuss, that there's no need at all to discuss, because it's clear to everyone, if it can't go through this House, then I'm really going to think about what's going to happen in this year. And you can imagine what it means after October 2014, a government that has no legitimacy to exercise power. And challenge every decision. And what that could mean in such a hot political atmosphere here.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17695	Replica, deputy chairman Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17696	I don't replicate, I don't pollute with individuals, I replicate with parties and their attitudes. Technically, it was a technical mistake to propose the law, this is a technical question. You know what they say. You're free and you're engineers when you're little. I ask – what will happen to the vital national interest of your colleagues, though ours, from the U.S. Constitutional Court, if we accept that part, if we will once again sharpen the issue of home number here in Parliament to consider, where their request, that they should only go on changing the names of cities, be the main here and deciding on the problem... say. He says, "Why should we go to the part concerning the region of origin?" Do you realize how much trouble you're causing and damage to the RS?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17697	The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17698	I'm really impressed by what kind of masters we are to escape from the essence, or the metrics. Well, I'll be back, so we're discussing an emergency procedure request. I will support the request for an emergency 7 procedure and not for technical reasons, nor because it is a technical matter, nor whether the elections will happen or not, so it is all something that is consequences, my reason is the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision. So, if you had a chance yesterday, I think, in the media Zvonko Mijan from the BiH Constitutional Court Registers presented the data as to how many rulings the Constitutional Court was unimplemented, so somewhere around 80. And of course, we, as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, are also contributing to this figure, because other than this thing we hope to solve today, we have a few more people repeating it. So, my basic motive is to implement the Constitutional Court Decision in the way I have proposed in my own time, to agree here or in conclusion or fair play some, to implement the rulings of constitutional courts both in spirit and in the letter of what the Constitutional Court says, not to spread the experience, because the practice has shown us whenever we have done that we have entered into problems. So, so much for the reasons I'm going to support this emergency procedure. Of course these procedures are fulfilled, it's simple law, understanding etc. However, I will take the opportunity and two sentences to say. This is a warning, or, in my view, a reason to consider when it comes around this Rules of Procedure here to decide on changes and additions, I think that, regardless of what is justified, there is an emergency procedure, etc., we may have to introduce some mechanism, so that at least 24 hours or 48 hours before we arrive at the benches, that people are obliged to give it, and that some body, professional body at least of this elemental matter looks at in terms and technical regularity, compliance with other things, etc., because we do happen that we, including me, are not always to the end of precision, etc., and then these things that we met today happen. I think this situation is worth considering, in some ways, having an emergency procedure subject to a kind of checking that the basic elements of this nomotechnical rule have been fulfilled. Here, I'm sorry I got a little off the subject and all this other stuff, but I think they're useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17699	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17700	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. The current state of the electoral law or electoral legislation in BiH is such that the current state of affairs would not be able to hold elections for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, as there are some provisions missing in the Constitutional Court's Electoral Law, first declared unconstitutional, and then put them out of force. And one of those provisions is actually a provision contained here in Article 1. A proposal to supplement BiH's election law, submitted by the SDS Club, allows us to have the necessary capacity to call the elections and hold the elections. I know that there are a number of discussions in BiH on other issues concerning election legislation, whether there are or not agreements or agreements, but whether they are discussed or whether these discussions for the result had a law or an amendment and an amendment to the law or not, it does not affect whether or not they can hold elections in BiH. This Law, which is therefore proposed, is a law that removes the possibility of elections not being held in BiH at the time of next 2014 because, in accordance with the Court's decision, it norms the issue that the Constitutional Court has put out of force. 8 And therefore this bill should, therefore, be supported, we should bring it to BiH as soon as possible, unbound for any other question. All the other questions, let the discussion go, we can change the electoral law once more, twice, three times, but this is what is a condition without which you cannot go to elections, condicated son qua non. That is why I call, therefore, for Parliament to take this proposal very seriously. When it comes to the procedure, we are prepared to support, of course, all possible types of procedures and emergency procedures, but here in the Law itself, there are one or two technical errors that can be corrected or cannot be corrected. And that's why it wouldn't be bad for the Proposer to think about us setting out a short procedure for this bill, unless there's a repair of these mistakes and then in a shortened procedure, we settle this issue as soon as possible, and we have fulfilled assumptions for holding elections. A discussion is being held about the implementation of the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci verdict, so there will be a big discussion, there will be a discussion on other issues as well. There will probably be a need to look back on the Election Law by the start of the election process, but I say this is a condition without which elections cannot be discussed. There's, like, here, I'll say right now, let's say, nine terms behind three multi-member constituency units. It says here "Isa" in the text that I have on me. This is a mistake, so this needs to be fixed, thought "from 3 constituency" etc., and some more details. It would not be bad if this were reviewed within a short period of time by the Constitutional Commission following this logic Mr Belkić spoke of. The emergency procedure, it does not mean any control of this text, it means voting on the text on the principle of "take" or "leave," just as it was written. But here, if it's possible to fix, let's say this technical error, we'll also support this emergency procedure. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17701	Thank you. Another replica, deputy chairman Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17702	I would like to remind my colleague Džaferović that on several occasions, even myself, we were in a commission that was making amendments and additions to the Electoral Law and that there was a lot on the table and proposals and possibilities and various variations on members. But always and ultimately, the commission proposed to Parliament harmonised amendments and amendments to the electoral law. It has never happened to go with all the proposals, and it has also allowed those who have not passed their proposals in the commission to act in Parliament at the amendment stage on certain members. So there is no concern that even now, when she does, and I believe that, and you have suggested that several times that the Commission will be formed to amend and supplement the electoral law, the same will not happen, that we will discuss both the unconcessed and agreed members in that law, which has been this one and so far and I see no reason why she would not be now and agreed and of all the concessed amendments to enter the Election Law. 9 Therefore, there is no reason why elections will not be called, because there has always been enough consensus in this House to agree on what we agree on and vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17703	Ambassador Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17704	Practically a replica is the way to conduct the debate. So, we're not discussing a request for procedure, but we're going in terms of things, of course, and beyond, so I suggest we say right away – if we adopt an emergency procedure request that we are considered to have conducted the debate and the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17705	The word has an MP, Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17706	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I answered for two reasons. So the first is to say that I support this emergency procedure request. I also agree with the measure of what the proposings have proposed, and I agree with what Beriz said, if after these discussions, which we have quite exhausted, we will already consider that we have had the debate. But the other thing is I wanted to say, so there are certain obvious dilemmas whether or not they will, whether or not they can be delayed. In this context, I also understand this Law proposed by colleagues from the SDS and in that sense, so it is necessary to remove the slightest possibility that someone might manipulate something by questioning whether elections will be called next year. And the other thing I answered was this bigger story. So we know that there are political arrangements for parties about how the new Electoral Law should look. Since for a year and a half, we're kind of just talking somewhere in the towers about it, we're approaching the election year, I suggest that we agree that what we do about the Election Law must be done in 2013 and that in a certain way it is said that the election law in the election year will not be discussed. So, to remove any kind of manipulation, any kind of abuse, so that what was discussed, especially about open lists, closed, central and what is called, polling stations, places where votes will be centrally counted, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17707	Emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17708	These big debates, I understand the chairman, but let me finish this part, and I suggest that large debates be made in 2013. Thank you very much. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17709	The word is from Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17710	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Here, we continue with the already established practice in this House to promote principles but every one for itself. When it suits him, he stands up to those principles, probably counting, each such pronouns, for a brief memory of each and every one of us individually. We, unfortunately, have an election law that has challenged the Constitutional Court in some parts of it at least in two generally known cases. There may be more reasons to dispute the provisions of some of the Electoral Law, but no interested appeal has yet to be found, so we have no further rulings. And what impresses here is the arguments that say that, here's the consensus I'm going to say, like we need to solve some technical things. Just so we don't bring this down to such technical matters, did we define ourselves and establish standards that there are decisions of the Constitutional Court that we will implement and decisions of the Constitutional Court that we will not implement? For me, it's a very simple implementation of both the Constitutional Court decisions, for me. I don't know what anyone thinks this one's simpler than the other one. I appreciate he's thinking, but I'm going to remind my colleagues who are now heartily supportive of a solution that I've essentially got nothing against, and I'm going to say I have nothing right now because this, in my opinion, is as simple as the other one, I'm against these principles. So, I'm going to remind my colleagues who have exhausted us in the past convocation of every legal and legitimate decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to determine the names of the settlements. Does it bother you any longer that at least 5-6 seats here have lost the Bosnian prefix? When did you decide not to bother you anymore? Now that is proposed by these amendments to the Electoral Law that are technical. It's technically becoming for you now. For me at the time, it was regular, no matter how personally I liked it or not, because it was done by institutions that were competent under the Constitution and the law. Also, as much as I liked it or didn't like it, some of the solutions that apply to the Electoral Law, they did, I respect them until someone challenged them. However, the Constitutional Court also disputed the provisions of the Electoral Law concerning the City of Mostar. It's a very simple solution. The town of Mostar solves as well as all other units of local administration and self-government, and that is a technical solution. I don't know what we're making of him politically, now I don't know by what standards. By what standards is this a complex question, and this simply? I don't think we should, we shouldn't at least, we shouldn't fall into the trap of selective application of the rules, selective implementation of the Constitutional Court decisions, selectively, otherwise how it suits us, because I don't think there's going to be a contribution to anything. You know, then it's not a contribution to anything, because then the question that the standards will even apply to any of us in any other, to any technical, some key political issue. So, I think we should take care of it, means we get everybody up for ourselves, but also collectively certain standards, and we don't go into selective implementation because it's very dangerous, so this Constitutional Court decision is going to be carried out, this second one won't, and when we do the second one or the third one, Bog knows, because who doesn't care, it doesn't matter to anyone that still a year after the elections have been held in all the other units of local administration and self-government, which in the City of Mostar. What difference does it make that they're not? Now we're worried about what's going to happen to the election in a year, and we're not even worried that there's no election going on for a year. So what are the standards? So just give me 11 to bring the standards in line. Against this individual's solution, that he doesn't lack these principles, I personally don't mind. So I don't mind, against this solution. But I'm sorry, we don't have the right, so we don't have the right to selectively approach the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision and take what we like, and what we possibly don't like, leave to someone else. So for these reasons, we won't support the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17711	Thank you. The Republic has an MP, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17712	Mr. Lozančić, don't worry about the SDA attitudes. The U.S.A. knows exactly when and how to do it. We know what the adoption of this law means, we know what the Constitutional Court's decision is. And this is the Constitutional Court's decision that the SDA doesn't like, but the SDA, if it respects the Constitutional Court, and respects, then respects, therefore, that decision. The issue of the name of the towns and municipalities in BiH should be a question for all of us in BiH, not a unilateral issue of just some, and we will see what to do further with the issue, when it comes to the law of the RS that regulates the area. And don't worry, the SDA is taking a lot of care of that. This is only respect for the Constitutional Court Decision and allowing elections to be held in BiH. And this is, therefore, the only decision, i.e. the only law missing that is possible in BiH to hold elections and therefore, we support this. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17713	Replica, Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17714	Dear counterpart Džaferović, if the SDA's views were to result only in the SDA, believe me, I would not worry at all what the SDA thinks. However, the position of each of us has a consequence for all of us together, and I think it is not good for me, knowing you well, I am amazed at your views and the approach to support the selective application of the law, i.e. selective implementation of the Constitutional Court decisions.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17715	Ambassador Mladen Bosić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17716	So I would draw attention to what is happening exactly what we have warned, that here it is from Mr. Lozančić's discussion clearly that this package, which should wait, is either not going to happen or it will be very difficult and that again and on this law we will have an attempt to block the institutions. And it's something similar to what happens with Sejdiu-Sejdić-Finac's decision. We have come to the question of the election of the Croatian member of the presidency. From the issue of elections for the BiH Parliament, we have come to the question of elections in the 12 city of Mostar. And I remind you of the other day that I said, there's an institution blockade in here, and I'll repeat, the axles of that blockade are a link between Dodik and Čović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17717	Ambassador Drago Kalabić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17718	I thank the chairman. Well, over the past few days, the SDS has said a series or somehow fired a series of heavy accusations that have all fallen into the water. As quickly as they were drawn together, they fell quickly into the water, but they do not mind further accusing everyone in this House. Today is a very difficult charge that people here are against choices. I don't believe there's anyone crazy in this House that's against the election. I do not believe that anyone here is sitting who thinks, which is currently found in this House, that wants to secure the position of being here for the next 30 years. I think it's a very incorrect accusation that really doesn't make sense. If it is directed, and it is directed to the SNSD among other things, we only pressed the tasters here a few weeks ago that allowed the elections. Well, if we'd been against it, we'd have had our chance. Our support for this law has enabled elections. Just because he's not voted for other reasons doesn't mean you're accusing the SNSD in such a miserable and incorrect way. This approach to counterblocks, I say that someone is looking at the BiH Parliament as a self-serving service from which he wants only to take the part of his interest, a capitulant approach to such a heavy matter, that it just wants to take what he wants. And there's no principle. If it is said that this law is going, since there are no agreements on other things, to allow elections, I don't know why the SDS, which has been proven in the past days as a Bosnian-Herzegovina party that cares for all BiH citizens in the entire BiH territory, then why did it not ensure that we have elections in the territory of the whole of BiH. And here's the only principle they got caught up in. It fell into the water. We don't. Because here it is said that you also care for the citizens of Banja Luka, and Bihac, and Mostar, here you can see that Mostar is not in. So that principle is false. And then you should have honestly said -- we don't care about anything here, we're interested in elections in the RS, if we could just sort it out, the rest of you can manage. It's a fairer, fairer approach. This problem is very complex, and that's why it's a problematic procedure. I'm convinced, again I say, as I think I don't believe that any of my colleagues here are against the election and that they won't do, when it comes to the election itself. And what follow-up decisions will be, how anyone will decide on other issues and what the result of those decisions will be, is something else. That is why it is problematic, of course, that is why it is problematic that we do not capitalize on not even giving a chance in the regular procedure of other solutions where we have this solution that is not disputed for anyone or for anyone. And what fear of giving others the chance to try and fix other things that are very bad? It's not only the Constitutional Court's verdict, it's what's happening in the election process, which we all here have found to be very, very controversial and needs to be fixed. Do those who find themselves in election thefts not want to change anything there because they're doing well because they steal from cycle to cycle, because every time they have a current procedure where they get along very well and they don't want anything to change there. And every time it happens again. But we haven't changed anything here, and now we've decided to change something and then they say that's what we want to block. 13 If anyone wants to solve Mostar's question, so if it's a sincere wish, I don't think there's a request for a blockade in that desire. Whether it will come to that or not, but it is incorrect to declare it a request for a blockade. And also for, if someone wants to fix election procedures, if someone wants to be counting fairer, so it's not a request for a blockade. If someone wants a democratic debate on open and closed lists where half of the democratic countries have one or the other solution. Is that a request for a blockade? What we're looking for is a partial, capitalist solution and a public recognition of the inability to do anything else but let's get our hands on the election. There'll be some power after that. So if we don't do anything else, what we need that power, anyone, anything. Did we today, if we support this, send a message to the public – we are only interested in the elections and we are not interested in anything else. And now we've made sure that the choice will be, one of us will be the government and the rest of you will manage as you know and can. Just one request, and that's an emergency procedure request. Without that request, all my arguments fall into the water, because then one democratic procedure is allowed, one small party here wants to impose its opinion on the rest of Parliament that it is obliged to follow it because it is only right and only it wants BiH well and it solves BiH's problems, and at the next point it will say that they are not interested in other problems, that it is a matter of power. Well, gentlemen, why isn't this a question for most of us? No, I don't. Of course, no question is just for the majority and the opposition, but all the questions are for everyone, but we're not principled. And then we get into this situation so we can block it this way knowing it won't go away. But again, I say not to dispute the democratic right of the proposal, as we do not run to tell our own court about it. But it's really wrong to look into people's eyes and tell them – you want to stay here for 50 years and you do it that way and all those people who suggest a solution. I may not agree with those solutions, but I respect the democratic efforts of all those who try to make some changes in the Election Law, that is their right, that is their view. This is a very difficult matter, and it is incorrectly conscious in this way, assuming that it escapes the election. That's not true. We haven't come to a solution because it's a very difficult matter and an eye that we haven't reached agreement with, and it has nothing to do with the election. After all, the election story was complicated by the Constitutional Court, which is its right, by its decision, and not by us here that we used some kind of mechanism to do so. For this reason, of course not against the essence but against this kind of approach itself in the essence of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17719	Thank you. Two replicas. Ambassador Mato Franjičević, first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17720	Well, I have answered to correct the incorrect assumption, in my opinion, that the incorrect allegations by colleagues of Bosić, which, by the way, we must say that he has had much better discussions so far. He did not, counterpart Bosiću, block an institution's application for principle and a request for non-selective implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court. It could possibly be a blockage of indiscipline, it could be a blockade of political... but certainly not a blockade of institutions. On the contrary, this way that is with us, not only on this occasion, but very often, on the agenda, and which is constantly serving us to commit 14 to things and to those principles that are acceptable to us at that time and that are already in favor of us, and that are already in the afternoon these same principles when we are not acceptable to us deny. I think that is where the real danger lies, and that there lies a true blockade of BiH institutions and blockades on its way to becoming a normal prosperous state to measure all three constituent nations and all its citizens. When you mention our debates about life, the way it can be brought to life, the Court of Justice's verdict in Strasbourg, so you know very well, I don't doubt you know it, that this verdict can be realized in different ways. And you also know that each of these different ways has repercusions in many ways, not only on the status of others, not only on the status of non-Croats, Bošnjak, or Srbin, that there are current repercusions and on the status of these three constituent peoples and these discussions in variants a) and in variant b). And the variants a, which may be more acceptable to you or to someone else, also touch the status of the Croatian people as the variants b) are touching, now I speak from this position, also touching the status of the Croatian people. Only in one case would solutions, so in one case and another,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17721	Replication timed out.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17722	Here's one sentence: The Court's rulings in Strasbourg would be brought to life and discrimination would be eliminated. But in the first case, in a way to concreteise the unequal position of the Croatian people, and in the solution b) in a way that it does not concreteize but becomes equal.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17723	Ambassador Borislav Bojić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17724	So, my colleague Franjičević, I spoke last time about the threat as a means of achieving the goal, but what you are saying now is the most about blackmail in order to achieve the goal. So, however, Bosić explained it very well. So it seems to me that you are now moving to this second phase, in addition to the threat that is a means in a political sense through which certain objectives are provided, here it is now moving to blackmail that will become, unfortunately, how we are now acting and the rule in relations between political parties, when it comes to providing certain political goals. Comrade Kalabić, a few things you said speak more about you than what you talked about, especially when you talk about misery, inaccuracy, etc. Next thing you know, when you're talking and trying to demean someone else, be sure not to just stand there. And I don't know why you're so scared, colleague Kalabić, as you say yourself, of that little political party. That little political party is shaking you up, I'm not gonna tell you what. So, it's not so small, it's just as strong as the SDS, and you'll have a chance to make sure in the next election, don't underestimate anyone, no matter how small, in your opinion. As far as everything else is concerned, Mr. Kalabić, when you spoke about the content itself, you say that there are, therefore, essential things that are acceptable to you. Okay, let's talk about the essence, so let's make it clear that the SDS proposal is essentially what is acceptable for RS representatives. If it is acceptable for RS representatives, I do not know why this would not be acceptable for you, and that you are not committed to whether it is SDS 15 or whether it is something that is acceptable for the RS. It's high time you started using a racio, not to treat it the way you showed it, among other things, here in terms of everything you've directed towards the SDS.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17725	Second replica, Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17726	Well, fellow Bojić, it is difficult to call the requirement to leave our position, from the position of representatives of the Croatian people, to go to the life of the Court of Justice's verdict in Strasbourg and to eliminate, I stress and eliminate, discrimination of others in a way that will also be a walk towards a more equal position of the Croatian people. It's hard to call it blackmail. But if you're going to call it blackmail, then I'm not arguing with you on that right. We, of course, will do everything from our position to eliminate discrimination against others, not in a way that will concreteise the inequality of the Croatian people, but which will be a walk towards abolishing this inequality. And I don't know what's going on here, and what's unacceptable to you?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17727	Second replica, MP Borislav Bojić. Comrade Bojiću, replica, will you use your right to replicate?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17728	Of course I'll use it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17729	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17730	Thank you. Well, you see, colleague Franjičević, you say there won't be a choice unless it's settled, as you say, the Croatian question, right? So we are not dealing with the issue of the ruling of discrimination against others, but we are dealing with the crucial issue of the position of the Croatian people here. If you want us to consistently resolve the issue of the Strasbourg Decision that says discrimination should be resolved against others, then that is the only way to resolve it in a very simple way. However, it is your desire, among other things, to use the Strasbur verdict, which speaks among other things and to discuss discrimination against others to resolve the issue of the position of the Croatian people in the Federation. And of course we don't bother you, it's ultimately part of the Washington Agreement, it's part of the relationship between the Croatian and Bosniak people, not to slow down your right, but it must not be something to be blackmailed by which the issue will not be solved, first of all, concerning the discrimination of others, and it is simple... That's what solves that question. And of course that's why it's called and, no more threats than blackmail. If you don't solve this issue, there won't be a solution, will there? So that's the essence of the whole question. Therefore, I think that there is a clear position here that you represent and certainly that without your decision, so there is this combination of Dodik-Čović, that without your decision, the practical choice in BiH will not be 16 unless this issue is resolved in the way that you, or, above all, Mr Čović, have decided.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17731	Replica, Drago Kalabić. I'm reminding you of an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17732	It's probably an urgent thing to say, and we're all trying to say urgently what we think when it comes to this emergency procedure, it's a little bit of a connection to this subject itself. My replica to Mr. Bojić – who started it first. So today I was expecting the debate and attitudes of the SDS on my proposal for essence. They didn't talk about it. How he'll talk when he gets here like that, I'll be correct, so I won't give any epithet to a proposal that went into the procedure with one member and everything that followed him this morning, but that's what he is. Instead of talking about the essence, you've been dealing with the charges, what you're solving, and you've made it hard for us all. And then you react when we defend ourselves against those accusations and when we say it's not true. Well, you don't think we're gonna defend ourselves and say that, that if you and I don't agree there won't be a choice. Well, the two of us took part ten times in every election and no questions asked, and we didn't decide on it, and it hurt with ours and without our choice, as it will now be. I can't imagine a situation where there won't be a choice, but anyone can also make a personal decision not to take part in it. If you can't decide about others, you can make a decision about yourself. But the bottom line of this whole story is that you are here today a spokesman for the international community and that you have made one proposal that the international community has been noseing to this Parliament for 20 days and that no one else has wanted it and you have accepted it. Here's the real truth for you in this whole story. Another political party refused that and asked correctly that, they were too often speakers of the international community and that would be transparent, you accepted today because this is what they see as a solution to this whole situation. And I let them have the right to it, it's their sighting, but it's not ours. You have accepted to bring it here today to Parliament thinking that it will bring good to you and with these arguments that do not drink water. Maybe some of it would have been if you hadn't made those accusations that someone wanted a blockade and that's someone who voted as long as he did yesterday for that proposal when it comes to the election. As we think about all the other issues in the Electoral Law on this matter, but in terms of the issues of the elections themselves, it is settled for us. And when we respond to such accusations, and you actually wanted to replace those centres of power that have their intentions here in this whole story. Of course they have to find the players through which these intentions, as you just said, there are blackmails, threats, lobbies, they all do, and among other things, foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17733	Ambassador Niko Lozančić, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17734	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, even though I was thinking... so I was... rephrase, uh, but I don't know, dear colleague Bojić, where did you even get the idea that someone here was being blackmailed? I don't really know where you got that idea. If it's an advocate of principle, consistency, consistency, and what else do you want, 17 blackmails, then you and I are under the notion of blackmail completely different... You are and all of us here less than a month ago had in the procedure a proposal to amend and supplement the Election Law, which was delivered to us by the Council of Ministers in which you then partied as a full-time party and which ensured the implementation of all judgments of the Constitutional Court. I don't know, I haven't heard such words to those who didn't want to support it, I haven't heard that they're blocking the election process, that they're blackmailing someone, that they're looking for impossible things, etc., etc. Unlike your offer, this offer was in regular procedure, in regular procedure. It could therefore have been discussed. It's not right, I think. So this one, I must say, dear Mr. Bosić, that in the last year, you've probably made more arrangements with the six-man leaders than I have, and I don't know how you've gotten so strong with some of them, I don't know where they come from at night. I have the same relationship now and before to all of them, that is, towards all of you and while you were at it, I respect each and every single person as individuals who have sought ways to come up with some sort of solution. Advocating certain solutions... considering how he thinks he's the most optimal, that's legitimate, that unfortunately we don't have progress that's another question. But you're responsible for that, too, I mean, no matter what the switch you're not part of, right, that doesn't mean you've been amnested. So it's not good, so it's not good to apply the standards of one in the morning, the other in the afternoon, it's not good for anybody, so I'm saying this to all of us, so it's not good that we don't like to see qualifications as blackmail or I don't know anything else. Because Mr. Franjičević, since he doesn't have another replica, which is why I picked up the most, didn't say one word – if he doesn't have a choice like this, I didn't hear it. You may have experienced it from Croatian to Serbian, but I understand what he's saying and really the man hasn't spoken, for the sake of truth I think you should say, so neither did he. And to advocate, that we will advocate, that in this entire country all its citizens and all its peoples are equal regardless of what entity they live in... we will and don't blame us.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17735	I thank Mr. Lozančić. An MP named Darko Babalj has signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17736	So this relationship between Serbian and Croatian we understand, we don't understand, and I sometimes don't understand what you're saying, but I understand that, as far as I know, the blackmail if there's no solution to the HDZ issue there's no solution, or HDZ, but this, we can also say HDZ, we can also say HDZ, there's no solution to Sejdić-Finci. I think it's blackmail. However, what counterpart Belkić just said to stick to the agenda, we went a little far. And here, there are no counterparts, Kalabić, so I'm going to be quite correct, so what's the point is that we all agree, the vote will show whether we all agree to show hypocrisy or not. I have not heard from anyone here that this is not a good solution for anyone in BiH. Everyone said it was good, and now it doesn't matter anymore, did the international one say, did he say that, let us together,... by our vote, which will be unanimously likely in this Parliament, we will show that we are serious about the problem in BiH. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17737	For discussion of an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 127. The Rules of Procedure also signed up for MP Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17738	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just like you said, I'll talk about the procedure and I'll start with what my colleague Babalj said we all agree this is the way this is supposed to be. I'm saying that I disagree, that I don't support this procedure, the emergency procedure, as the SNSD club disagrees for two reasons. The first reason is that this Proposal for an Amending Election Law is only a part of all the changes that the Election Law still needs to endure and pass, and then, of course, it introduces one situation that the Election Law, some say, has so far had 18 changes, perhaps more or less, and that already time, means that we need to talk about a completely new form of the Election Law, which is a very serious issue, especially in a situation where we've only been divided a year since the election. That's the first reason. The second reason is because of the unprincipledness of the promoter, and here are the colleagues who spoke before me already presented a lot of the argument in which the non-discipline of the promoter is seen. I must say that I understand the full position of the SDS that on Thursday when they were sent to the opposition they were as greedy as they were, in positions, in positions, in jobs in BiH institutions, which they were doing, please I listened to you while you were talking, so what they were doing all this time while they were in power with us these two years, I understand that they wanted that if possible immediately on Friday they were elections. But it is not possible, Mr. Bosić, because there are more reasons for this, but the most important reason why you are from the SDS is that you are only four MPs of 14 from the RS and four MPs from 42 in this House. So you have to realize that you're quite a minority here and you have to accept what most people think. Of course, the reasons why we won't today, we might have discussed emergency procedures, but I think the emergency procedure is completely inexcusable and inexcusable in the situation where we have many more open large issues that are related to the election process. You now say those who do not support this procedure, the amendments to this Electoral Law are against holding until next year's election. And I am asking you now – and is it you who are holding elections next year without the implementation of Sejdić and Finc's verdict so that we come into a situation that the EU, as they have already warned us, and says – you held these elections, we do not recognise these elections, so see what you will now, we warned you two years before these elections. What do you think of the situation? You're accusing us of wanting to extend the election, supposedly we're afraid of choices and that. Well, I'm telling you now that we sent you to the opposition by 2014 on Thursday, but the 2014 SNSD is in line with the 2014 elections to seal that opposition for you by 2018, so that you know where you belong and how you will behave.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17739	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17740	What time, so I have a discussion not a replica. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17741	And the discussion is, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17742	So, for your information, let me tell you that by the end of December 31st, the SNSD will be appointed to the party's authorities, the election headquarters that will begin to prepare the SNSD campaign. We are absolutely not afraid of choice and we believe that elections should be held in 2014, but they should stick to the legal frameworks and meet all the assumptions that are important for these elections. We believe that this part that you have proposed is only one segment in a set of issues that must be resolved before the election is called and, of course, before the elections are held. What you're proposing, and by emergency procedure, is simply giving the Electoral Commission an administrative and technical opportunity to call out the inventions. And those questions that are open and that may be even more open after the election and the election is called, you absolutely don't care, you need to stick to the election that we eventually own there in 2014 in those places where we haven't yet, but we guarantee you from the SNSD that it won't happen. Because that is not the case, Mr. Bosić, last year when local elections were called, when some mentioned that, that it should also hold extraordinary general elections, to join with local elections for saving, with local elections to save on funds, you were the loudest when you went out and said – there is no need to hold extraordinary general elections, let only be held local. Because that's when it was right for you not to hold on. And Mr. Dodik, who you're accusing right now that he's the main blocker like you said, that this isn't done, that nothing is done on this, is also out and said – SNSD doesn't mind, if someone thinks it's reanimal to save funds and to merge and, these two levels of choice, let's do it, we don't mind, we'll be ready for those elections. That's what Mr. Dodik said, and you were the loudest to put it out right away and say there's no need for that kind of thing. And now, of course, what you're doing today and you're proposing this procedure is saying enough about SDS, that you really don't have the political capacity to deal with large political issues and issues and problems that require a lot of energy and a lot of effort to make real and quality solutions happen. I can't believe you're now talking as SDS in your discussion that, let us do this, let the elections go, that the SDS can take what it can take next year in the general elections. And what is the position, here is the particular Croatian people, is whether they will be satisfied that this is how elections take place and do you really think that only one side, and you are not, after all, you are not, not the SDS is just the only representative of the Serbian people in this Parliament, do you think that only if you are satisfied with the SDS, and if you think that everything is more and more so, you don't care about the others as it is and so be it in the direction that you want it to go. Of course, you can do whatever you want, but that's probably not gonna work. And of course all the accusations that you're making and that you're imputing to others here is more about you and, of course, it goes in favor of the fact that and some of the things that need to be done, you'll probably be excluded from these processes because obviously you don't have the strength and the capacity to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17743	Thank you. Ambassador Beriz Belkić has a replica. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17744	The replica is an argument made against an emergency procedure. So, I'm going to mention one more argument that shouldn't be ignored, when we decide whether we're going to, whether we're going to emergency procedures or not. So non-implementation is a crime and it could be estimated that there is a basis, a basis for doubt that we are committing a crime. It is true that we still have several unimplemented verdicts, but the Constitutional Court's rulings are autonomous, each for ourselves and absolutely at this point we are talking about reducing this burden that we have in terms of committing a crime. Why don't we lower that burden today and send a message to the D.A. who was sending some memos here, etc., which are very frustrating, why don't we just send some messages that we're doing... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Is it from Croatia in Bosniak or is it a problem with the Bosniak people. The Bosniak people no one mentions they seem superior in this country, the best living, everyone else is suffering. Okay, well, so I made another argument that we should do this by emergency procedure today.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17746	Article 127. The Rules of Procedure also wish to speak to the MP Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17747	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. My colleagues from the SNSD have already said about the procedure of our position and what our position is. If we were to accept this emergency procedure and if amendments to the Electoral Law were to be made – is the election law complete, are all criteria met to hold next year's elections? It's not. So, in citing this SDS proposal, they are about to specify Article 2 or 3, it doesn't matter, we ask that it be, as they already said last session, 11 MPs from the SDS, which is simply impossible. But good. I don't watch the morning program on TV, but one of their TVs announced this morning that this would be the main problem, so here's the emergency procedure, and the conflict, the continuation of the conflict between SNSD and SDS. It's not a sequel. After all, this is their right to propose amendments and amendments to the law and have always called for the opinion of the Council of Ministers. Where is the Council of Ministers' opinion on this procedure here? Now they don't need it, they just need a complication. And not to be complicated, I have warned them many times, asked them not to mention Dodik, or Čović, because they are not members of either Parliament here, and it is good that they agree. If it were up to them and their agreement was implemented, there would be no such problem, as their agreement is not directed against any nation, it is not aimed against BiH. But it bothers them that their interests would be injured in BiH is another matter. So it's quite clear that the SDS will continue this policy, and let's continue to have nothing against, we're ready, but no one in their mind, any emergency or emergency procedure like this, should not be that we're against choices, which they insist on as they're going to sweep. Whenever you open some of their television and media, and thank Bog they're there now, and then you can see what their policy is, everything in Sarajevo SNSD has been betrayed, everything in Sarajevo has been sold by SNSD, everything in Sarajevo has been signed by Dodik and Lagumdzija, and everything will be against the Serbian 21 people. Drina will no longer run where it flows, but will flow through Sarajevo, so that she, my Miljacka, who springs from the palaces, flows through Sarajevo, will spring somewhere in Tesla, and will go towards Banja Luka. And Drina, these really energy potentials where everyone is responding and where the president is, I will now mention it even though I rarely use it, Dodik said – that this is a historic opportunity for BiH, especially RS, energy, water, agriculture, three main resources for the next 15 years in the world. But here, the SDS will say tonight – Dodik has agreed with Lagumdzija that Drina builds these hydroenergy potentials, starts with the Bosna Vrela and will build a hydrothermic around Osijek where water barely flows and cannot even be seen with the eye, and will not be on Drina where the capacities are. So a lot of people more of this demagogy, everybody's got me over my head and let's say once what's of interest here. The interest is that the SDS proposal of this article will not solve the issue of the Electoral Law, nor will elections be made if we adopt this, and we will not, but you have heard our colleagues and distinguished colleagues Marković and Kalabić and all those who have responded will not change anything. Let's make a deal. But no, it's very important to self-initiatively push into the procedure some bill, not consult anyone, and then accuse anyone but the SNSD. Well, that's the easiest thing to do and I'm against a good team that beats the Red Star, but I'd love for the zvijezda to win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17748	A series of MPs asked me why I'm strictly sticking to the Rules of Procedure at that first session on Thursday. Here's this item on the agenda when we're more flexible shows you why we have to strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure. He has a word, i.e. the discussion Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17749	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. So does this law address the issue of administrative and technical obstacles? Yes, you yourself, colleagues Marković, have found, that this issue is resolved, and that is one step towards resolving the overall issue of original regulations that need to regulate this area. And if this is a question of which there is no dispute, no dispute from any political party, and if this is the content with which no one opposes the content, then why don't you make a statement about the law in question and say, yes, this SDS proposal is correct, there is nothing in its content that is harmful to RS or anyone in BiH. So that's the kind of commitment I expected from you. I have to tell you when you talk about the greed of the SDS, this is about the chair, right, but in which the SNSD will sit, not the SDS, you're in greed and you run into the chairs. You couldn't bear that Minister Šarović showed that only one of the most important functions of the SDS has shown that he is better than your ten. This was shown by Mr Šarović, he showed primarily by his work, correct and views that were at no time harmful to the RS or anyone in BiH, and were of interest to the RS. But you couldn't bear it that in the media, first of all talking about the successes of SDS officials, it bothered you, it bothered you that we had this chair. This isn't a chair fight, it's a chair and two replacement seats. And you have greed for the chairs, that's, your obsession with the chair, you couldn't stand to see Minister Šarović doing his job fantastically and because of such a relationship you approached, therefore, taking and taking a chair in which he was sitting a representative of the SDS. And you're telling us about greed. That kind of approach is pointless. 22 As for the political capacity of the SDS, you say, ‘You are not afraid for choices, etc.’ That you're not afraid for the election. I know you're not afraid. You're just scared. You're scared. So you're not afraid of choices, but you're very scared. After all, you follow well the reports of various agencies, cross-reference the data, but we won't even brag about it, there will be an opportunity to talk in the elections about the capacity of whether the SDS has the capacity or not. Make sure he does. And as for historical chances, so as far as SDS and SDS are concerned as projects offer to the RS, in the end, nothing will be harmful to BiH either, anything contained in the activities that the SDS, first of all by strengthening the party's water infrastructure, and is prepared for the next elections in which we will show you in what way we are strategically defined in relation to important issues related to RS, but I hope that, in addition to this debate here, there will be far more debate in the National Assembly of the RS. And don't underestimate only four of us, there's only so much we can take you like a tornado from a political scene in the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17750	Thank you. Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17751	It's hard for a man to say what he meant when he heard all this. But there's one thing we all have to take care of. The question of how we address one another is sometimes beyond the limits of taste and the limits of decency. There's a lot we can tell each other, the difference between us is who has the measure. What's going to happen, and building a career here on the question of what's going to be really untasty. There will be plenty of room to fight during the election campaign and all that's happening so far and all this time spent here don't take it as a sign of SNSD weakness. I can't deal with the kind of questions we're talking about, I'm ashamed, I'm ashamed that we came in a position to try to build another's career by spitting one. I'm ashamed to be here, and I'm ashamed to listen to all these talk people who were partners until yesterday. Please maintain some dignity and measures will benefit us both.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17752	Ambassador Lazar Prodanović's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17753	He's referring to Mr. Bojić's discussion. I can't understand why so much with great sadness and pain you accept some reality to be an opposition, what happened and at the same time to the public is constantly disinformation, so absolutely false facts. So, referring to that, you're saying that one man is better than ten, so the smartest man can't be better than ten averages below any level of education. And when you talk about Mr. Šarović, I will tell you one thing – both 2008 and 2009 and 2010 the external trade deficit in BiH was less than in 2011 and 2012 and 2013. So, what are you talking about? About the beauty of a minister. Is this story about the impact and significance of a minister seen in ordinary verbal expression and not solving essential problems for BiH. So it is probably understood that the ministry's power would be in the creation of an environment where BiH will have significantly higher exports or move closer in terms of exports of 23 to imports of goods and services. And whether it's better, it's possible it's better, but in other ways and other methods and different benefits. About that time it will show, about this story of the fight against protection as domestic lobby production and all, it is often clouded by some other interests, but there will be time to talk about it too. I will Vratić only to the Law, I apologize that it would not turn out... so it is the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court's decision. This, these amendments to the electoral legislation would be important for the Election Law in BiH, but I must tell you, gentlemen, it would be logical to consult the legislative and legal sector of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the way this law was proposed. And what happens if this isn't an emergency? It's a shortened procedure or a regular procedure? They won't do anything, and we don't need to say now that SDS is the savior by implementing this decision of 88 unimplemented decisions Constitutional Court now with this one decision in a way. And also when it comes to this, it would be important that this amendment to the electoral legislation included nine electoral units in the RS that are the people's decision of the RS, thus established by amending the electoral legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17754	Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17755	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the sake of truth, you just warned that we were talking about the procedures of the proposed law, and that's true, but it went with the discussion and you witnessed what was being discussed. Talk to Mr. Šarović doesn't have to be and get a follow-up. It's over in one way, and we'll see how it ends eventually. But for the sake of truth, I will ask the question – what is the best minister, Mr. Šarović, so far? Is it easier to export to farmers, and so is this law in question, which the whole dispute began to be alleged. Well, Mr. Bojić, the zakon was prepared by former SNSD Minister Mladen Zirojević, and he would then be adopted if there were support from the Federation of the Law. Mr. Šarović just pulled it out of the drawer and put it as the first priority law and you are proud as if something had done it Mirko Šarović. That's wrong first. Well, it hasn't started this House since your election and my reelection. We know what that was about. But not to pass on, I said and begged you, an atmosphere from the RS to the BiH Parliament, you intend to do more what Šarović did, what he did to Dodik-Čović-Covic. Well, of course, it is in our interest that the Croatian people, as the fewest, resolve their question. It is not a matter that we are the protectors and spokesmen of the representatives of the Croatian people. But happiness in BiH will no one have if anyone's interests are injured. And the rest, and the constituent peoples, and the entities, and the cantons, and I don't want to count any further. With your story like this, you're going to campaign too early and like you're going to do us like a tornado. Well, we've endured a tornado, I'm just afraid of tsunamis, but fortunately, you can't produce it, because you don't have such technical options, but we have a solution for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17756	We need to close the discussion, but there is another replica, MP Adnan Bašić. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17757	Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman, for taking the word out of my mouth. I've really been listening for over two hours now, that stream that was a little stream,...when sparks bursting between the two strongest political parties in this House, now you see, from the last events in the previous session, we've been overwhelmed by the flood and the bitter hatred of political, bickering and you see what a simple discussion has become about one procedure. Two hours, if we're going to hold each of our sessions with two points of the agenda, then both of us, please, honestly, man, do it someplace else. This has really crossed all the lines. I respect your political right to be reckoned in this way, but which is a lot, it's a lot. We have really much bigger problems. And apropo scares the bear with a solution, as our people would say, whether there will be a choice or not, there will be a choice. You all want elections, all of you, and you'll do anything to be, ordered from different initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17758	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, but my colleague Darko Babalj has applied. What, is it a replica or a discussion? Replication is whether or not
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17759	... It's not an accident, but since there's no... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17760	However, I am closing the debate on the fifth item of the agenda. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a law on liability for nuclear damage – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) Before I open the debate, I want to remind you now of the next one. First, from this point to the last point of today's session of the agenda, I limit the duration of the debate to five minutes, because I believe that my goal as well as you is to end this session today at some decent time interval. Secondly, from this 6th to the end today, which, whether or not, the 17th point of the agenda, anyone who gets away from the agenda point will be warned. And if the warning doesn't work, we'll also take away the words. I hope it doesn't come to that. I'm opening a debate on the sixth agenda. The word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17762	Well, here, I need to say a few words. Since this Law has been in the process for a very long time and has practically been delivered by the Council of Ministers in the procedure on 27.02, that the House of Representatives, or that the Joint Defence and Security Committee, has completed its work on 16.04, but that we have a case that the House of Peoples has only completed its work on 12.09.2013. I would remind you that the College of the House of the Peoples sent a letter to the Council of Ministers concerning this Law, in which the College of the Peoples decided to return the Law in question to the Proposer because of the non-compliance with the Bosnian and Croatian language norms. Now that's why the law's been in the process for so long. And it is really inadmissible that the laws that have not passed the rectorial procedure end up in the Parliamentary Assembly and that there are situations like this that we are practically six months waiting for someone from the Council of Ministers to verify that the version of the Serbian version is equal in interpreting the version in Bosnian and Croatian. Here, I would like to say in the end that it is finally after the decision of the House of Peoples to adopt this Law, that the debate on the second commission phase has passed so that one of the amendments of MP Denis Berović was adopted and that the law was unanimously adopted in the second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17763	I would like to thank MEP Majkić, who spoke exclusively about the topic on the agenda, that is, within this point. I believe that practice will continue with MP Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17764	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members, I welcome you all, as well as guests. When it comes to this proposal for a law on liability for nuclear damage, I would like to ask some questions, and above all to the Proposer or Council of Ministers, because I find it interesting to know – Has the Council of Ministers received an opinion or comment by now, as the Proposer of this Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17765	Comrade Jagodić, the second reading is a second reading, an amendment phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17766	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17767	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a discussion? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate on the sixth item of the agenda. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, 26 Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on indirect taxation - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) The bill was adopted at the 54th session, held on 07.10.2013 in the first reading. The financial and budgetary committee responsible submitted the report on 23.10.2013. No amendments were proposed. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the eighth item of the agenda, Ad. 8. Commission report from the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Witness Protection Programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (Law in Second Reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17772	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. I would like to stress that I am pleased that the Council of Ministers has finally begun to interfere in its work. So, one of the main things, in my opinion, that the Council of Ministers should be doing, is exactly keeping economic policies for this country, because in the current situation in which BiH is located, we all know today, we have news that the IMF is deciding on 48m euros that BiH should be in charge of, of a total of 395m euros. So instead of the Council of Ministers working on this very economic measure and working on, or encouraging domestic production, we hire people, to fix the external trade balance, and to fill the budget in this way, precisely with economic measures, so we're in charge of the IMF, and these are all the measures we have available, unfortunately, here for the first time in two years, we have one small segment today. We know that private sector employment is falling and public sector employment is growing slightly, and therefore we do not have a drastic downturn. So it all leads in the wrong direction. And this is a small repair saying at the end of the argument that this will fix about 15 million KM budget. So, when it comes to what to choose, whether to be in charge of the IMF or still increase this 10 times here, so 150 million gains in the budget, I'm, as far as I'm concerned, so I'd always be in charge of this measure, and not in charge, because I think that's the only way we can increase employment, hire our people, encourage domestic production, fix our external trade balance, and that's how we fill the budget. And so, I would once again welcome this approach, by asking the promoter to place 0.55 instead. So in this way, I think that if I didn't put the amendment on another reading, that's my suggestion and I support this in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17773	Before Parliament member Mato Franjičević was given the word just to remind me, part of the MPs and part of the members of the College did not know that this extension would take place on Monday, so we took part in an important commitment, so here you can also concentrate from 13:00 to 13:45 there will be a break, regardless of which part of the agenda we are at then. The word is from Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17774	In general, I have no objection to the direction that has taken place when it comes to these amendments to this legislation and of course I don't mind when it comes to the reasons behind these, or the intentions and reasons behind these and these solutions. However, in addition to protecting or stimulating domestic beer production, domestic brewers, it would be good, and putting them in a more competitive position than those on the outside, it would be good to extend it in this way only to create more categories of these domestic or general beer producers, so that when they are already mentioned, and here they mention examples and practices from the EU, from such brewery 28 countries such as the Czech Republic and Germany, that these examples have been used, already exposed hot water, and that more of these categories have been made to further stimulate genuine small or smaller beer producers. This is how we stayed in positions, what this proposal for amending the Taxation Act offers, that it will have a more favourable position, it seems to me that 20 fening per litre is a excise duty for beer, from those producers who produce up to 400 thousand hectolitres a year, these are large quantities when it comes to our beer industry, and all those who produce more than that, are implicated, of course, that these are these foreign brewers, they will pay 5 fening more excise duties. My suggestion is to stay, of course we're not going to some shithole right now, but to stay within the limits of what's real and possible. That for those producers that produce more than 400 thousand hectolitres of excise duties is increased to 30 fening per litre. And then it's going to be a real real stimulant for domestic beer producers, and all those who produce below 400 thousand hectolitres to build them, to make more categories by example, I said already, Germany, more often, Belgium, which is mentioned here, so that the biggest stimulation and the lowest cost are given to producers of, say, as 12.5 thousand hectolitres per year are listed here, that the next category be producers of up to 25 thousand hectolitres per year, etc., etc. Of course, I will also prepare the amendments in that sense, and when there is a second reading, we can discuss that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17775	Thank you. The following discussion was signed up by Ambassador Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17776	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, present. We have before us one text of the Law which represents one concrete measure to protect domestic production, and we need to be quite clear that in measures to protect domestic production we have different arsenal measures, starting with active policy measures that promote development and to measures passive policy that prevent competition from abroad. I would say that this is a combined protection policy measure and a welcome conservation measure, i.e. to establish fair competition for domestic beer producers with global and regional producers performing on the Bosnian Herzegovina market. What is very important is to point out that this is in line with EU practice and thus with the practice of the World Trade Organisation and that these are actually our limits in the arsenal of measures that we can take in relation to the protection of domestic production. I would also like to point out that we have not put these into a particularly privileged position of domestic producers, which are, of course, all units within these limits of 400 thousand hectolitres of annual production. On the contrary, we put them in perhaps a more fair position than the competition, but the success of this measure will depend crucially on the competitiveness of domestic companies. Therefore, it should not be possible for our companies to overcome the feeling that this measure has solved the problems of their competitiveness and their position on the market and that after this measure 29 we can expect one prosperity, growth in production, employment, investment on our own. You need to understand the competition on this market, and it's next. No, this market is not dominated by price competition, it's competition with brands. This is an industry that isn't run by costs, it's an industry run by marketing. Therefore, our companies have to invest much more in marketing, much more to strengthen their ability to operate in the marketing area, and with this measure, we can expect this to be reflected in a more favourable situation, strengthening their competitiveness on the market. And finally, I would like to respond in terms of some controversy, with my colleague Mladen Ivankovićem-Lanovijan-Lijanovic, in the sense that we do not have an alternative in our domestic production protection policy or to protect domestic production or to be in debt. It's too simplified to look at the economy. Therefore, domestic production should be promoted, especially by active measures, so development, development, development. And as for borrowing, in terms of borrowing, we need to secure resources for development. And here's the thing, in the extracurricular situations, it's happened that borrowing needs to be done and because of the need to overcome the current problems in public spending, expecting development to create sufficient conditions for us to properly pay off the loans that serve to overcome these current difficulties. In the end, I would like to say, in addition to the largely negative public opinion has been created in BiH in terms of borrowing, to address the current deficits in public spending, we have had an alternative to raise taxes, such as many countries that have taken place in similar situations. And we had an alternative to selling the capital of the state, and even into invaluableness, as many countries have also worked. We have committed ourselves to a variant that simply represents an expression of the possibility of need in BiH and, of course, it can be the subject of both dispute and confirmation, but we must understand that it is not a negative, or bad move in BiH's macroeconomic governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17777	Thank you. Next up for the discussion, honourable MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17778	Here, I'll do it for you. So, I will absolutely follow the unique position of our Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, which supported this Law in the first reading, but I will not miss the opportunity to express my regret and I think it is a shame that we did not organise a debate on the economic and social situation in the country, which we initiated in 2011, here she was supported, waiting for the Council of Ministers to do something, to coordinate. And the chairman of the Council of Ministers told us at the last session that he had sent letters, that there was no answer, so that story was not realized, and I sincerely hope that it will be in due course. The argument for such a need was given to us by MP Domazet, who, through his discussion, pointed out that BiH still has some instruments, therefore mechanisms that can affect certain things, and we are the ones who do it. So, as said in the discussion, this is one of the measures that are known and implemented, but this measure is therefore dependent on this Parliament. And that's an argument more that we 30 have reason to have a debate here on the economic and social situation, that a number of people sit here, of course I don't involve myself, who know the situation in practice and theoretical knowledge, etc., so I think we should discuss this Parliament on the economic and social situation and hear a series of very good thoughts and recommendations. I'm a little confused, I have no reason not to believe Mr. Domazet's discussion which clearly said that we shouldn't be fooled, that this isn't bringing these producers from the beer industry into a more favourable position, but this is just a fair approach, or evening them, which means that they were practically in a kind of sub-due position, which made their business more difficult. I was just about to say, one of the reasons I'm going to support this law is that attention and that relationship, the incentive of our production, not budgeting. So if we're only bringing this up because of that 15 million or some estimate of how much this could increase the budget, I think that's wrong. I am now sincerely hoping that at least we can achieve what MP Domazet was talking about, that we are bringing these producers in an equal position, that we have some fair approach to them. Here, therefore, I will absolutely support this Law in the first reading and once again appeal to the College to insist that the Council of Ministers implements our conclusion that we have all brought here and provide the materials and that we organise a debate on the economic and social situation in the country, because we have what we have to say and Bog we can do something and that is visible from, here is the adoption of a possible amendment and addition of this present law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17779	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17780	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome the presidency, my colleagues and my colleagues and everyone present in the O.R. As a matter of fact, I agree with a lot of things already said here, but here's the last one discussed by Mr. Belkić, I don't see why we can't and why we shouldn't ultimately favour our production, our domestic production. I think that's absolutely what we should be trying to do. We're kind of stepping up in front of the EU. There are clearly facts that say that many EU countries have protected many branches of their industries, have protected many of them by their laws, so that I absolutely don't see any interference as to why it shouldn't be here either. If you remember when we talked about agriculture and when we talked about those dry years, one of my ideas was that we, because these mechanisms are in our hands, to free the taxes completely from importing and making them here at home, means the market for the irrigation system and everything else that follows, because we definitely recognized it as a problem. So, we haven't come to that yet, I sincerely hope we will, but here we are getting a beer. This didn't occur to any of us here, it just occurred to people that they were suffocating and threatening them, they got together and they were walking towards us, they were heading towards Parliament, and here today, thank Bog we recognize their efforts to survive, and so it should be. And here, I sincerely hope these days we'll meet them, so we'll proceed to parliamentary procedure until the end. 31 I must also tell you that we will not help much with this proposed measure of our brewery industry, because when you take the same level, you will remain 20 fencing loads per litre for our brewers, and it will increase by 25 means per liter, and when you take that most sold beer, here I will freely say, so Bavari, it is packed into bottles of 0.25 and when you take it to be loaded with 5 fening more, you will get that 1.25 fening per bottle. It's absolutely them in that system of rebates, and I don't know what they're going to do, and we're definitely not going to hurt them much, so let's just say, or we won't put a lot of pressure on them selling them here in BiH. When you take a bottle of 0.33, - 1.7 fening, it means at an existing price, if it's in any price change at all, I literally want to give you a statement, so we definitely didn't do anything. The highest load for beer that is served in the bars is 0.50 and would be charged with an additional 2.5 fening. So there's nothing wrong with it, and we're not gonna do anything big about it to those foreign brewers' companies. I think I'm very close to the proposals of the colleagues who proposed it means that this burden is more. If we're already doing something, let's put that on weight, so that means in that direction, with all that Mr., dear colleague Domazet has said, they're definitely doing it marketingly, so foreign companies are doing it far better than our companies do. So, it wouldn't be bad to think about it if it were to be even more burdened, if it were to be very influential, it would be our intention to influence the price of the product, or to affect the price of a liter of beer in BiH, yes, here I am going to be free to say, so they just have to jump out a little bit with a price higher than our producers, so our beer gets in that part too. It is that it is not a popular measure because it would be easier and easier, perhaps not simpler, but more cultural in any case would be the way Professor Domazet said, but my Bog. So I absolutely support this idea and support it and make it more. I hope that we will all act in this direction and, of course, find a measure, that we will not go too far.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17781	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17782	Here's another sentence. As far as beer is concerned, not only should beer be burdened with extra excise duty, you should see all this high-access goods and everything that is definitely not some life intention, drugs or something you can't do without. So we definitely need to look for ourselves in that, and we need to increase those excise duties. Thank you. I have something else to say. I'm sorry we cut short.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17783	Thank you. I hope you don't mind. I may be strict, but I'm just. Dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17784	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. 32 Here, when it comes to this amendment and the addition of the BiH Taxation Act, meaning those who are here before us, I must say that I am a little surprised that this did not come a little earlier in the parliamentary procedure, at least a year earlier. Here, today we are from colleagues who have discussed this topic, in any case one positive discussion and all agree that it should be protected, meaning domestic production, even in this way, by increasing these excise duties on production, or imports of these, when it comes to non-alcoholic beverages, beer and wine. Here domestic production, so this way we're going to put about one even competition with large systems coming from the EU and from the region, and we're going to improve their way of doing business on the domestic market, but I think it's very important here, not just to charge, but... a budget where we're going to increase... these excise duties, this to 0.00, 0.25 and 25, that the budget increase is going to be about 15 million marks. This will certainly ensure stability, at least this number of employees employed in these industries, especially the largest number of workers in the brewery, but also workers involved in the production and sale of wine in BiH. In any case, we as an institution, as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, should also work on the awareness of BiH citizens, that BiH citizens take domestic products, means domestic products that are of their own quality, we could be sure of that, very similar or equally quality, if not more quality than many products for which we pay not a very small price, and they are not very well checked, nor good quality, as it says there. Of course, in this case the most profitable are those import lobbys that apparently have and cover in certain political elites. We who receive wages, which means that we work in institutions, not only BiH but in all public institutions, should use these domestic products, thus showing that we believe in domestic production, not only to declare domestic production, but to try to use or consume these import products at any time. Since I have already seen from the discussion that there will be amendments to this Act, meaning these amendments and additions to the Law, to increase these excise duties, especially I see here for beer, I have heard two suggestions from my colleague Franjičević to 0.30 or Ivanković's colleagues to 0.50 is, I will suggest, either together with them or myself, that we do the same for non-alcoholic drinks and wine to increase these excise duties from 0.00 to 0.20 or wine from 0.25 to 0.30. Because that's the kind of information that I might have caught somewhere, that BiH imports non-alcoholic drinks and beer 150 million KM, that's one scary piece of information, if we know that we are, by the quality and quantity of drinking water in Europe somewhere 5th or 6th place, I think we share it with Croatia, then there's absolutely no reason to drink instead of home water to drink us. I mean water can be imported, it's the Law of Trade very clear but we need to consume these domestic products. And that's how we're going to make it possible for all of this, and for additional income and employment, which is what we need, or for all of us, and for all of us, and for all of the work and intensity and for the tasks that we've been paid for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17785	I thank Ambassador Jurišić, who fits in at the scheduled time. The word is from MP Salko Sokolović. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17786	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. Here, we at the SDA support this legal solution proposed by the Council of Ministers. Perhaps at this point, as one good idea, we are not satisfied with all that is written in the law and suggested. They're repeating themselves, but here's what I want to say, specifically, is our attitude. I think these amounts or we think these excise amounts should have been, the amount of this excise duty should have been higher. Here, we're talking about these numbers, 0.30, 0.35, someone mentioned 0.50, and we're going to act in this direction in the amendment phase for the simple reason that it's already visible, through the arguments set out in this Law, that there's going to be an increase in production in the domestic brewery industry, because the installed capacities at this point are somewhere around 30% in the drive. So there is one very significant amount of empty space, and I think that by measures like this, or by this measure, we can also significantly improve profits for the BiH state, but what's most important at this point, what's missing from BiH -- increase the number of jobs. And I'm talking about this fact that at this point BiH is importing 150 million beers in BiH, and here someone threw it there on paper and said it was over a thousand jobs. To eliminate at least one third of those imports, target domestic production, with all the elements that were previously mentioned, a certain effect has been made. And what is very important to mention here, which is related to relations with both the EU and CEFTA, and this is stated in the explanation that this is not a discriminatory law against them, means that all small brewing industries, no matter where they are, can have or can benefit from these benefits. And here, is it now or through some later parliamentary question, and perhaps since there is a representative of the ministry here, I am interested in whether certain analyses have been made and when it comes to non-alcoholic drinks and wine, are there in this field, we can say there is some quota that will also protect the non-alcoholic and wine industry in BiH? Here, are we able to solve it through this legal solution, or perhaps through amendments to try to suggest certain solutions, so here you from the ministry give us the answer to that question. But I think that, now or in some future phase, you should certainly give us some indicators, because you in the ministry can certainly do it a lot easier to gather information and ultimately suggest a solution like this, here's what you're proposing right now. Here, it's mostly a discussion on the subject. Whether this level of excise duty is enough or not, no one is slowing down the idea, and we from the SDA Club are here at the end, giving some support to the ministry to continue to deal with this problem in the future, to provide us with such quality solutions that will ultimately result in a stronger economy of BiH and an increased number of employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17787	Thank you. Business intervention has MP Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17788	Mr. Chairman, given that there is no respected and commendable minister in this important law, we see that the SNSD Club is smelling quorum, neither are those who praised it, I think it's time to provide it. The SNSD will always be for twice as many SDS MPs as there are. We're looking for a break from the club 15 minutes to half an hour... 34
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17789	Wait a second, so one second. I must, of course, approve SNSD's request for a break. But we're going to put these 15 together another 45 and we're going to keep going. It's 12:45, 1:45, use it instead of that break from 2:00 to 3:00. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work on the 55th session of the House of Representatives. He applied for the debate, MP Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17791	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17792	I'll ask the others to take their seats in the O.R., the back row too.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17793	When we talk about the proposal, I have to say that, as usual, a lot of our world understands everything or beer, and there are very few people who can recognize that you give it without a beer label and recognize what quality it is. And I was a witness when a man cools a couple of kinds of beers in a big pot, and now he asks what beer you want, and he takes those labels, and you say it nice, and inside it is mixed with everything and everything. What I'm saying is that the beer we drink outside and the beer that we drink here, I don't mean to speak on purpose, has nothing to do with each other. It is a completely different quality, it is a beer that comes, the first quality goes to EU countries that are something stronger, etc., the second quality in others, and only for us is it left with a slightly weaker quality. I didn't mention, besides before the war, you remember well, you who worked in certain systems, that the first production went for the military, the second for export, the third for the domestic market, and the fourth for some spare parts, etc. Therefore, it must be kept in mind that most of these countries, or those producers under that mark, do not give the same quality as they do in their countries. In the world somewhere, domestic beer is drank between 70% and 90%, developed Western European countries use between 70% and 90%. I asked here, somewhere earlier I heard it was about 40% in BiH. Now, that's devastating, but I can't fight the little ones easily against these big ones. But I think what we're trying to help today, maybe it's not good enough, maybe we should go with some more significant increase, so we can just train them so they can invest as much as possible in their marketing and their sales. With this... what are the effects? I think we should think about increasing these excise duties to these larger producers, and the effects are that in a certain way we reduce and repair the external trade balance, the second, to increase the number of employees in their companies, and thus improve, create conditions to improve the quality of domestic beer producers. Maybe we're still not working enough to promote exactly that to use domestically, it's the best and the best and I have to say that wherever I go, I'm always looking for beer that's from BiH, because I know that people are fighting, I know that the quality difference is very small, or even has an advantage over these others. 35 Here. in this regard, we will also support the proposal that, if there is to be a greater increase to protect domestic producers. And not only in the manufacture of beer, we should think about the production of wine, juice and other crops that we can produce, because we can no longer produce planes or trucks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17794	Thank you. Ambassador Emir Kabil has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17795	Dear President, dear colleagues. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act in BiH, the SBB will certainly support this initiative, that is, this law. But besides, I want to say a few things. We thought, and we also said on the Commission clearly and decadently, where we were all unique, that it is necessary to improve and set better conditions for the brewery industry, that these measures that we have brought are more symbolic characters and in no case make effective measures to protect the beer industry. At this point, we have four breweries in BiH, one of which is before the shutdown (I think in Herzegovina, so to speak) and which will lose some 40, 50 people. To talk about quality and propaganda, or marketing, that we and our industry are launching this cycle of marketing development is, in my opinion, ridiculous. We can only talk about quality, because BiH currently has the highest quality water of all the countries producing beer. Organically every water we have is so-called. soft water with extraordinary calcium and magnesium concentrations and which is most ideal for the production of beer itself. Because they say the main composition for every beer is quality, it's water. So the Tuzlane brewery, I repeat, and the Banja Luka, and the biacca, have extremely high-quality water like this, I mean somewhere in Gruda's. The problem, of course, is the second composition of honey and what's already going on in the beer. So we have to go to that water quality is top-of-the-line. The analysis of Tuzlane water from Stupar has shown that organoleptic quality is better than..., be careful better than... Of course, no one knows that because the concentration of all minerals is ideal. That's why you might not be able to agree with the esteemed Professor Domazet who said we had to work on marketing. We can't work on marketing. Heineken Corporation, one of the most powerful global players in the world, has given Heineken Corporations in three or four years only for the European League of Champions close to a billion euros. What can we offer to people who identify themselves with a game, with players and with a green can? Nothing. We can only offer quality and try to promote homework through quality. Expecting our brewery industry to endanger the brewery industry of the West is ridiculous. There's absolutely no way, it's an impossible mission. We have to go, that's my opinion and the opinion of us at the club, to increase these excise duties, to improve this ratio of excise duty that was 60:40, now already in 2011 65:35, which clearly says that the brewery industry will be destroyed. If that, along with other products like water, such as juices and all those products that can use excise duty, if nothing else, gets close to these global players, we'll make 36 of us a major shift, so I'd say we'll probably initiate that even the rate of excise duty, through the amendment form, is something bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17796	Thank you. The Republic has an MP, Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17797	Thank you. Here, just for a little while. And I've been partly supportive...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17798	Who's the replica, I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17799	Mr. Kabil, let me just say, so I also supported Professor Domazet's discussion and I still support it, it can be done a lot more in marketing, that's my opinion, because here on our premises "Jellen" has broken through extra good marketing, which doesn't seem to cost me anything too much. So they went over the electronic media and got through it that way. They weren't sponsors of some big sports clubs and competitions or anything like that. I mean, here on our Jelen market, it was just marketing through electronic media. I think that... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Men know why, that's, that's what they got through. But then, you definitely have to take care of everything, all these aspects should be taken into account, none of it should be ignored. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17801	Ambassador Nermin Purić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17802	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. Obviously, therefore, this is a subject that is very interesting, and it's a little relaxing. Maybe it's also a recipe for colleagues from SDS and SNSD to discuss these problems with beer in the future. This law is very important, not so much because of its content, but because of the principle that I hope it will establish. And that principle is not to protect domestic production because we can't do it anymore, but to make it easier for her. And this very law, or restriction, or 37 reduction of excise duty on brewers that produce less than 400,000 hectolitres, is in fact a relief of their position. I hope that the example of this Law, i.e. the example of these products, will be followed by some other products and other branches in BiH. What I might consider when it comes to fixing the quota, I agree with Mr Franjičević, who talked about the need to introduce different rates, so different production quotas, but also this period of 3 years, I don't know if he's good, whether there's room to take a bigger period, let's say five years, in order to look at a situation where maybe a bigger brewer, wanting to make a certain profit under this law, might divide his brewery into two smaller ones and achieve certain benefits, just as opportunities. Therefore, there is no need to talk here about the protection of domestic production by the team before it has obtained proof from the manufacturer whose average production, etc., has been obtained by the third Article 18, i.e. that these incentives are equally achieved by the importer on condition that it has proof that beer has been obtained from the producer whose average production is, etc. So, we're not protecting domestic production, we're just trying to make the situation easier for domestic producers, hoping it will have positive effects on all brewers, and especially on the brewery in Gruda which, it seems, is in the most difficult position and still employs a significant number of workers. To talk about the effects on the economy, the effects on the budget, etc., it is, in my opinion, a relative thing, when we talk about the incentives of this kind, because maybe we'll just release some of the resources from the environment, so they'll be able to have a more aggressive marketing campaign and we'll have a counter effect when it comes to the position of our domestic brewers. I will support this bill of course. In the amendment phase, if I do, I'll see what other colleagues initiate, if there's any need and interventions. And so it's important that we don't get carried away by talking about how we're going to protect our domestic brewers, so I repeat, we're just making things easier for them right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17803	Thank you. The word has an MP and chairman of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17804	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I'll brief a few notes. So, I agree with my colleague Purić that this period really needs to be five years, and I think it's something that we agreed on in the Commission, and it seems to me that no one here has objected to. Namely, I'd like a few sentences about the background. When it comes to the space of the former Yugoslavia, so earlier breweries were conceived in a way that they had produced somewhere between 300,000 and 600,000 hectares and as such were deployed regionally and had a real success in their business, and that is something that is not entirely controversial, and in the end that is how it works in the last 100 years, if we want to go from that fact why we are talking about 400,000 here today, and not about 200,000, as it is in the West. In fact, about 10 years before the end of the last century, somewhere in the '90s. years and so on, here they appeared in our space of these large multinational companies that practically and practically do not invest in these small breweries and 38 they mainly created these larger capacities, somewhere up to 3 million hectolitres, and in that case they were simply aggressive on this market. And I agree with those grades that were heard here in the sense that, when it comes to the purchase of raw materials and when it comes to marketing, these big companies are hugely advantageous from the companies that work here in our space. Well, that's also logical, since they have a higher capacity, their raw materials are cheaper, and therefore they can allocate more funds for marketing and are therefore significantly advantageous than our brewers So it's totally logical so that I wouldn't agree with those assessments that we've heard in the sense that something needs to be done on marketing. You know how some big names such as BIP, Sarajevo,Valjevo, Buzet, Drvar, Grude, Osijek, Split, Banja Luka, as they had serious financial problems as a result of such, many have remained practical or are prior to closure, for example. Grude. And I'll point out, since I have some information about brewers in the environment, for example. in Croatia Buzet completely reduced sales, Split was shut down in 2011, in Serbia Vrsac was shut down in 2011, in Nis in December 2012 and Grude was shut down in 2009. So if the approach we have today continues we'll have the situation that we have in the environment that we'll have a virtually covered market over 93% or more or over 90% of these big brewers that will practically come to our premises and we'll just offer them a warehouse. Niko of the big investors invest anything in these little brewery. With this legal solution, we will practically invite large investors to commit themselves, to practically buy breweries that are in these areas, after all this is an invitation for investors, not only to use BiH as a market but to have the opportunity for investors to take the breweries that are located in our premises from Grud, Bihaća, Sarajevo, Tuzla and Banja Luka. I disagree with the estimates that this is a protection of domestic production. This is not a measure to protect domestic production for the simple reason this has nothing to do with customs fees or trade. We by this legal regulation practically, this applies only to the excise rate paid on alcoholic beverages without any difference on country of origin, which means that all brewers are in exactly the same position in neighbouring countries. We do not put breweries in BiH in a more favourable position. Nothing, this law is fully applicable in both Croatia and Serbia. So that's something I want to point out to my colleagues who, among other things, told us to protect our domestic production. No, on the contrary, let's create conditions for small brewers in BiH and in the environment in countries, coming from Europe or CEFTA insignificantly, to have the same conditions for attraction. That's the essence of the approach that here in my mind would be something that's completely acceptable. The next thing I want to point out is that, among other things, this kind of regulation, when it comes to the position of brewers, I would practically say in the largest number of European countries such as, I tried to extract data from Germany, Britain, Austria, Portugal, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Finland, France, Greece and the Netherlands, there is a decision as if, therefore, the production of beer as it is, of national interest and to maintain so-called. regional breweries and all known types of beer they produce. Since these countries have approached the way they have handled the brewery, there is no reason not to do the same. That truth is one difference when it comes to the so-called. small, medium and large brewers, we are talking here about the position when it comes to this country of some medium size, but it is something that is completely acceptable for BiH because there are practically up to 400,000 hectolitres of beer here something that needs to be done in order for this production to survive here. 39 At the end of the day, I would agree with those who said that, and I will end it, that we should practically increase this excise duty that we have proposed, that is, by the proposer, and at the end of the day it would be in accord with the views that we have received from the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, from the Association of brewers, and it seems to me that this is nothing contrary to what other countries are doing in terms of putting the position of all those who produce these quantities of beer. Since my time is limited, this would practically end.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17805	Thank you. The word has been made by Vice-President Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17806	Thank you. Perhaps Mr. Purić was too happy for the simple reason why, and with us, it is the custom, you know, in the family we can argue among ourselves, but we do not allow others to touch any family member. So leave that part of the controversy that we have between us to discuss. And here I want to make a comparison between the Excise Act which is on the agenda and the Tariff Act that we previously adopted. The very fact that we are discussing these excise duties here in Parliament and that this Parliamentary Assembly, the present House of Representatives and later the other House, will give consent that they are changing or not changing, is a good way to get to the law. I would remind myself that the Customs Tariff Act says that, Article 5, the tariff defined in Article 2 is based on the draft proposal drawn up by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations on the basis of consultations with the Directorate for Direct Taxation and adopted by the Council of Ministers of BiH. I will remind you that Article 2 to which this Article 5 is referred speaks of preferential customs rates, provisional tariff quotas, etc., etc. There is a direct transfer of competence from this Parliament to the Council of Ministers. Of course, there is also a procedure in which we have since the Ministry of Finance since 02.10.2013 from the RS Opinion that gives a positive opinion on this. And in its Opinion, it refers to the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Directorate, which also discussed this proposal on 22.03.2013, unlike the Law, which we adopted here, on a customs tariff in which we have two opinions of the Ministry of Finance which have been delivered, and all MPs here, which directly speaks of the transfer of jurisdiction and that the Administration of indirect taxation, I have at least that paper of others, gave their opinion on 22.03.2012 and asked that the Law be withdrawn. Of course, when this Law is passed, it is obvious that no one has spoken against this Law, I expect the beer producer to give thanks to this Parliamentary Assembly for its urgent action and to give consent to amend this Law, not to have gratitude, such as the Law on Tariffs, the Council of Ministers, so the papers are drawn from individual companies that give individual thanks to Mr Šarović for his work. I wonder if anyone from the RS asked to transfer jurisdiction to do a job or just ask to do the job. I ask why this job has not been done, if it should have been here in the Parliamentary Assembly and that these same companies are grateful to us here in the Parliamentary Assembly for the passed law or for the amendment of that law, which we wanted to do. 40 Therefore, we will probably have a lot more in the coming period when we get to them, and you know that it is difficult to reach those decisions made by the Council of Ministers, which the companies have made and when they allow them to get something and discuss here who had a tsar about it. So far, Parliament could have discussed it in a transparent manner, and now we're going to ask the minister, who knows which tomorrow and what kind of papers you're going to give us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17807	Thank you. Replica, MP Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17808	My colleague Živković, you see, I believe that when you implement Mr Šarović's shift procedure very quickly, you will be supported by the coalition partner, because you agreed with him, since you agreed to, so that this type of tariff is brought to Parliament, I am fully convinced that you will have the capacity in your new congregation majority to do so. Next, if you think there are some privileged companies in the Ministry and so forth, you necessarily launch an investigation, I will be the one to support an investigation of any kind in the sense that any company has been privileged or not, when it comes to tariffs. So there's no need for that kind of approach. After all, the minister from your political party, eventually a member of the Commission, here is Mr. Jovičić sitting here, said this is a proposal from the SNSD and the minister, I forgot what he was called, but it doesn't matter, I know he's here somewhere in eastern Sarajevo, as it was called. _________(?) Zirojevic. Zirojević, yes, thank you, buddy. So Minister Zirojević is in this very content. The next thing you know, there's not a single vote that we haven't been to exactly the same positions in terms of passing this law. If that's the way to find you, among other things, the reasons for Mr. Šarović's shift, I'm telling you it's not because I think the economic operators here are the winners, when it comes to tariffs. Next, this law in question is against no one but on the contrary, it is in favour of BiH business entities. You do not need to work all the time to explain what reasons you are, because of the need to take over Mirko Šarović's chair, as you find the reason that it is the tariff law. Not at all, Mr. Živković. And finally, with regard to gratitude, we don't need any special gratitude, nor Minister Šarović, or anyone. If these economic operators will survive and will survive, among other things, such measures as are directed, not only to the protection of domestic production but also to the protection of other producers who are small and which large companies practically collapse in these areas, why not support such a type of proposal. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17810	I'm in a business situation right now, I'd have a replica, but if Parliament lets me do it without the chairman, or I'll take a break and we'll wait. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You don't mind? _________(?) We don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17813	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To make it clear, I have said and I will repeat, this zakon has proposed, but in another form, the minister who came from SNSD Mr Zirojević. I was the chairman of that committee at the time, which you are now, Mr. Bojić, and now I'm a member, and I know then what's been going on and now. But this Law never came before Parliament to adopt it as it came in the form proposed by Mr Šarović, because this zakon did not correspond to anyone and he was, as it is called, in a draft, a draft, a proposal, so that he only had the initial form in which the amendments were later submitted. So when we saw that this law did not suit anyone, he was never even put to declare this Parliament about him. That's one thing. And secondly, I don't want to talk about any colleagues that aren't there, you've made sure in the last session, I'm sorry there's no co-worker, but I'll never talk about her, that your colleague from the Pandurević Parliament Club had more documents on what happened when Šarović arrived in the cabinet as 42 ministers than he had. He never told parlament who asked him, where he did the concession, who he helped, what he did, but counterpart Pandurević said – that paper I saw, got from the minister, that paper came back then, that paper was here, that paper was there, that paper ended up like this, etc., etc. So today we're talking about this law, and we're going to remember our colleagues from the last call when it comes to these excises, there's been a lot of suggestions, and we're going to have to work on it. I asked for excises to increase to luxury gold goods, yachts, so I then stated that four people in BiH at the time had planes, I don't know if they have today, aircraft. To get the excises up to the maximum, not this one, if we're going to ruin it. And you've seen how much noise has been lifted, I'm not going to use the hard term, the shit of our alleged brothers from Serbia, as we're threatening their production won't be able to export, which we increase, I don't know, by 0.5 fening. Well, of these friends from the EU, not from Croatia, they're the EU, so we're going to compromise their exports. We've put everything and everything at risk. And I'll just do more, since time's running out, say two things. I remember well, '81. I have been at the aid of the Kosovo Regional Executive Council for years. Kosovo produced wine and Kosovovino(?) Come Slovinino(?) buys by 2,000 dinars then, and what my grandmother would say is, she gets the Slovinvine label Slovinvin and that's 100,000 dinars. Now, that's this production and excise in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17814	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17815	You see esteemed colleagues, as much as you try to make something that is simply impossible as a fact to portray as mistakes made by Mr. Šarović, who is a couple of excellencies both gentleman and man and who really did it fantastically. I know you can't stand it when someone from the SDS makes that kind of progress in the interest of businesses and businesses, especially in the RS, and why not in BiH. Because these are economic operators that come into a more favourable position. So I don't want to push you to dust that part of whether the percentage was one or the same, but the fact is that it's in the same content as Mr Zirovijević's proposal in the full procedure at each place, we have uniquely voted for this Law, both in the Council of Ministers and so on in the competent commission, etc. And so on. So, you don't have to, that kind of argument is totally inconclusive. And I know you can't stand the fact that among other things, one man is sitting in that chair, and you have reason to own that chair, not to do something in that area. Because if you send a new man out there, he won't be able to handle it so easily for a while, because he doesn't know one of the other opportunities, which is perfectly logical, first it takes him two or three months to get to know the problem, and then eventually the elections follow. And you are now in a situation where simply Mr. Šarović, with the energy he has invested in the ministry itself, has created assumptions that just such legal projects are coming to Parliament and that such legal projects are available to those who are producers in the environment and those who are producers in BiH, that conditions are created for a greater number of people to be employed here, and that they do not remain without the job of people such as trouble if we do not make such a kind of regulation that will be of interest to manufacturers in neighbouring countries, but also for 43 producers in these areas. I know it's not easy for you to handle, but what can I do for you? Stay in pain, suffer, torture, explain, you won't be able to explain it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17816	Thank you. I have the right to another replica. As much as anyone cares about the chair, there is a way that even with the SDS staff, you can't take it off the chair, as another party in the country has been doing in BiH for the last year. But I want to tell you that you look at things the way they're definitely done. Definitely done with the tariff when you voted, 5 of your votes missed that bill through this House without even one vote of the SNSD in the other, is that right? Have we had any amendments to that, don't pass on jurisdiction we'll let you pass that law from your ministry isn't a problem, but why wouldn't this Parliament think about it and not give it to the Council of Ministers, like this morning the mistake you made with the billing. You didn't want to admit it in public. So we don't expect you to admit this mistake that you made obviously in connection with the Customs Tariff Act. But tomorrow, when someone else is at the scene, the RS will regret your mistake. Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17817	I do, therefore, have a replica on Mr. Bojić's line. I don't know why you're trying so hard to defend Mr. Šarović. So, we here, I don't know that way, so there's a suspicion, we're not talking here about Mr. Šarović being corrupt in any way. But I would like to tell you one thing, so we are not talking and we do not prejudge this situation, but objectively if Minister Šarović proposes a tariff law in which the right to adopt and determine tariffs for certain types of goods and Parliament votes on it, objectively Parliament, on the proposal of that minister, therefore votes a corrupt law in which there is a strong possibility of abuse. And I'm going to tell you one more thing, so Parliament has been put in such a position by such a way that by giving powers to the executive authority in the exclusive jurisdiction of legislation, it produces a corrupt law in which there is a strong possibility of abuse. Whether or not Minister Šarović has done it remains to be proved, and we will have time to see what types of goods are and which producers have been privileged in this activity. Not only Minister Šarović, but anyone. So to vote for such a law means to give the possibility of corruption. And another important thing you're talking about right now, it has nothing to do with Mr. Zirojević, because Zirojević was neither the minister at the time nor he had any authority to give it, nor did the MPs who belonged to the SNSD vote for it. And one more thing, Mr Bojić, is neither this Parliament is the European Parliament nor is the Council of Ministers of the European Commission, and we sometimes call on these rights to compare similarly. In this sense, there is a serious responsibility for this Parliament to pass such laws, as it participates objectively in generating corruption that is at the top of all problems in BiH, is greater than poverty, both from unemployment and anything. And it's not possible that whoever suggested it didn't know what it meant to be the authority of the individual in that sense. Thank you. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17818	Thank you. Fellow Member Dušanka Majkić has a word for it, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17819	So, I guess there are limits as far as a man can and then after that he has to resent his colleague to say – you talked about different reasons several times today, and each time you haven't missed a chance to tell about that fantastic minister. When we talk about ours, then we must be extremely careful and not even say all the good that is. We don't have to insist so much, because you're destroying credibility, even if you think you can maintain that credibility of Mirko Šarović, you're tearing it down by saying it over and over again that it was fantastic. He best introduced himself to what he did. And if that's what defends him or doesn't defend him, then it's too high to say that he was fantastic every time. Leave it to those who cooperated with him to see if he was or wasn't. _________(?) But I think so. And it's your own arbitrary and it's not correct about your own like that, it would be a shame if 10 times for one of your ministers I say he's fantastic even if he was.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17821	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17822	So here's whether we're trying or not to try to point this in the right direction. I don't know what these other two did to Bog when the SDS only defends Šarović, nobody mentions them. Are they that bad and black or, in a package, the same. I haven't heard any nice words for them. Very interesting that it defends itself and hysterically defends Mirko Šarović, very interesting. There's a point in having a positive judgment about someone you don't have to stress them so aggressively because it's already causing suspicion. But we don't have a report here on Mr. Šarović's work. And that report will come. And we said that, and then we'll talk and there'll be a lot more when we're looking for it. After all, we can't even avoid it. He was the Minister of this Council of Ministers, but some things are interesting. A colleague of Prodanović was now talking about it and a man must simply point out because it is difficult to listen to. I don't know if people who say this listen to themselves that Minister Šarović was at a time when all the parameters in BiH went down, when unemployment was increased, when corruption was increased, when crime was increased, when external trade deficits were increased, when everything was black and black and only one good. And that's a good one with the main tools for all of it. He's the one who's supposed to be pointing. That's because as soon as he helped someone, that means he could theoretically help everyone, why someone. Why not, although he is trying to act as Bosnian Herzegovic, why the whole of BiH did not pull forward but back. For his vaccine, as it were, it went well back. If it's 45, I didn't say it was his fault, but to single him out as a champion, as a great one, I think if he didn't know who it was, he'd think he was a minister from Iceland, if not just the country indicated, if you'd listened to the eulogy. And that's illogical. Of course, on that people's horse every one of them praises, of course, I understand that there's a need for everyone to defend their minister. We don't have a problem here. And it's not right on that side to expect people, I understand, and the people of the SDS to think that that's the case, it's not disputed. But it is illogical with the environment, illogically, it turns out here too that Minister Šarović was alone in the Council of Ministers, that these are not the Council of Ministers' decisions. So does no one there know anything about these tariffs, but only Minister Šarović? I don't think so. And I'm gonna end up saying, and I thought that's a personal story that we apostrophed past, when it was Thursday, Friday, and if it wasn't, not me, the SDS was a baksupial party. Last time they defended Mirko Šarović when he was removed, Mirko Šarović ended up in prison. So,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17823	Time, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17824	It's very dangerous, I end up, when over the measure SDS defends someone, beyond measure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17825	Thank you. Niko Lozančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17826	I thank the Honorable President. I, unlike some colleagues, have before me a bill of law that we have received from the Council of Ministers. I don't know if we all have the same bill and I'm going to discuss the bill we got from the Council of Ministers. I must say, in addition to a good attempt to intervene in the field of excise duties and to help smaller, less powerful manufacturers of a commodity, I am sorry that the Council of Ministers did not make one broader procedure (?Because I think there was room and I think it would have helped other small producers more significantly, or, here's what I'm saying to business entities in the real sector. There's talk here, there's a big story about some kind of help to beer producers, I turn these pages 15 times and I see that beer excise is not reduced. So the beer excise is not reduced. Therefore, all beer producers in BiH who have so far paid 0.20 fening per litre of produced beer will continue to pay. What have we done to help them? I guess it's helpful that we reduced their excise duty. That's how I understand, logic. We, the only intervention here, have increased the excise duty by 0.05 pheasant for large beer producers that produce over 400,000 hectolitres and that's not one in BiH or in the region, it's some very large, I'm not sure we're going to burden them with these 0.05 fenings. I don't know what we didn't do in the same way, or the promoter who didn't commit himself, and the producers we have, though, are small, non-alcoholic drinks. We left them the same excise, we didn't intervene at all. So we could go there for some kind of increase or some downsizing of 46 to some big ones compared to some small ones. I don't see any reason why they treat wine producers like that. When I look at certain sectors, I think we employ a lot more live people in BiH in the wine production process than the grape production that is mostly processed in our wineries in BiH, where a large number of households, households, companies, however you will, employees until the very processing of grapes into wine is done, and I see no reason why we don't even have the same relationship with them. I think the relationship, but I repeat again, I think it's a good intention and I think this proposal has opened up an opportunity for us, for all of us who think similarly, to intervene more significantly through the amendment phase. I personally think that beer excises for these big manufacturers should be increased more significantly than this increase proposed. Here we are, in the Club, evaluating and I believe in the amendment phase, suggesting that it be at least as much as domestic beer producers asked it to be. It's 0.35 fening per brewed liter. I don't see any reason why the promoter didn't respect it and went with it in his proposal. We'll also go for an increase or an estimate to reduce the total excise duty on non-alcoholic beverages, because I don't understand, I have to say, where the non-alcoholic beverages came from in high-tariff goods. Some have mentioned some high-tariff goods for which there is no reduction or increase in excise duties that we do not have in this proposal at all. But I also don't understand why it's not more important, so why don't we talk about why it didn't work out, if you can say it like that, introducing a zero rate of certain excises, here's to non-alcoholic beverages and wine. Because wine is classified in food under our Food Act, and we tax it on the other hand as high excise goods. Because when we take how many living people we have who live out of that production, the question is, what do we support? And when we take how many of them we get, we create more problems for them in the process of production and packaging than we do in the budget. So, we intend to fix certain things in the area, but through the amendment phase, we will make our contribution to trying, here's how much, to fix this proposal that we've received from the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17827	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović discusses. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17828	Mr. Chairman, allow me to allow you and everyone present. The brewery industry in BiH is indeed now at an invisible level, at an invisible level. The brewery association, the brewery industries, they are appealing that there has been a decline in beer production in BiH and as closures, the recent closure of one of our beer shops, which is in Gruda. We don't really have this, and we'll agree that we don't have a lot of beer manufacturers, it's a Sarajevo brewery that celebrates 150 years next year, so we have Banjalučka, Tuzlanska, Bihaćka and that's Gruda's brewery as the smallest brewery that's practically closed. What would you say next, this year's beer production is 860,000 hectolitres, which is so much shown in 2011, and I can say in 2011, we imported 1,400,000 hectolitres of beer. So BiH citizens drank 2,200,000 hectolitres in 2011. If we take the capacity of our brewers to be 2,700,000 47 hectolitres then we will see that in fact we will agree that 30% of the capacity of the brewers only works, and those others, let's say, 70% must continue to be maintained as strong as possible, which collects the fact and technological process and burdens the brewery industry itself. The truth is the current Excise Act is that it actually introduces 20 fenings per litre of beer, is, with this Law, we really want bigger beer industries that import over 400 thousand hectares in fact, that actually produce over 400 thousand hectolitres of beer, to place an excise on them. Is that enough 25 fening per litre, I also agree that it is not, so that on the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs and representatives from the Foreign Chamber they have proposed 35 fening per litre for brewers that produce over 400,000 hectolitres of yearly beer. And I would agree not to be an average three-year period of production, but to be a five-year-old and it can be amended. In any case, the principles of this Law and the Law that are before us, I don't think it endangers anyone, that it's not discriminatory and that it would be good to help, I agree with Mr. nitko, that we also help other industries here when it comes to issues and wine and other drinks. This one, but our task here in Parliament is to help our industrial branches, here we are talking about the brewery industry, better this is happening here than before the governments and in front of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17829	Thank you. I'd like to ask the secretary to determine if we have a quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17830	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17831	I'm taking a break for 10 minutes. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17832	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the 55th session of the House of Representatives. MP Dragan Vrankić applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17833	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to amending and supplementing this Act, I have to say that, and in some ways, what they would say and testify to, uh, usually these laws are written by tax collectors, and then they're kind of mathematically seeing how missing or someone is beginning to criticise that there are no funds, so the easiest thing to do is to increase excise duties, especially on high-tariff goods. And I remember often our colleague, whom he doesn't have today, Lijanović would encourage the economy and then... suddenly half a billion, say, excises on cigarettes, so split it in his own way. That's just talking about cobwebs. And on the other hand, I think we're missing a strategy here. What's often heard here is that we have to sort of avoid domestic and 48 sides. I think we need to take care of our domestic production in one subtle way, and if we don't, we don't have a chance. Our international competition is lost in advance, and unless we know how to recognize it, and if we don't have a strategy to develop certain sectors, then I don't think there's gonna be any chance. When it comes to, let's say, the most mentioned beer is today, if we're not able to make a strategy to take advantage of the comparative advantages that give us the quality of water, which gives us very low concessions, I don't know the very low labour price, the favourable transport costs, which means very much affecting the price structure of beer sold, I think that's all of our chances that we need to know how to set and do in one way. This applies equally to other products. Here, it is no wonder that in BiH we drink wine from New Zealand, Australia, the South African Republic and often get prices and lower, and we wonder if it is really possible for wine that, I don't know, drives or has quality, who understands wine, and it has been running on a boat for months to be more quality than our own. I responsibly claim that we now have twenty, thirty winemakers in BiH who can place their product on every table in the world. And it's no wonder, let's remind ourselves, that France once decreed that every lunch must have a glass of wine, not because they like people to drink a little, but it was one big product of theirs, the interest of a large number of their citizens, so that would be what we buy, let's buy their own home. I also think we're missing a strategy, someone's saying it here, or should or shouldn't need an ad, sure we need an ad, I don't see any reason why we can't do it, and that our beer isn't as high-quality as it is coming from imports, if anything can be fresh, there's no concentrates and those anti-depreciation funds, stabilizers of various, I think it's certainly much more quality. Also another product, but it's already recognized in excises, it's a domestic fruity so-called. rakija, I think these are all brands for BiH, not to mention plums, pears, drenika etc. _________(?) And vines. Well, let the vine be something special, the vine would be banned, wine made from the vine, and then you can't make this brandy, if you're going to make a good vine, then you don't have to make wine, then as such a vine could already pass. Um, so I think that these are all some things that we need to recognize, based on it, and we can't have a very sensitive feeling that someone is telling us it's domestic, that we still need to find a way and strategy to develop domestic production, and that's something here that we're talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17835	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the 10th agenda. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda, 49 Ad. 11. Proposal for a law on working days at religious holidays in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, or here we have, sir, or MP Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17837	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Here's another law and another law from the Council of Ministers. Uh, to be honest, I'm not sure which of the ministers was the creator of this Law, but anyway it means that he passed the Council of Ministers procedure and, for a wonderful miracle, did not pass in our Constitutional Commission, because, as you can see from the agenda and the material that we received, the Constitutional Commission gave a negative opinion on the principles of this Law. And like every time we have a negative opinion, and we don't have any reason why it's negative, I have to say it's true, this should be a good wise man so write an explanation why to be against the principles of this law. This law, apart from what it defines, means the title, the unworkable days during the religious holidays in BiH is part of the implementation of an interstate agreement concluded by BiH and the obligations arising under the agreement, I will remind it is the BiH Agreement with the svet stolica and part of the implementation of another agreement concluded with one of the larger religious communities in BiH with the Serbian Orthodox Church. In proposing this Law, a growing religious community in BiH has been consulted in the draft of this Law, and they have given very positive assessments of the Proposal for this Law through the position of their Interreligious Council. And for a wonderful miracle now fellow MPs realize that they should be bigger Catholics than the Pope, this, so what the Catholic Church says – yes, these are religious holidays that should be unworkable in the Catholic Church, now Niko Lozančić should say – if not so. Or now not to line up further, uh, in all the religious communities that operate on BiH's territory. I don't really see any serious reason, not to say, that I don't play words, I don't see any unserious reason why this law doesn't get its certificate, here's for reasons I've already mentioned, means except that he's part of the implementation of two, in my opinion, very important agreements made by BiH and part of BiH's commitments, on the other hand, one area in which there's one general color, this and that we have to be aware of. Then why not arrange it if there is an agreement of all the important factors in BiH regarding the matter of this Law. And I will, here, ask all of you, colleagues and fellow MPs, to support this law in a way that you are negatively aware of the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission on which there is no explanation, and here I hope that I have sufficiently explained the reasons why this Law should ultimately be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17838	Thank you. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17839	Maybe I'll discuss it in a similar way and use the argument given by Mr. Lozančić, but with a different approach. So it is true and there is no reason not to believe that the consultation process, that consultations have been held with the Interreligious Council and it is true that representatives of certain religious communities have made proposals, at least that's what it says in this explanation,... how many days it takes for people to have the opportunity to realise it. With what Niko says is true, there is an international agreement with the Vatican that regulates these issues. However, it is also true that there are state holidays in this country and probably, therefore, people in the Islamic religious community and in the Orthodox Church did not think about this aspect, they do not care. For this reason I am interested, the MPs from the RS often use it, so let me not be resented, so that their invention, or their authorship and I, will use a little bit of it, are they, and is there anyone from the Ministry of Justice - whether they have been carried out... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And the civil, uh-huh, pardons, pardons, civil matters, so - have they been consulted? I'm interested in whether entity governments have said what they said about this, or the ministry, ministerial assistants, etc.? This is me anymore, it doesn't make any sense to me at all, but it would be very interesting for me to hear what people say about these solutions. So, as far as I'm concerned, there is a Law on the holidays of BiH, based on the Dayton Agreement, etc. Yeah, well, that's probably what Šefik's gonna talk about, so I'm not wasting my time. So, I think we have the law, but here we would like to hear the answer in these consultations whether entity authorities have determined, so the Islamic religious community also doesn't mind that we don't have the holiday law and that we're going to separate these two things, or the Orthodox Church, and Niko said exactly with the Vatican we have, of course, an interstate agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17841	Thank you. Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17842	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, the Constitutional Commission gave a negative opinion on the principles of this Law and, in its reasoning, it is stated that since different reasons have been given by individual members of the Commission to deny support for the principles of this Law, it is argued in the explanation that the members of the Commission at the House will show which reasons they have led to vote against the principles. And indeed there were two groups of reasons, one group of reasons is related to Mrs Pandurević's exposure, which today is not present here and the absence of some of the relationships that should be established by her statement on behalf of the entity – the state when such a law is passed, but 51 she will speak better or someone on behalf of her. I will now state the reasons why I was being managed, and it seems to me that all the other members of the Commission, the remaining members of the Commission who voted against the principle, why I or why we chose against the principles of this Law. So it's a problem that's been regulated by the holiday law so far. And the holiday law lays down holidays and unworkable days, but at the same time, the law determines or regulates the issue of days off during religious holidays, and it has always been a practice in BiH, and so far it has been done several times. The second thing is that we failed in BiH, so to the post-Dayton BiH to reach an agreement on a bar in that extent that guarantees passage through parliament on national holidays. And the law has not been passed, but for all this time there is a Dayton principle that says that the laws of the Republic of BiH apply in all those areas until the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopts laws and regulates those areas. And so, two groups of reasons that a few of us are, here I am speaking now in my own name, to vote against the principles of this law. So BiH can't just have a law on non-working days during religious holidays, and it can't, therefore, have post-day BiH, its state holidays law. This is supposed to be one matter and it's not allowed to be separated, a team before, because it's all been going together before, what I've been telling you about. And secondly, in my opinion, the more important thing is that if a serious analysis were made, and this was taken as a law governing matters in post-day BiH, the principle of continuity of the regulations of the Republic of BiH would be at stake today and state holidays would be brought into question, state holidays that the Republic of BiH has prescribed both before and before. Therefore, these are the reasons why we voted against and I believe that the House of Representatives should support the position of the Constitutional Commission and vote for the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission and thus put this Law out of the process. I didn't want this opportunity to use an argument usually used when such a thing happens is in reverse cases, but I should also point out that this law by revote in the Council of Ministers came here to the Parliamentary Assembly. The SDP and SBB ministers were revoted, so four ministers were revoted and the law thus came to parliamentary procedure most of the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17843	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17844	Well, here's a few words, to actually pick up where my predecessor left off. We know that RS has passed its holiday law, the same applies to the Brcko District, only the Federation has not passed its law and it continues to operate under the laws of the former SFRY, but it is not already, it is not precedent, it is mostly the case, most of the laws in the Federation are not passed but are waiting, the laws of our former state apply. And it doesn't seem like a single effort to settle these things, I guess, counting on doing so at BiH level. It's amazing that someone thinks that at the same time a law on national and religious holidays can be passed at the same time, it's amazing that we can't, we don't have agreement on religious holidays, and we're convinced that we can pass a law on national holidays. For many years, it will continue until it matures into consciousness in this country that we must allow 52 people to say what they want to celebrate, and that this way, as we have so far, that Bošnjak will expect that the holiday of the state will be what they like, while not respecting that there are others who think otherwise, it is a losing combination that will not bring us anywhere. I understand the need of Minister Sredoje Nović, who was indeed in a delicate position, because he has constant comments from BiH institutions that have no right to any religious holidays. So, I heard from people who work in BiH institutions, and they come from the order of the Serbian people, that if they are to celebrate the glory they go to celebrate the glory of the burden of annual vacation, if the holiday is some religious holiday that they celebrate, they take an annual vacation for it. That was why Minister Nović tried to fix it. However, we really don't think that this is necessary, that this law should not be supported and that for a long time it is not necessary to try to put a similar law into parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17845	Here we are at the end of the discussion, the last reported MP, Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17846	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I think that for two of the most important reasons we should uphold this law and bring it here. The first is the fact that the adoption of this Law would end the potential and often real discrimination of certain, members of certain religious communities, when it comes to their ability not to work during religious holidays. By adopting such a legal solution, all people who are religious and who belong to any religious community operating in the BiH state would be put in the same position and I think this is an important reason to pass this law. Something more formal, but also equally important is the fact that we are bound by certain international, international contracts, certain international agreements that have been undertaken. The BiH-St. Stolica Treaty, between BiH and the Vatican, is mentioned here, but as far as I know, the character of the international contract also has the Treaty between BiH and the Serbian Orthodox Church. So these two international agreements dictate the need for BiH, BiH institutions not to be without any real need, indeed without any real need, to be unworthy. I don't really see any real needs. And I'm just going to be very brief, just to say something about the argument heard by those who voted against the principles of this law on the Constitutional Commission. There is a big difference between national holidays, between national holidays and religious holidays. The national holidays, the national holidays, we just need to define, we need to agree on what the days are, which are the holidays that deserve to be marked at the level of the entire state as a state holiday. Here we have defined solutions, they are, I think, known for thousands of years more and the only thing we need to do is make it possible, and I remind you that the vast majority of the inhabitants of this country are religious, that they belong to this or that confession, so let these people, that without discrimination, they can not work when some of their religious holidays are in place. And that's all. And as for this, this argument concerning the Dayton principle, counterpart Džaferović Aneks II Aneksa IV is not specifically talking about the laws of the Republic of BiH, but is talking about the legal arrangements found. And this is not only how you keep the laws of the Republic of BiH but also the laws of the Croatian Republic of Herceg-Bosnia and the laws of Republika Srpska. I think that, that's not a solution, 53, but that the solution is that at the state level we make those laws that are necessary and that are realistically possible and also equally justified to bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17847	We move on with the replicas, although each of us knows the outcome of the vote. Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17848	Well, I hope, I don't know what the outcome will be, I hope that sometimes there's a good chance of trying to reason with colleagues' arguments in reasonable solutions. All those who knowingly, even though there is a difference, mix state and religious holidays are not right. Just because some religious holidays turn into national holidays in certain areas doesn't mean that it's become state holidays and that's not the way, that's not the way. So the way is for every member of any religion to have the right, it's a fundamental human right, we're bound by international contracts, and yet the question of selective application is still being asked, if we're going to honor one of these contracts when it's winding up, and some of the others aren't going to when it's winding up again. What standards are we establishing? It's about standards, so let's say that this law will question any law, any law on national holidays is not true. We don't have a law on working days in religious times or when we had one. So that's true, we've never had a law on unworkable days at a time of religious holidays with this name and this kind of content, ever. This is the first time in BiH's history to propose such a law, i.e. to try to resolve the issue. The State Holidays Act, not to be a dilemma right now, I'm here to bring it in as soon as possible, to take advantage of the maximum effort, understanding, mutual respect, etc. to come to a solution and have a number of holidays in this country celebrate all its citizens. I am absolutely for such solutions and ready to make my own contribution. But questioning each other, especially unargumented is not correct, so it is not correct because of our overall credibility. We want to implement one constitutional court decision today, and that's not the other. We will not implement any international agreements today, and if we hadn't voted on those international agreements at the beginning of this same session last time, we would have probably voted on a dozen more international agreements today. Are we going to spend them when they're winding up and not spend the same time with us? Let us take care of the credibility of all of us here, because if these issues, these solutions bother anyone in BiH, it is correct to say why they bother, what is the solution. But I don't see a single solution in this Law to anyone in BiH can interfere. It can, what counterpart Franjičević was talking about, remove human rights violations in certain parts of BiH towards certain citizens of the country. That means they have the same conditions all right to celebrate, to the unworkable holidays they celebrate. And I call once again, so let's plead negatively on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17849	We have another replica. Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Excuse me. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17850	The motive for my replica is to ask all those who warn of human rights violations, etc. to follow closely what anyone says and not to label us as people who are against the rights of people to mark religious holidays. So that's number one. Number two, I haven't noticed any discrimination when it comes to the possibility of celebrating religious holidays by institutions being celebrated, being accepted, being unemployed days there, and I haven't noticed too much that people are damaged. Of course, there were other times that were 20 years ago, but after that, BiH has a promise that there are no special problems and I don't mind all international agreements and agreements being implemented, etc. But I'm also against the fact that the state is being discriminated against in the sense of inability to have some holidays without prejudge which they are, and that's why I'm making it uniquely resolved, that we know how many unworkable days of the year, on any basis, that we know and plan activities, etc. You're witnesses to periods when, after a few days, we have different celebrations in continuum, and that should be done, I'm sure of it. I insist, sir of the Department of Civil Affairs, that you tell me if there have been consultations through entity institutions dealing with this problem? The Interreligious Council supported this, so the moment I was saying, now I'm interested in what the Entire institutions you consulted did, what did they tell you?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17851	Thank you. No more reports. On behalf of the Council of Ministers there were questions, is there a need to? Let us answer this question as soon as possible. ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Then still, a respected deputy minister or assistant should be doing a stenogram. So the debate is closed, and now all we're gonna do is get more information.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17853	Good afternoon. I am Damir Dizdarević, assistant minister of civil and business. I worked directly on this Law, yet the Law while it was about the holidays of BiH and the working days. So, we came into one situation when we couldn't agree on the entity, we formed various commissions, there were several attempts we couldn't agree on...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17854	Mr. Dizdarević, just to help you, so we're not going into any broad explanation, just to answer this question of Belkić and you've done your job. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17855	So, there was a consultation with the Interreligious Council and they delivered their opinion, the Islamic Religious Community, was the meaning of Eparhya Eparhija-tuzlanska, etc., mainly common opinion for both members of the Jewish faith and was with the entity ministries responsible for the work, with the Ministry of Labour and the Boraška Disabilities Protection directed this towards the Ministry of Local Administration and Self-Government, this, and they responded in the sense that it was not the Law on Holidays and Unworked Days in BiH, but the Law on Holidays in BiH and the "unworked Days" to erase it. In their opinion, we believe that it is useful to hold further consultations with the BiH Interreligious Council, which has been done. So that's the product that we have in the end, what was not disputed it came to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17856	I appreciate the information. We're moving to agenda 12, Ad. 12. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2012 The House College has not reached agreement on the Annual Report, and there is no debate here. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda, Ad. 13. Annual Financial Report of the Public Administration Reform Fund 2012 material of the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17860	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So we're aware of all the activities that parents and children have had in these days, almost 20 days before OHR, and before that, through school institutions, the school board of directors, the Minister of Resort in the entity government, etc., and we have no solution. We, in the U.S., talked to them and talked to them at the club and using the law of the envisaged mechanisms and what the law prescribed, we see that there is space in the framework law at the level of the state, but also in the entity law that treats this area, however, there is no obvious will. By misusing the directors and certain institutions, we are today, that is, those children and these parents have been brought into a very unfavorable position. With this, although activities in the OHR continue, activities with the OSCE etc., we think that this is a place where this Parliament is clearly and loudly to say that any discrimination, especially children on any territory of BiH, on any part must not be a practice and there must not be a rule, and I say domestic legislation that we can use, we can fix their situation. We from the U.S.A. will only propose at point 14. Conclusion No 1. would be – To be obliged by the BiH Council of Ministers to take action without delay to prevent further violations of the European Convention on Human Rights, the Constitution of BiH and the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH, with regard to the rights of children in primary schools in RS (Conjevic Polje, etc.) for the national group of cases and other rights arising from this Law. Another conclusion would be – To be in charge of the Council of Ministers to draw up information and deliver it to the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We didn't predict any deadlines because we think the situation is urgent and alarming and try to use the mechanisms and instruments of this country to remove this situation, because I think it goes to everyone in favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17861	Thank you. Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17862	I thank the chairman. Well, here, of course, you could argue with everything that your colleague Sarajlić said and that almost none of that is true, but I will not enter that kind of controversy, but it is more a question for you, Mr. Chairman – What is our material for this point? I don't think it's correct, it's so difficult to qualify without any kind of document, and it's like they're being identified as such, and you keep seeing what happens next, I don't think it's correct. You know how the decision was made by revote, at the very least that was meant when it was in, on the extended college until today no document, no paper and nothing that would be as soon as, and I understand the promoter, because there's nothing to support it, it's an empty and hollow story. But business is impossible to discuss without any material at all. We have a lot to say on this 57th subject, what everything is respected in the RS, and what is not respected in other places, whose jurisdiction is and what is left, but I think that... the basic thing that there is no material here, there is nothing and what we are going to discuss besides these incorrect qualifications that are presented.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17863	About the materials I just have to say that the Expansive College discussed it, I was one of the ones who also suggested that we have quality material for this part. On behalf of the SDA Club was Mr Mehmedović, he offered it, Parliament adopted the agenda after an extended college and today we have a agenda point, that was what was the turn of the move. The Republic has an MP, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17864	Mr. Kalabić, there is no hollow story here, so you go and see, that the children get a Serbian language textbook, and then children who want to learn Bosnian language, and then they are listed in a Jacket book to hide it as Bosnian. So there's discrimination, Mr. Kalabić. In the whole BiH state, implementation of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education and respecting the rights of all. And what we are asking is that the Council of Ministers, which is responsible for the implementation of this Law, including the Constitution, including the European Conventions in the area, react urgently. There are protests, children don't go to school, the Council of Ministers is silent. Have them do their part of the job, send us information, and let them write that everything's fine, just give us information here. We all know it's wrong and there's discrimination on the scene. What's wrong with children in RS learning who wants to learn Bosnian, what's the problem? That the children who want to learn Serbian here should learn, we have passed the Law on Common Educational Cores and Special Groups of Objects. Let it be respected all over the country and nothing more. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17865	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Denis Bećirović, is a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17866	The replica is not specifically addressed to anyone for the following reason. We are often here in a position to act as political firefighters, so very rarely or almost not to prevent certain things, to try to assume in time what might happen and how to solve any problems. When I say that, I mean the next one. In this House of Representatives, this year, using my business law, I have here on 04.01.2013, proposed a bill on amendments and additions to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH. And in that proposal, the amendments and additions were just being talked about these things that were now escalating. When this was on the agenda and, therefore, at the beginning of this year, we barely had a quorum here and almost no one in the discussion participated. Now that we have a problem, everyone's looking for solutions, now everyone's talking about it, etc. 58 I think this conclusion proposal should have made some more comprehensive approach, so let's see where we are and what we're doing with these things. It is mentioned here in the first conclusion of the European Convention on Human Rights. It is also an integral part of our Constitution, but the European Convention on the Rights of the Child should also be mentioned here. I'm not going to quote it here right now, I have it in front of me, etc., which is even more specific about these rights. And we cannot solve this problem at all in a way that we can only try to inauguration and set it in just one part of BiH territory. This should be put in principle in all BiH territory. Some have spoken of it, in that part I absolutely agree, and that equal rights are for all children, regardless of what the faiths and nations are, whether they live in Konjević Polje, Banja Luka, Sarajevo, Mostar or any other city and place in this country. A particular issue that also merits attention, perhaps even through conclusions, is what those from the international community are doing to help implement these conventions that are an integral part of the BiH Constitution. Because what we've got, and what's escalated, for example. in Konjević Polje, such examples, if we do a detailed analysis, I fear we will find, not only in Konjević Polje, but also in many other places in BiH. And it doesn't serve anyone the honor. If we cannot come to some conclusions today, it would be good for the debate to be considered by the people of the Council of Ministers, that they may be themselves initiators of some information that could result in some comprehensive measures that would regulate this issue in principle and consistent throughout the territory with equal rights for all in this country. Milorad Živković, deputy chairman, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17867	A way to find such a rogue agenda point in general in the agenda, and that is through an extended college where the simple majority of them are placed on the agenda. And it's impossible for anyone, so here's all 14 from the RS, to disagree with such a formula of the agenda point and not to keep it on the agenda, so we're advertising the position. Because the agenda indicates a violation of the Constitution that is out of your mind if you want to discuss it. So first, we need to discuss the position so that we can make some findings, not that in the name of the agenda point you're making a finding. And I agree with my colleague that the agenda item has talked about discrimination in every school in BiH, so let's discuss our colleagues. Let's see in the Federation what the situation is, let's talk about that the Gorazde elementary school "Nikola Tesla" replaced with "Husein Đozo“, an imam that was in World War II in the Nazi movement, etc., etc. So we're going to discuss all this, so let's see how that can happen for one genius to be replaced by one criminal. Of course, we'll discuss everything. Just because we're not telling us what's going on in the Federation, you think we have nothing to say about it. We have a lot to say, but at such a defined point of the agenda it's pointless to say anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17868	Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17869	Here, exactly we have to solve this button for Mr. Živković, all of what I had in mind he said because he was in a position not to see him on the monitor. That's exactly what I have a problem with 59 getting into a debate about this and going over what I insisted on and on about an extended college. At least I counted that the highlight, or at least the minimum of decency, would be that those who voted for this point would prepare any material, although it was clear then that it was a missed thing completely and that it was not correct. But here, in the meantime, someone with such a heavy qualification in the agenda is going to violate the Constitution so it doesn't follow through with any single paper or anything. So, I'm going back to the Rules of Procedure, to the material needed for discussion. There's absolutely nothing, there's absolutely nothing. For any other objection to any law, you have brought here 20 pages each, and you are unable to write three sentences for violation of the Constitution, so let's see how this violates the Constitution. And I don't think it's, at first it's not correct of all those who are, here's not to go into why they voted and brought us into this situation. Those who have supported this proposal have not asked themselves not to have any pages for such difficult qualifications. And of course, what Mr. Živković said, we have a lot to say about this issue, but not in this way. And about two schools under one roof, and about Stoc, and about Sarajevo, and a lot of things, but not like this. Not in this way that the truth is only one and that only in some kind, here is the parliamentary revote, as already explained, that you will come into this situation to tell only one truth and one side of the whole medal. And so now, I guess, I can't stop others, of course, because of this everything I've said I can't get into the essence and I'm not going in, because this really doesn't stand. Falsely, incorrectly, businessly incorrectly, degutantly for this Parliament to put an end to the agenda violation of the Constitution not to be followed by anything, empty, nothing, to be followed by a hollow story. Because I'm saying business, I'm not going in now as we differ in opinions and attitudes. Absolutely no single paper, it just says how much politics it is and it just says how much this is for daytime political use and it's just saying that one branch of a party in a small place is trying to politicise the thing. If it were a serious and correct story, she'd be quite another way to be organized and presented here quite another way. But since it's incorrect, you can't even present it in any other way, it was only an opportunity to discuss some other things, so that, of course, this topic with someone else, with a different preparation, is also being talked about. We're not running away from it, but it's totally incorrect to look into the eyes and not respect what Mr. Živković was talking about and not to look back on that story, if you want to show principle, but it doesn't matter, we have some kind of majority and we're going to do it this way. It can't, it can't go like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17870	As chairman of the House, I am obliged to say that as a material for this point, I myself myself insisted on an extended college to write. And he exists, he has an object and an explanation on half the page. So, is that enough or not enough, that's another story, but then there's this one material, and that's what was delivered to all the MPs. Just for the sake of the public and the other MPs, let's keep that in mind. Replica, MP Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17871	Well, I just got off the phone with a replica of my colleagues from the SDA Club, and now I have to replicate to you first Mr. Chairman. Well, it's impeccable for you to tell us that this is part of the agenda. This is to be a material for these heavy accusations and for the kind of criticism shown in this proposal to the agenda point, I can't believe we heard it from you as chairman. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17872	Well, I'm obliged to tell you that.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17873	Well, we see that, we have it in the material.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17874	Well, well, everybody knows.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17875	But you don't think this is enough material to discuss. Here he says, the proposer in the proposal when he says, asks that this point be placed on the agenda of the 55th session, and then down on the ground he says - that it is asked by the competent ministry to deliver information on this issue. We have a agenda at the 55th session today, but we have no information from the competent ministry. Now if anyone thinks, then we're not, the SNSD Club isn't against the story of this subject. It's a good thing someone asked for a theme like this to be put on the agenda. We certainly have much more to tell and to say and to give you examples, and what Mr. Živković and Mr. Kalabić said and what we all know and what we have information to bring it all out to you here and give it to you. And that's why we're interested in this story. So we're not against this for the essential reasons and for the subject, but because of the way it was delivered with such heavy accusations and such great criticism as it was shown. If you intend to beat this over your knees with these points of the agenda, take out everything you think and know, criticize the RS and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and end up at that point, then it's the easiest thing for us from the RS to bring down both your conclusions and whatever you're looking for at the entity vote. But we don't think that's the point, and it's not the point of this agenda. The point is to talk openly about all things, so let's tell you that we know about a number of schools in the Federation that have even more serious disadvantages than you mentioned here, precisely because the law has not been implemented. Let me tell you that I know that in Kiseljak at school where a small number of Serbian children go, first they don't have the religious Orthodox classes at all, and then when parents asked that for this small number of children schools and school administrations, these religious lessons that Bosniak and Croatian children are going to attend, to put it first or last hour in advance to make it easier for parents to bring, or take their child, and it's not allowed to do so either. And let's talk about it here and see if these are normal phenomena in BiH, not just from the RS, a small group of parents and the like. So I suggest that the Proposer withdraw, or postpone the statement on this item of the agenda, and ask that it be moved to some next session, to get quality material, and of course, according to that material, that we all prepare for this discussion, so we'll see what it comes out of. I think that this way of setting up the agenda point and with such provocative intentions it can only lead to provocation and heat on these problems, but that doesn't mean that we should run away and stick our head in the sand and run away from these problems. We should talk about them and ask how they can be resolved in the most qualitative way, not because of us, but because of people who have problems about it. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17876	Let's move on. Business has a vice-president, Milorad Živković. And I'm just reminding you, don't be inappropriate that I'm just reminding you of what we have in this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17877	The very fact that we didn't vote, when the agenda is established, that this point is removed from the agenda because there was no material, justifies our desire to lead this debate. We even left a few days to comply with any side providing material. But now that there is no such material from the SDA, nor from the resolution ministry, whatever it may be, then perhaps it is only possible for us to skip and postpone the debate, to discuss this agenda point, to propose for the next session of Parliament to anyone who is willing to bring it in. If it's not on either side again, we're going to ask the SNSD Club to end this point, or to take it off the agenda because it's simply not business terms respected. So, don't argue about this for the next hour, if we can discuss this item on the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with a lot of material at the next session. Therefore, our proposal is to put forward an immediate motion to vote in order to stop this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17878	Thank you. Can anyone on behalf of the SDA Club say, is this proposal acceptable?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17879	I have a replica, but I'm actually going to say why we're actually in this position right now. I asked this a month and a half ago for the Resort Ministry to be involved and to offer us an answer. If we had been responsible, that is, that is, that is, the authority responsible for the situation and for this matter, that was so responsible that today we would have all the materials and discuss them. So, my brief replica this time, and then I'm going to discuss it when I take the word after the discussion, so I think Mr. Živković's calling this some kind of rogue topic is, in my opinion, extremely and incorrectly and irresponsibly. This is a sensitive and overly serious thing for us to treat her in a way that it's some kind of rogue topic there. If the government were to do the right thing and the responsible people were to treat this job the right way, I think that today we would have a whole set of information, and then I'll tell you about how my question was conjectured. My question was conceived in a way that everywhere in the whole of BiH, if anywhere there exists and received problems of this kind, that we are manifest about it and that we in some way establish fair relations, because I think that's the only happiness for this country. And here, I'm going to have a discussion very soon, and then I'm going to talk more widely about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17880	Can I just do the replica? 62
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17881	Deputy Chairman, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17882	Mr. Šepić, you can't go on bending what I said making a replica. It's an incorrect name. So, I said there was a rhobarbized agenda point containing a finding that the constitution had already been broken. I didn't say it was a rogue topic. Well, you can't replicate it that way and put something in my mouth that I didn't say. Our proposal is next – let's vote on delaying next time. And put it to a vote right now to prevent any further misrepresentation of what is said and the good intention of discussing this at all. If they didn't want the Council of Ministers to prepare any material why you from the SDA, it's a big party, a serious party with a lot of, to say, prominent individuals, you didn't deliver these materials here even if yours from the Constitutional Court asked to write you a page that was broken by the RS Constitution. So let's discuss it next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17883	Business has an advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17884	... Rules of Procedure, you have shown a document that follows the draft agenda. Don't tell us it has anything to do with the material. There's nothing. After the oral proposal you asked for a written proposal and you only showed us the proposal of the agenda point and nothing more. We don't even have a letter on the agenda. So trying to get someone through, that it's like some sort of material for something, it's not. It's just your request for what someone tried even to stay on the lips and be, so we have a reasoned proposal for a agenda point, and then I guess it was meant to get the material. If the children of Konjev Polje don't deserve two minutes of SDA work to write, and besides this at least one leaf, then it's not okay to put it in our mouth that we have something against the subject and against the essence. But we have and repeat against the hornet proposal. We ask that you rephrase, we cannot accept the formulation without the letter of the paper, the violation of the Constitution. Reshape the name, the name of the point, if you need a break, in the consultations that we're interested in. And like this, of course, neither you can explain this, nor you can bring any material for this, nor can it remain this way. What will the debate show? Will she give those qualifications, otto-pot. But to accept it, we're looking for a requalification, or a change in the name of the agenda or what Mr. Živković said, because of course we can't discuss under the burden of stories pre-arranged, violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17885	We're moving on with the discussions. I remind you that the formulation of the agenda, including these points of the agenda, was done by the extended College and the House when it came to this agenda. Now we're talking about an explanation. _________(?) Or should we take a break while our material... 63 Let's hear it. Maybe here's a colleague of Sarajlić's has a solution. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17887	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, don't make SDA materials, there's in this country who gets paid to make materials. And about how SDA has teams and whether it can work, we showed it in the RS Assembly when the law was passed in 2011. Years. And he also knows that Mr. Kalabić has submitted to the RS Constitutional Court there, and through the Club of the Peoples has worked hard in this law. I just want to say here that within the framework of existing legal solutions, both in the RS, so both in the Constitution of the RS and in the Law on Fundamental Education of the RS, which was adopted in 2011, there are ways, there are solutions to removing this discrimination. So, the law has made it clear. I am talking about not implementing the law, not implementing the law of the principal of the elementary school "Petar Kočić“ and not implementing the law of Minister Mutabdžija. The Council of Ministers, Mr. Šepić said, for a month and a half, the Council of Ministers has been silent on this subject, a 20-day protest ahead of the OHR. Now to get into the genealogy of what was in '92, where was the school in Konjević Polje in 2002, we have all that information, but we don't want to bury this Parliament, there's a Council of Ministers, there's a resolution minister who needs to do his job, to enforce the law. Therefore, the primary school "Petar Kočić" in which there are 250 pupils, 150 Bosniak children go to Konjević Polje and Pocije, as a regional school, is a central school today in Kravica, has 100 students of Serbian nationality and nothing is disputed, only let the minister enforce the law. Let the director honor what he has promised, and today we would not have children or parents. That's the basic essence.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17888	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17889	No real SDA, Drago, material, so there is a Council of Ministers, has Mr. Sredoje Nović, the minister. How easily he knows how to put the laws into emergency procedure here in Parliament when he's interested, here's a month's silence on this subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17890	I remind everyone that the mandated legislators and the laws and points are not only members of the Council of Ministers but also MPs and delegates of both Houses. And the proposers of the agenda dots also propose agenda points, as SDP has done countless times preparing materials for some point. It's purely business and constitutional to have that in mind. Beriz Belkić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17891	I practically answered the replica for the simple reason that I received such a worded question in the invitation. And now, so what's now like a controversial violation of the Constitution, etc., I've received such a call and is thus formulated this point of the agenda. We can now discuss and conduct 64 discussions whether the Constitution has been broken, it is not. There are certain things that, in my opinion, give reason to point and formulate, because international conventions are above domestic legislation and we have taken the obligation to apply them directly in certain situations. However, I do not think, of course I will support the proposal of these conclusions, they are not unacceptable, nor are they, even quite, balanced and seeking a certain Council of Ministers' activity. So, you don't look here for some ad hoc decisions that wouldn't be possible conductive. However, as soon as it begins, here my experience gives me the right to say whether we have opened the story of human rights, any club of MPs, any MP, we create a kind of anxiety and in a very irrational way we are discussing, which is talking about our unwillingness to talk about a very important issue in BiH regarding every man in this country and none of us can tell in my midst everything is ok., great, not human rights are being violated, but it's a general phenomenon in BiH. And I say the following, let's say Slavko Jovičić asked a parliamentary question and received answers about the coat of arms and markings of municipalities etc. I followed it closely and analyzed it. The markings of our municipalities are roped by mosques, half-months, churches and crosses, etc., so the one-national features that clear messages sort of send to everyone else, so there is no need to be surprised both in the process of education and in other areas that you have discrimination from case to case where the majority is, where there is a minority. So this problem, in my opinion, is universal and I think this should be, this is what Desnis was talking about, and I think this should be an opportunity for us to open up a kind of process and face facts. Here's what I heard, and we'll take it out, and we know, let's take out everything he's got. And this Parliament should talk about the state of human rights in BiH, not only the rights to language, education, but also the right to life and the right to equality, etc. So, I ask that in a peaceful atmosphere we try to get into this problem in a comprehensive way with a goal, as far as possible to open the process of elimination.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17892	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17893	Well, here we go, let's make a deal and get some information. Here, I just told you, drago, look at your colleague's answers to your coat of arms... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, it is human rights. Dušanka, where the mosque is in the coat of arms messages is clear, where the church message is clear. So we're running away from the human rights story, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17895	No microphone 65 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17896	So look around you. Look around you and you'll see how human rights are violated, you don't need a single letter of material. Just look in the streets, in the neighborhoods.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17897	I have one suggestion, which of course you don't have to respect, which is that you try to express your position through the discussion, and that you all give up on the replica. If we agree or still need further clarification of the allegations that could cause a misunderstanding. Ambassador, i.e. replica, Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17898	Thank you very much. Well, here's to today's debate, since we didn't have any material but what was presented, I've requested information from the Ministry of Education, Education, or from the RS, and I've received the following information. That 98,828 students were enrolled in RS in 2012 and 2013, of which 7,213 students of Bosniak nationality and 459 students of Croatian nationality. The national group of subjects is studied in 20 primary schools, i.e. 5 central and 32 regional departments. In 20 primary schools, a national group of subjects attends 2,412 Bosniak students, and in 2 district departments of 13 Hrvat students attend a national group of subjects. So it is possible for children to attend those who, where there is no 18 as far as is supposed to be in one department, allow children of other nationalities to have religious science once a week. Then all children who are regardless, especially Bosniak children, or returning children, have the possibility of all those who are 4 km away from school and above, are organised transport and are being dragged to schools. All teachers who are qualified for the job, regardless of the nationality they belong to, compete equally at the jobs of teachers and teachers in RS. Gentlemen dear, for such material, the point of which is very sensitive, it is about children, it is about human rights, we need to have at least approximate data at BiH level and to say how many children, how dissuaded they are, if we are going to go to another, if Sporzum is signed and said that it is where there are more than 18 students to organize a group of items, then should we cut it down, etc., how much it costs. Are we going to make these moves under one roof of two schools, if we're going to separate the children, is that...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17899	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17900	Well, it is, but I didn't want to...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17901	No microphone 66 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17902	I wanted to complete the discussion, and you're going to extend what Mrs. Majkić took away from me.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17903	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17904	You can make up for that at the club session.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17905	Thank you very much. Here's a very short...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17906	But time's up now. Thank you, colleague Tomić, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17907	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17908	If you have something to finish, please, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17909	I do. I'll continue at the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17910	Thank you. Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17911	I replicate to all the predecessors in the debate without exception, because we have dishonesty again, we have double standards again, we have no unity and normal as we try when we answer. Everyone here is clearly entitled to their mother tongue in this country, the right to a national group of cases has children on the territory of their ethnic majority. Everyone else doesn't have that right and let's not pretend blind. And they're not parents, I feel sorry for the children of Konjević Polje and their parents, they didn't go to the OHR, they didn't come before this Parliament because they don't believe in these corny phrases as we worry about them anymore. That's why I called to replicate and I'm not going to continue to participate in the debate, so here's what I'm going to do, at least that's how I'm going to do my part.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17912	Ambassador Salko Sokolović has a replica. Who? 67
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17913	Thank you, Chairman. Well... there's been a lot of discussion about how we don't fully understand each other here. So some things can't wait. Parliament as legislator, so we passed the law, the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. He's the Council of Ministers. It needs to react immediately to the vis-à-vis existing situation. And the second thing is if we're going to be in the next five or ten days, here's the 05th of November we have Parliament. We can wait for information from the Council of Ministers on the complete situation in the field of education in BiH and discuss the topic, but something must be done at this point. And that's why this conclusion, number one, which speaks of the Council of Ministers' duties at this point, is very important to me. And let's not argue, here's what the president of the club just said, so let's not argue that in some debate on parliamentary which may be on November 05th, we're talking about the state of education in the BiH area, but give this segment of the human relationship to this problem to see immediately, the ones responsible for implementing the law, to see what's really going on here, and to be a part of that information that we should discuss here. Now in that part that you understand the situation, and here we could define a further situation in this matter, but here I don't want to open any further, I just want to discuss these two matters of urgency and something that we can talk about further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17914	Thank you. Ambassador Senad Šepić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17915	Mr. Chairman. So, some things I can't wait for. This one can't wait, we have to define ourselves here, and we have to act quickly. I'll just pass the chronologically. So, in 1909 I opened this question, I really expected that for some session of Parliament that we had on 19 September, I expected that within a reasonable time we would have a step, something would have to be done. So even when I put up with and when I referred and reacted to this now problem that has escalated in Konjević Polje and this Kotor Varoshi, I then pointed out in my initiative, in my proposal, and talked to Minister Nović and the people at the Ministry of Civil Affairs and asked that the Conference of Ministers of Education, therefore extends the body that is now coordinating the areas of education, to make us information, this is broader to discuss the state of human rights, the state of education, schools, etc., to the whole of BiH, because we are all somewhere minority. Each of us, if we are talking about the peoples, is therefore somewhere in the minority, so to make this overall information about teaching throughout BiH, and from the aspect of the phenomenon of discrimination and ensuring the right to education in the native language, along with a proposal for possible changes to the laws and regulations that such phenomena of discrimination would neutralise. Here's the obvious time to do a little bit of what's called, this wider information. But what the SDA Club did today, so it's heading towards trying what's absolutely urgent, and so it's urgent that this story and this relationship we have with Konjević Field. So we need to have some kind of reaction in that sense. 68 So I would ask you, and it is right that those who say that maybe another approach could have gone, which is that we do it right now, so the SDA Club might have made a broader approach to some of our proposed materials, but I ask you to support the conclusion in that sense, because that conclusion actually only increases what I was doing as an MP a month and a half ago, that the Council of Ministers should be actively involved. And here I would accept the addition of this chairman Bećirović, who will therefore say to prevent further violations of the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Convention, that is, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, so it can be extended, and that only in this, in the second point of this conclusion, that the deadline to do so is mandatory to have at the next session of Parliament that will be in, I don't know, 15 days that we have materials and that we can discuss this. And here, I owe it in some way and some brief explanation, and I accept this explanation by my colleague Živković, who spoke about the way this point came as a rhobarb rather than essentially, and in that sense, I apologize, if that's what I understood, so I reacted to my replica the last time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17916	I also thank you for your apology, of course. Thank you. I think we understand each other. The chairman, Mr Bećirović wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17917	I think that, in this and in a series of other issues, we can do a lot more that we don't have a hyper inflation of party demagogy on certain sensitive issues. Here's some of them talking like we don't know the order of moves and order of facts in this country, the government, the government, the government didn't solve it. What is power, what power, since when is power? Is there anyone here that can stand up now and say that these are human rights violations for me, for example. in Konjević Polje, for which in my court there is no dilemma that there are violations and the Constitution and all that are human rights, and when we open a serious debate, we will see that there are likely to be such examples in most of BiH, but we are asking the question whether this violation of those rights from a month and a half ago, when counterpart Šepić pointed out that question, from two years ago, since 5 or 18 years ago we live with it. So, let's just tell people for 18 years that kids have a fact in this country that, unfortunately, I'm going to tell the scandalous fact that they're breaking their fundamental human rights. What was done in those 18 years? Here's a fellow Šepić giving us a lecture here. So exactly was colleague Šepiću one of the heads of the Ministry of Civil Affairs mandate 2006-2010. Did it take you a month and a half, now that you're in opposition to running? For four years, you've been in that ministry, you've had a chance to recognize it much better in the resolution ministry if there's a problem. This is not a call for replicas, for the spread of the atmosphere, etc., this is an invitation to get serious, that when we propose agenda points we try not to suggest them when it comes to the extreme limit of escalating some problem. Let's try to have one greater responsibility all together and, when we propose agenda points, we have relevant materials for each item of the agenda. Otherwise, if we jump ad hoc, we're looking for solutions, etc., I don't think we're going to make a single systemic move. 69 Ambassador Asim Sarajlić has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17918	So, Mr. Chairman, we wouldn't have suggested this item of the agenda if we hadn't had information, but it's not ours, I say, to prepare information for this House, there are people who get paid for it. So here in Konjević Polje, Pociju and ultimately in Kravica, school facilities were restored in 2002, teaching began. So, I say today we have 250 students, 150 in Konjević Polje and Pocij, and 100 in Kravica. So we didn't have a problem here either with entity authorities or with the entity minister. Here things worked on the satisfaction of both children and parents by the end of 2009. So this isn't 18 years. In 2002, all three schools were restored, so if you want a school to which Serbian children go, it is mostly in Kravica and these two schools. And we had sensitivity and we had executive people at the ministry, I don't know who he was then, he was probably a SNSD minister in the RS, but we had, therefore, a Bosnian language textbook, which the children consumed. We don't have it today. The Šefik said that in the introduction, we have a fourth-grade child who learns Bosnian and writes Bosnian in his booklet excellent five, and learns Bosnian from a reading book that is for Serbian. That's what we're talking about. And we've had positive shifts in that area and we've been actively involved then and all of the NGOs, who have ultimately helped rebuild these schools, today we have retrograde events. That's what we're talking about. We're not talking about legal solutions that, as they are, they allow, because practice has shown this five years ago that things have worked out, they don't work today. And that's why your parents are here. And that's why tomorrow's parents from Kotor Varoshi will Šepić to talk about. We've had positive examples, these examples are collapsing today. And let me remind you, of the 36 employees of all three of these schools in the area and in the central Kravica, of the 36 employees of Serbia's 34 nationalities, only one teacher of Bošnjak... and one has a contract of action. These are things we won't talk about. But we're talking, so we're talking about the bright examples we had from 2002 to 2009. Today, it's a worse solution, and that's why both parents and children are in front of OHR.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17919	It'd just be good to talk to the right addresses.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17920	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17921	My kolega Šepić, the secretary, warns me, so you also had two replicas and a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17922	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17923	He keeps a man's record. Discussion, MP Dušanka... 70 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Which member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken, say so. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17927	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17928	How about now?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17930	So, I have a need without the intention to particularly troublesome it. That's the question of taking responsibility. Let me tell you, Mr. Chairman, we're not the same. And why aren't we the same? When I was Deputy Minister of Civil Service, those kids weren't there in front of school.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17931	My friend Šepiću, this isn't business.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17932	It is this.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17933	It's a poslovnički statement, you broke that and that member.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17934	You don't need to teach me what to say when it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17935	I'll take your word for it, you called for business. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17936	I'll answer you later, related...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17937	You don't need to say anything later.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17938	So how do I feel about this and just tell you that we're not the same, Mr. Denise?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17939	Of course, Bog forbid we're the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17940	There you go. Thank Bog.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17941	The word is Mato Franjičević. Here you go. _________(?) Dushanka, Dušanka. You're not on display. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17943	Chairman, I'm asking you to keep an eye on this, this has really become, it's lost all meaning. So you run a session, I can't influence it, but you can influence it. It is amazing that one of the SDA MPs, in addition to mentioning so many things about Konjevic Polje, said that there is a single case in the Federation where a Serb-led child learns Serbian according to the RS programme and learns Serbian history and that it is allowed to do so to a single child in the entire Federation space. I remind you that they... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17944	I'm warning you don't throw away.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17945	You're a disaster. _________(?) 72 [[no microphone turned on]] I remind you that the Interim Agreement was signed in 2002 and the Federation did not implement it in any part. The RS has now read to you Tomić, in 20 schools. Not all of them, but what to do next when the Federation isn't in any part of it. Why did you actually come here today with this proposal, with this request to consider it today? Because you thought, firstly, that the OHR would solve you by imposing and punishing the key, i.e. Minister of Education of the Republic of Slovenia. So when you got a clear message that you were going where to negotiate, then it occurred to you that this should be a debate here. When you agree that the same arches apply to children in Konjevic Polje, who were never more than 1 to 8%, from first to fifth grade, and the Interim Agreement says that a national group of cases is only being introduced if it is more than 18, then I would respect and accept everything you say. So, you have one way of opening up the issue of Bosniak children who are being instructed by the SDA not to go to school, who in the same way spent the circus outside the institution building when you used babies in that section and you also manipulated children in front of the census so you showed them to teach illiterate people who are, as they say, what they are and how they say, here's a third opportunity for you to take advantage of the chance to ban children from going to school until that minority, which is not covered by the Agreement, solves the question. When you bring in a Serbian child who teaches Cyrillic in Serbian and Serbian history, what you said today, someone will believe it's your concern for Bosniak children. The worst thing that happens to them is that these kids don't go to school. And don't keep them any longer. Do something that might serve as your gesture of goodwill to think, not only of the Bosniak children but of all children.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17947	Replica, MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17948	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. It's obvious you don't want to hear what we're looking for when it comes to this part of the agenda. We're tired of teaching from those who have a problem with the SDA, let them keep it to themselves. So we've had enough of it. I have made it perfectly clear that there is a law that must be implemented throughout the country and we have a problem not implementing the law in the RS in those places where people complain and say no law is being implemented. When we talk about law enforcement across the country and don't underestimate these people here, don't tie them to any political parties. And you don't need to tie the SDA to any protests. The SDA has never organised any of these protests you're talking about, it's a product of your fear or I don't know, not to use any heavy word when it comes to SDA, Mrs. Majkić. But that's really your problem and keep it to yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17949	Ambassador Saša Bursać, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17950	Thank you. Oh, I thought I wasn't answering. There's really nothing to answer here. But definitely this politics that is more hypocritical, I mean you're really exaggerating your colleagues from the U.S.A. I mean, 73 I'm so aware, I'm really among the youngest here and it's ugly and it's stupid that I give someone a lecture, but you really brought the material, you called the Constitution, you didn't write which member of the Constitution. You've come here to politicize maximum. You're talking, one of those problems down there is produced, and in what way, here and now I'm starting to suspect that you produced it, etc., etc. You're not going in any direction to solve the problem. You're well-proposed here to prepare some of the material, to delay it for the next session. No, you focused it, you're going to go out there now, you're going to make a statement and you're going to be some big faces. Please let go, I mean it's really unserious. Or at least at the very least write when you refer to the Constitution that is a member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17951	Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17952	So, I didn't make that up. The only politician to report, there in the neighborhood of OHR, was a member of the presidency from your political party and he provided boards to serve for a long period of stay there. So, you've well instructed them not only to stay long but to threaten what might happen if OHR doesn't respond quickly to your call. The only thing you've forgotten is that those times are over and you're going to make these people freeze there, even though it's a good time, but it's not easy for them to sit there at night, and because of you, they're there.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17953	Dear Chairman, Mr. Denis Bećirović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17954	Since I spent two replicas, I had a right to discuss it. So that there would be no confusion on behalf of the SDP Club, so our views were clear before this, and I will repeat them once again that there is no dilemma. First, all existing laws adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should be implemented throughout BiH. Secondly, I remind you, therefore, that I was also personally on behalf of the Club advocating amendments and additions to such a law that, if these amendments and additions had been adopted, they would probably not have come to such a situation. Third, the position of us at the SDP Club is that there is no dilemma that what is happening to children in Konjević Polje is a violation of elementary human rights, a violation of the Constitution, as I said in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the European Convention on Human Rights, etc. I suppose, and this should be done only when the full analysis of the Council of Ministers shows that such cases are passed by Konjević Polje in other parts of BiH. When it comes to two conclusions delivered by the SDA Club, I think they could have been more complete, as I think the material could have been more complete and serious for this debate, but what is there. We will support both the SDP and the other conclusion offered by the SDA Club, so there is no dilemma either. And what I specifically spoke of, which has already been highlighted on several occasions, so Prime Minister Nikšić and Resolute Minister of the Federal Government, Mr Mašić, and that is to be activated by those who are also in charge of the international community, which is made up of our constitutional system, to help all forms of human rights violations in this country from Konjević Polje and further remove them as soon as possible. 74 The word has an MP, Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17955	Well, I'm not going to spread the story, given some of the facts that have been heard, that we actually just need to get to the relevant material that we could reasonably discuss and agree on. I will point only to the need to bear in mind constitutional relevance, when it comes to this matter that we are talking about, and this is not only about the matter of education but also about the matter of the protection, or the violation of fundamental human rights. I think we need such solutions in this country that will suit reality as much as possible and as little as possible with certain solutions in some heads, so that will respect the real state and the real facts as possible, when it comes to our country, which will respect its diversity as much as possible, because we are not Japan, here live three constituent nations and living people who do not belong to any of them. All of this should be taken into account and such a solution should be adopted which will go in line with the interests of these people, not some wishes, such or such a political goal and the purpose of such action in the field of education. I agree, some international conventions are listed here which are relevant for the story and which are an integral part of the Constitution, i.e. the constitutional order of BiH. I would just point out that it is also a very important international Convention on Discrimination in Education and I pray that if we do, and my proposal will be on the trail of Mr. Šepić's previous proposals, we ask that we get relevant material and then open a reasoned debate on voma. I expect the promoters to take into account this Convention, in particular Articles 1 and 2.b) which speak about discrimination and which is not discrimination in education. I also point to, and we all understand what the effects are when it comes to return and about the remnant of exile and displaced, or returnees, what effects we create and what we can expect in variant a), variants b) and variants c), etc., etc., etc. And my colleague, Majkić. My Kolegice Majkić, in the Federation of Education, is not in the scope of the Federation, but in the scale of cantons, or counties.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17956	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17957	Of course, but you said that in the Federation you wouldn't find a case anywhere that...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17958	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17959	I know, but my county is in the Federation, in the Drava you will find the case, of course, that Serbian children learn from textbooks written in Cyrillic according to the Serbian curriculum and program, etc. Here, I generally hold that we need more dialogue, more mutual understanding, and trust to make some steps. And in this regard, and on the trail of what he suggested, I suggest that the Council of Ministers ask constitutionally relevant bodies for information on human rights violations in this area, so that, when this information is delivered to us from these 75 relevant bodies, we can have a thorough debate, because this is how I fear that we will lose ourselves in mere politicisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17960	Thank you. Ambassador Lazar Prodanović remains registered for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17961	Mr. Chairman. I would like to say immediately that we will not support such a proposal for a simple conclusion, therefore because Konjević Polje is unfortunately not an exception in BiH. Konjević Polje is a rule of relations with minority groups in BiH everywhere. In that sense, talking about this means what a respected colleague, Niko, has just said that the degree of mistrust of educational institutions or students is also shown in the way it is done. I also allow, the sad story is that children anywhere in BiH do not go to school for a month and a half or longer. We didn't do anything. There is objectively the possibility of an explanation or interpretation that it is part of manipulation, however we face it, in one way or another. Here in BiH, this is the current issue in the RS about Konjevic Polje, in a similar situation is someone from, one of the municipalities or, say, Petrovec or Sanjski Most or someone from Mostar or Sarajevo. And if we're talking about this national group of cases, we just heard one piece of information about it, if I could influence these people, those poor and poor parents, then I would recommend that they go to school. Because, be assured, rarely who, or a small number of people in BiH, knows enough language. A language that is 95% and vocal and grammatical and any other and literary form, absolutely understandable. So, children here speak poor and Bosnian, both Croatian and Serbian. I wish they knew anything. There are few children who know anything about Bosnian or Bosniak writers and literature, who could talk about Mak Dizdar or Meša Selimović, or those who might talk about Ivo Andrić or Miroslav Krleža or Petar Kočić. There are few of their teachers who read a single book annually. We can't brag about that anywhere. Therefore, if we were to send a message, it should be made clear that the 2002 Agreement is respected. Years. And I totally agree that we need to talk, if there's more, if there's more to it. I don't have any dilemma, if anyone wants to talk, to use their national group, so from literature to language, grammar, I don't see any reason to limit it to any number, including number 18. But to not go for two months and give him a degree that at the end of this school year he has all fives, it's absurd. From that same Bosnian or any other language, or Serbian, or Croatian, that they have all fives, I don't see that we've achieved anything. And if they knew the literature of any book, or any other book, if they read it, it would be of great importance. What about history and geography? From near history, we disagree, but they don't need to be taught. But I don't know how much you know about Old Rome, Feničanin, the Phoenicians, everything that's been past. I don't think so. About nature and society, too, about geography, there are few who can say what the moon is today, not to mention how far away it is from the earth. About religious science, I don't think there's any dilemma anywhere, and I don't see that in any sense anyone would use it, that someone should use some 76 religious sciences from their... What do we have to have, what don't we have here? What don't we have here in BiH...? We have some institutions that are nukes. where, say, children, whether they are Orthodox, Catholic, or Islamic religions, go to the same schools. That's good, I'm not going to say that I don't want to advertise them, it's a good example of a positive education system, regardless, and I didn't see that anyone understood each other. What would we need in the region, in the region of Southeast Europe, what did Bosnia not do? What we didn't do at all... The RS and the Federation? No Niko's opened high-end math high school. You don't have any names that mean anything, even if they can compete with their knowledge, with universities in the region, from physics,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17962	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17963	I'm gonna end up in physics, chemistry, biology? So, unfortunately, this is a story, and when we talk about human rights and discrimination, the story of polyticisation without effects and the disastrous consequences of a poor education system, even where it was and even who organized it. That's why I think, I'm just going to say one more sentence, that a competent ministry in the Council of Ministers through a conference... of this level should do a comprehensive information that could be the subject of debate on topics in which we agree to respect human rights and respect, here I am talking about, that national group of cases, if that is part of it and if they say it's part of national identity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17964	Thank you. What I'm saying is that, just a little bit, Mr. Vrankić, we've warned professional services that it's too hot and that the climate is on, but it's not possible to do that. Apparently, the lodge is somewhere outside this House, but also thanks to all the colleagues who are patiently holding the quorum, and it's only one MP. And I invite all those who listen through VideoBim to join the others here, as Mr. Slavuj can, three times today fell into the bride, to be present here, and so those who are much healthier can be here, so they don't have to take a break because of the lack of quorum. Dear colleague Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17965	Thank you. I thought you were gonna take another break from me. In order to understand each other well, colleagues and colleagues, I am absolutely for all rights when it comes to children, by all conventions and that all children in BiH are in the same position and that they have the same rights. I don't know when a respected colleague of Lozančić shows up in principle, I get a little red, I believe, and all my colleagues, but apparently the weak color is holding us, it's probably stronger the basic one below, quickly this second discount. 77 I think we need to speak correctly and be principled. We always get what we can, but when it comes to me, it has – now stop. We're kind of acting that way. I will first say that I would like to in this information, I suppose that it will conclude in the end that one information will be made, that it is seen, this area from all aspects, but first let it be seen where Hrvat live in the majority, because I come from the order of the Croatian people, to that very few municipalities where most of them are. There were usually two schools under one roof. Let all aspects of what was either correct or incorrect or wrong or from the aspect of human rights violations be seen, but we will conclude something, something and positive. There is progress, there children go to school, there are very comfortable, the truth in two schools or under two different roofs or two different shifts. I would also like to see the situation in the BiH capital as well. Let's see where the kids go to school and how they go. If really Croatian children can come to school or if we have to send them to the Catholic school center. I'm Catholic, I don't want to go to the Catholic school center. That's why I didn't bring my child to Sarajevo, believe me, because I didn't want to, I'm Catholic, but I don't want her to go to that school, I want her to go to regular school. But given the circumstances that are, I've decided on this variant. I also think it would be fair and correct when, right now, a colleague said, there are only 400 children in RS who go to school. I think it's all about the Hrvat in the RS. If we don't say this and look at it in one correct way, by the same measure, we won't get out of this solution. And I don't think there's any difference between this debate and that of the previous religious festivals. We didn't even get that step first to cross, and believe that those who wrote us those dates have a lot of influence on what we're saying today, and there's a lot of their thinking in this and a lot of that practical action, as much as anyone's washed away from it. So I'd like that information to be really and completely complete with all aspects being watched and to try to learn from it, not just for this area, but for everything else, how to take a step forward, be more honest and honest with each other and not deal with politics, really, what we were talking about today about excises, how to make taxes, how to hire our people. It's a real story for this Parliament, but of course, we're on the same issue, and that's why we're discussing, wasting our time, and here we are from Thursday on Monday, maybe another day, with a very slow agenda. This isn't a lesson, but here's an honest feeling, and I think this should be... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17966	Thank you. Discussion, distinguished colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17967	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So, for 10 years now, we have a certain kind of problem, when it comes to the implementation of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. He was brought in, as far as I can remember, 2003. In years, and the idea of this Law, and I think it's perfectly fine, to organize teaching on the principle of common teaching cores and special groups of national subjects, and thus to avoid both domination and segregation. To avoid the separation of children, but to avoid the domination of certain plans and programs to someone who does not want to. 78 That was the basic idea of the law. I think it's a good idea and that BiH in this area should seek a solution to the bill adopted. All the laws that we have passed from the field of education, and the law on higher education and later on on secondary education, etc., have their problems in implementation. Here is the problem, so in a specific case and why we came out with this proposal, obstruction and not law enforcement, the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. A colleague, Sarajlić, said that by 2008-2009, some information was said by 2006, that there was satisfactory practice in this area, and suddenly someone decided that these practices were no longer available. It went one step back in implementing the law. The law must be implemented throughout the country. I asked, if you remember, by now I've received three information from the Council of Ministers, one is related to employment as a whole, an area in BiH, the other is related to the joint teaching core, so for primary education, and the third is related to higher education, I've asked for a debate here. That information exists, they are made up, you've all got them here in this term, but Dom refused most of the votes, that is, with a lack of entity support, to discuss these topics. What's the problem here? Here the problem is the complete exclusion of one who is most responsible for implementing the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. When did you hear that the Council of Ministers got involved in this problem that we have today? These people didn't come here, and they're already staying in Sarajevo, and I don't know how many days they're staying in this weather. So people have a serious problem. I said one practical example. I went there among these people and I saw, so the man showed the Serbian language textbook and showed a student book in which the Bosnian language was written. He avoids hiding that discrimination. I am in favour of having all of BiH, to prescribe standards, and to allow everyone to study, to have children go to school together, to keep children separate and to be prescribed in all schools, to practice what the law provides, a common teaching core and a special class of subjects. So no one can accuse the U.S. of being against such practices, we voted for that law. We therefore support this practice and support any agreement that will lead to such practices, where it does not exist throughout BiH. That's why our conclusion is the way it is. We're looking for an emergency action by the Council of Ministers. It's not helping these people delay the debate, waiting for information from the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers must be involved immediately, as executive authority. Let them solve this problem, let them talk to people, to the authorities of the RS entity. If there's a problem in the Federation, with power, with canton authorities. Right away, so every day. That's what our conclusion requires, first conclusion. And of course that information is provided and we are not running away from discussing this issue for the entire BiH area. In that angle, I ask you to understand, our conclusion, the proposal for a conclusion couldn't have been different because each delay is unacceptable. It seeks the inclusion of the Council of Ministers immediately and now and full mobility and the activities of the Council of Ministers immediately and now. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17968	Thank you. 79 I would ask my colleague Lazar to stay, because I won't have a quorum, and then I'll have to take a break. I ask everyone from the club to leave an MP here for a deposit, but we can't work like this. Replica, the esteemed Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17969	Mr. Chairman. I would understand and understand all of this, and my colleague Džaferović is very right, but when he says "prefix" that word, if there is one in the Federation. I ask you whether you really are convinced and to use it in front – if there is, and you know that there is. In this information requested by Mr. Živković and Kalabić, not that my colleagues from the SNSD, I ask that this information also contains the following information: – Who brought these people two months before OHR and what logistics is behind them? Is that what they dragged so much food in two months that they could be there, water, all the needs? Do you believe me, I'm going to say this, Bog is my witness, I don't want to be wrong, I have health problems, and I don't want to take it on myself, I'm ashamed when any television shows a child, and it's abuse, media confusion, to show children playing under tents, to cause some attention, compassion, and to have someone succumb to some influences. Is this not the biggest discrimination, is it not the greatest abuse, is it not, after all, human shame to show and accuse RS when it is known that it is in the whole of BiH. So I would like to join Mr. Živković and Mr. Kalabić's proposal and my colleagues – please gather the material, but make sure that the material stands, which logistics. Well, these people aren't so wealthy that in two months they've brought in food and all kinds of needs. Well, I live in a comfortable apartment, so I need a lot of things, I can't take two nights and two days if I don't have electricity, if I don't have water, if I don't know what. So please and this is a good recommendation, we'll open the question, we don't run from the RS, but you'll see, now I'll just point out, the census will show where this so-called segregation is being committed, where all that existence that once existed in pre-war BiH is being denied, and what is the situation in this whole unfortunate country today.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17970	Thank you. Discussion, dear colleague Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17971	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just after some discussions, right to tell you, I'm not happy to answer. First of all, it hurts me how many times we've thought about going into this room whether we're carrying a heart and soul with us or leaving it outside. I've been following you for three years, I've never seen you, I don't know what you look like, whether you're pretty or ugly, fat or skinny, short or tall, but I'm reading your characters, probably, incredibly well, as a good psychoanalyst. And many of you, many of you, I liked them, and let me tell you, as people. When we talk about problems like this, we forget one basic rule, it's not, as our colleague Mr. Bećirović says, how many conventions we break, and we break hundreds. How do we break them? On a very ugly one. That's not the problem. And when I'm seven, 80 years old, I'm thinking about how much people we really are when we go so easily over what's individual to all of us here, all and once, the most sacred of our lives -- a child. And we're all behind it. I'm just afraid that we're a little bit selfish here, too, but we can tell our child from someone else's child. It's a very ugly human character trait. We all know how many relapses this unfortunate past has left in the last 20 years in these areas, how sad and sad this country is still. And the relapses are still catching up and outreaching us in every attempt to change something for the better. Here's what this has become. So I say, I'm very, very surprised, right at the beginning, at the beginning of such an outpouring of the very hint of this topic. Why my people, why? You don't have paper evidence, you don't have material, nobody explained much, wrote it, gave it to you. When it comes to that kid over there, you were talking, but you didn't hit the right wire when you talked about it. You have the material, we all have the material. Here's a few steps, five minutes walk from here. Those kids are our material. It's been born, it's good to rock it, my people. They're there. Did anyone ask them if they wanted to be there? They look at those spoiled little eyes in the older ones what they're doing and why are they here? Why aren't they with their school buddies and friends, playing in schoolyards, still fighting over school benches, living a life that should live like children? It's our fault, it's not them, it's our fault. And we're taking part of the guilt here today for nothing, but we're not doing anything and we're not suggesting anything. It's our fault, you know. We need to think about it. And so I ask you once again, ladies and gentlemen, let's stop being ladies and gentlemen, let's just be people. It's a rough winter, it can snow tonight, Bosnia is like that, let's solve the problem that's in front of us, next to us, to solve it, and we'll solve the rest, so far as we can get there. This has to be solved because this is a disgrace and a disgrace to all of us. Don't take it out on the Bosniaks, on the Hrvat, on the Srbin, on the entities, on the cantons, this is a disgrace to us as humans. 21st century, people conquer Mars, make... and we hold our children under tents. What kind of people are we? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17972	Thank you. This closes the debate on the 14th agenda. We're going to the 15th point of the agenda, Ad. 15. Consideration of Parliamentarian Mate Franjičević's initiative with the 52nd House session, held on 29.08.2013, which reads: "Taken into account that BiH is a member of the Council of Europe, that it sees its future in the European Union and that it is a democratic country, which, of course, implies the acceptance of the relevant European and civilization standards, as well as the general standards of democracy, I find it useful and necessary for the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to carry out the debate, and asks the Council of Ministers of BiH to define and propose a resolution on the condemnation of the crimes of totalitarian communist regimes, as well as a declaration on 23 August of the European Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes." The Joint Commission delivered its opinion on the initiative 21.10.2013. The initiative is not supported. 81 I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17975	Thank you. First, let me say that this initiative, that I have submitted this initiative for a number of reasons. I'm going to mention two, to make a whole short story, to mention two, in my opinion, the most important. The real reason is that I believe that because of ourselves and the future of this country, we need to deal with, uncompromisingly, our overall totalitarian past, with everything that was in it that was not in line with the standards that we have identified by accepting the democratic political order and democratic system of values, accepting, democratic standards and by accepting European civilization standards on our path towards the EU. I think it's a significant problem that in our own heads we haven't freed ourselves of the way of thinking and valued characteristic of the communist totalitarian system, and that's why very often instead of the general interests of the community, we prefer partial interests, partial interests, interests of our own party, I don't mean this party or that party, the parties that exist, it's a way of thinking and estimating, its groups, etc., etc. So we prefer the things that should be in the second or third plan in relation to the community's interest as such as the whole. In doing so, it is very clear that these, that such thinking and evaluations are characteristic of this past system, are highly desirable and tempting. It is tempting to be in power, not to go to elections, not to test the mood of the people according to their own political moves. It is tempting to make decisions such as in the safety of a committee without excessive contact with reality. It is tempting, instead of discussing, instead of arguing with political opponents or political partners, to make decisions. It's tempting to have your truth, and it's tempting to be the only one. However, all of this has absolutely nothing to do with the values, including the logic and the way we think and value for which we have declared ourselves to be, and in reality, of course, we are very much coughing. In my opinion, that's the essential reason. The formal reason lies in the fact that we are a member of the Council of Europe and that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has so far adopted two relevant resolutions condemning crimes committed in totalitarian communist regimes. One is the '96 Resolution. The year, number 1096, and the second one from 2006 is on the trail of that Prague Declaration by Vladislav Havel No. 1481. In doing so, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe called on the member states of the Council of Europe to do the same. So we have a formal obligation and we'll have to do it eventually. I think it's a mature time to make that civilization step and, yes, we won't adopt the resolution now, but to task the Council of Ministers to do so and then to discuss, we'll have time. If someone thinks that Resolution should not be accepted for real essential reasons, then there will be an opportunity to show what is not good in that Resolution and that it is eventually either done or adopted or 82 rejected. This is what the European Parliament Resolution adopted in 2009, the Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism commits us to.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17976	The discussion time is up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17977	I remind you, if you could, given that I'm a proposing, give me a minute more just?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17978	Well, I've already given you 30 seconds more than I should.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17979	Thank you. Come on, half a minute, here. So, in this Resolution, the European Parliament, and we want to be a member of the EU, has called on all member states and countries to claim EU membership to bring the same resolution and to bring the institutions to the European Day on 23 August to remember the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. In BiH, a similar resolution was adopted in the Federation House of Peoples alone. There were no other movements. I think really, and I expect a consensus of course on this, I think it's time we asked the Council of Ministers to do to us what is required of this initiative, to get it on the benches and then open the debate, to possibly change something, add or subtract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17980	Here, you heard on behalf of the promoter, the proponent expects a consensus and others expect a consensus on the other hand. The word has Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17981	I'm on my side, so very briefly because I see that patience is at the end. Mr. Franjičević has very precisely diagnosed what is alluring and I do not have the arguments not to say that it is not tempting. And this second argument, which he made, is absolutely acceptable and I have no objections to it, regarding the conventions, the behaviour of the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, etc. However, ten minutes ago, we completed a discussion on human rights and today we spent a lot of time and according to the way we handle human rights and some things here in our own country, I think, what the lawyers would say, that we don't have the active legitimacy to bring any resolutions. And we've already shown that in practice, so we haven't even accepted the resolution on the condemnation of genocide and so on. So, absolutely, Mr. Franjičević, there's no problem with me, of course there are some formulas we could discuss, but I'm speaking now in general, it's true, you've all said well what's tempting, but you need to see who's bringing that resolution. So, 83 people who talk about human rights in Europe 50 years ago are put in ad act, so we don't have an active ID and I'm not going to support any more resolutions after refusing to adopt a resolution on the condemnation of genocide in Srebrenica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17982	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a discussion? Here's what I'm holding back from calling. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda, Ad. 16. Consideration of the Opinion on the extension of the mandate of the House of Representatives to determine the legality of the handling of competent state authorities in the event of the detention and detention of Šemsudin Mehmedović, MP at the House of Representatives I'm opening a debate. The chairman of these Investigation Commissions and MP Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17984	... I telegraphly urge my colleagues to support this proposal's conclusion because we lost a month of appointments to formation. As an MP, I suggest you support this proposal for a conclusion that would abolish the compensation for this period.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17985	MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17986	So I want to explain this how our president represents us well, that we never propose him anywhere again, never to any committee, let alone to be chairman. So imagine, please, we were appointed on 07.08. At a time when we all went on vacation and returned at the end of the eighth month only then was our constitution. And we do actually two months full and he suggests that out of those two months, we were one means on vacation, that's the one we're looking for an extension, that this, this month where we worked most to not pay for it. I ask you not to support such insubordinate conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17987	I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 17th point of the agenda, 84 Ad. 17. Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on granting approval for ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on border crossings There's no discussion here. The vote's at half past six, so 20 minutes. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17990	No microphone 85 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17991	A kolega, Šepić, is withdrawing this proposal. We now move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Responsibility for Nuclear Damage – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading). The proposal for a law is, therefore, in a second reading with the amendment contained in the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Report. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that this bill was adopted in the House of Representatives. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on indirect taxation - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we adopted this law in the second reading. We move to a vote on the 8th item of the agenda – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on a Witness Protection Programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (Law in Second Reading). We vote only in the second round on the draft law in the second reading with 11 amendments contained in the Constitutional Commission Report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that this bill in the second round has received the required majority, i.e. it has no 2/3 against it. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection and Well-being Act – Proposer: MP Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović (first protection). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. We have a request for a repeat vote. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the general majority, we have the entity and this law is adopted in the first reading. 86 We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we adopted this law in our first reading. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on working days at the time of the religious holidays in Bosnia and Herzegovina – proposes: the Council of Ministers of BiH with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. So we're voting on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. We have the necessary general majority, but not the entity majority. Shall we go straight to the second round? I'm in.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17992	Well, we can't do it without a third member.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17993	So, a later statement. We are going to item 12 of the agenda – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2012. We vote in the second round of the Annual Report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that in the second round this report has received the required majority, we have no 10 against the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17994	But some didn't vote, now I see they were present but they didn't vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17995	So they have the right to...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17996	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17997	Who wants to repeat the vote? 87 At the request of one of the clubs we repeat the vote. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I agree that we have the same vote and that this report has received the required majority. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Annual Financial Report of the Public Administration Reform Fund for 2012, material of the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office. This is where we vote on the adoption of the report. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary general majority, we don't have the entity. It's an ex post adjustment.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17998	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u17999	Business intervention, deputy chairman Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u18000	Thank you. I, from the beginning, have seen things that... take place, here in the hall can be present to vote or not vote or take out a card and not vote. You can't be present and not vote, every right says in the Rules of Procedure that you are present... in the quorum and have the right to vote or not to vote. If you're registered in an O.R., take out your card and don't vote it's your right, but to be present and it counts here that the number of MPs is so high, and the number of votes missing can't do that, it's simply in conflict with the Rules of Procedure. Read to your colleagues, and you will understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u18001	A colleague of Živković's had a business intervention. I'm asking the secretary to read this business provision for a decade.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u18002	Article 80(5) – If the MP does not declare himself against, against or abstention when voting, and he is present in the hall at the time of the vote, he is considered to be abstention. So you can, you can do it this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u18003	It means we've solved this question. We're going to the 14th point of the agenda. 88 (?) No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u18004	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u18005	A colleague of Živković has an intervention of business nature, please pay attention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u18006	I'm just asking you to explain to the secretary where it says that when the card was inserted that it was the number of MEPs who voted and that he was electronically registered to be present. The other thing is an electronic presence with a card, and the other thing is a personal presence when someone takes out a card, that's all I'm interested in explaining, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u18007	Can we approach the vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u18008	If that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u18009	The secretary read a provision relating to the vote. If you think there's any other provisions we need to consult... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need for anyone, you all have a Rules of Procedure I hope in front of you, you heard. The only message I can send as chairman at this time, as the work is under way to amend the Rules of Procedure to define this issue more precisely in some subsequent period. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Information on the violation of the BiH Constitution in Republika Srpska with regard to the right to a national group of courses in Konjević Polje and Others – Proposers: MPs from the SDA Club. So here we will vote first on two conclusions from the SDA Club. You've got the conclusions, so can we just put it that way in the loudspeaker's package? Please prepare to vote. Vote now. 89 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u18012	No microphone 90 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u18013	We're voting about adoption, yes...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u18014	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-28-0.u18015	And what wasn't written in that one? I apologize, however, for voting on another conclusion within this point, which is this conclusion concerning the extension of the Commission's work. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have adopted this conclusion. And now we move to the 17th point – The Commission's report on an effort to reach agreement on granting consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on border crossings. Here we vote in the second round on giving consent to ratify the contract. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have ratified this Treaty. I note that the next session is scheduled for 05 November 2013. I am concluding the 55th session of the House of Representatives and thank you for your cooperation. Session completed at 5:50 p.m.
