ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-16-1.u19243	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 60th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence was justified by MPs Mladen Bosić and Senad Šepić. According to the service information, the session is present at the moment, or 31 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. I find that there are no reports of a debate on the agenda, and I am closing the debate on the agenda. So, the 60th Session of the House of Representatives has the next Agenda 1. Proposal for a Bill on Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014 – Proposer: BiH Presidency, Law No: 01,02-02-1-57/13 of 09.12.2013, (second reading) We move to the realization of the agenda, so to the first item of the agenda. But before we go to work, I would like to inform you that after consulting within the College, the College has decided, and also at the recommendation of a large number of MPs, to take a break, in order to deliver this Commission report to all MPs before the start of the debate. It's 1:30, so we're back to work at 2:30. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, so we took a break with the aim of the Finance and Budget Committee completing its session and drawing up a report. The Commission has sat down until now and I will read first what is the conclusion of the current Commission. 2 The Finance and Budget Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives reached the following conclusion at its 45th session, held on 16 December 2013, with 5 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 1 abstention: the Finance and Budget Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives postpones its statement indefinitely on the draft law on the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2014 at the second commission stage. After we received this conclusion from the Commission, the College met and we concluded that we are now offering the House of Representatives first to declare the proposal to continue this session at 12:00 p.m. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that the House of Representatives has adopted this conclusion. The session resumes on Monday... _________(?) Let's do it again.
