ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2411	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, dear guests, I warmly welcome you and open the 27th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 14 delegates, of which 4 from the Bosniak order, 5 from the Croatian and 5 from the Serbian people. Dear Chairman of the House of Peoples, Mr. Sulejman Tihić is not able to attend the session for justified reasons, so I am asked to assume his duties in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. For the 27th session, I propose the following amended Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 26th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Answer the delegates' questions and new delegates' questions; 3. The request of delegates Borjana Krišto, Staša Košarac and Sulejman Tihić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption under the shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 01,02-02-1-52/12 of 10.12.2012; 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2013 by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Act No 01,02-02-1-6/13 of 29.01.2013; 5. The request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on the basis of traffic security on the roads to Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Law No 02-02-1-13 of 19.02.2013; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-38/12 of 28.11.2012; 2 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Judicial Police (Second Reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-50/12 of 04.12.2012; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-51/12 of 07.12.2012; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-213 of 09.01.2013; 10. Proposal for a Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, displaced persons and returnees (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-3/13 of 10.01.2013; 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No 01.02-02-1-5/13 of 22.01.2013; 12. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-43/12 of 25.12.2012; 13. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-44/12 of 25.12.2012; 14. Information on the adopted conclusions of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the degree of their realization, material number: 02-50-19-193/13 of 07.02.2013; 15. Information on the draft nomotechnical rules for the making of laws and other regulations in BiH institutions, material of the Council of Ministers, No 01,02-50-19-1070/12 since 12/09/2012; 16. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to implement the procedure for the appointment of members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, issue 01.02-34-1-13 of 25.01.2013 (proposed by the Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses); 17. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's home to draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01.02-34-1-133/13 of 25.01.2013 (proposed by the Joint College of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH); 18. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the Consensus of the Decision appointing members of the National Minority Council of BiH, material number: 01,02-34-1-132/13 of 25.01.2013 (proposed by the Joint College of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH); 19. Consider the extension of the mandate to BHRT Management Board member, BHRT Secretariat material, number: 01,02-29-127/13 of 25.01.2013; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Credit Agreement (Modernisation of the University of Bihaq) between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Raiffeisen Bank International AG, material of the BiH Presidency, number: 01.02-05-2-38/13 of 03.01.2013; 3 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement, Technical assistance for the Highway to Corridor 5c – BiH (Technical assistance under the Investment Framework for the Western Balkans) between the European Investment Bank and Bosnia and Herzegovina and JP Autoway FBiH d.o.o. Mostar, BiH Presidency material, issue: 01,02-05-2-130/13 of 25.01.2013; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Vlada of Rumunija on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the reading of persons staying without authorisation, the material of the BiH Presidency, No: 01,02-05-2-39/13 of 03.01.2013; 23. Giving consent to ratification of the 2011 IPA cross-border co-operation programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission, Bosnia and Herzegovina – Serbia, as part of the IPA cross-border co-operation component for 2011, BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-165/13 of 04.02.2013; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission concerning the Horizontal Programme on Nuclear Security, the protection against radiation under the 2011 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, the BiH Presidency material, issue: 01,02-05-2-166/13 of 04.02.2013; 25. Giving consent to the ratification of Appendix 1 of the 2009 Financial Agreement relating to the state programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina – Part II of the IPA component of the transition aid in strengthening institutions, the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-167/13 of 04.02.2013; 26. Giving consent to ratification of the Security Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-198/13 of 08.02.2013; 27. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on co-operation in the field of tourism, BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-1431/12 of 24.12.2012; 28. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on Defence Co-operation, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-1446/12 of 26.12.2012; 29. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on defence co-operation, the BiH presidency's material, number: 01,02-05-1-1025/12 since 23.08.2012. I'm opening a discussion, please. Dear colleague Mehmed Bradarić came forward for his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2412	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ministers, guests, good afternoon, everyone. I propose that today's session be included in the resolution on respect and support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Azerbaijan, I propose that this be points 20, so before giving consent to these agreements. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2413	Thank you. A distinguished colleague, delegate, Borjana Krišto, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2414	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. Here is also in the debate on the agenda point of this session today, I propose that point 29, which is to – Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cooperation in the field of defence, the materials of the BiH Presidency, number 01.02-05-1-1025/12 of 23.08.2012 withdraws from today's session of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2415	Thank you. I find that there are no further applications for participation in the discussion on the agenda itself, so let's move on to a statement. I call on you to make a statement on the proposal of distinguished colleague Mehmed Bradarić, that the resolution on respect and support for sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Azerbaijan is to be classified as the 20th item of the agenda at this session. Start the vote. Thank you. I find that in this vote of 14 delegates – for any 12 delegates, no delegates were against, and two delegates were abstentioned. From the Federation – 8 for, no one against and 1 abstention. From RS – 4 for, there is no abstention 1. Since there is a general and entity majority I find that this proposal has been adopted. I now invite you to make a statement on the proposal of the distinguished delegate, Mrs. Borjana Krišto, to point 29. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on defence co-operation, the BiH presidency's material, number: 01,02-05-1-1025/12 of 23.08.2012 takes off the agenda. Start the vote. Thank you. In this vote of 14 delegates, there were 12 delegates, two delegates against them, no delegates were detained. From the Federation – 7 was for, against 2, there are no abstentions. From RS – 5 for, no, there are no abstentions. Since there is a general and entity majority I find that this proposal has also been adopted. Since we had no conditions to comply with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations adopt this proposed agenda as made up by the College, I now call on you to declare the full agenda, realizing that amendments have been made to the proposal of delegates Bradarić and delegate Krišto. 5 Launch the vote. Please turn off your cell phones if anyone has forgotten. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 12 delegates were on this agenda, no statements were made against and 2 delegates were abstained. From Federation – 7 was for, against no one, abstention 2. From RS – 5 for, no objection and abstention. Since there is a general and entity majority I find that we have adopted the proposed agenda. We're going to work on the agenda points. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 26th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're moving on to a statement on the 26th-session record. Thank you. There are 14 delegates present – there are 14 delegates against and there are no abstentions. From the Federation – 9, from Serbia – 5. There's a general and entity majority so I realize this record has been adopted. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Answers to Legislative Questions and New Legislative Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2418	In short, I am pleased with the answer, of course I will when, since these are extensive materials, when it all works out and in my head then one conclusion that may be in the form of a parliamentary question again, so I am satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2419	Thank you. Dear colleague Krstan Simić, please come in. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2420	Thank you. Well, I had to comment on this answer for a few reasons. First reason, I thank the Justice Department for teaching me, learning what amnesty is, did they probably believe, thinking of my age that I've already forgotten it. Secondly, I did not get a fundamental answer to the question that was very simple – does the Council of Ministers intend to propose the Amnesty Act? The only solution that exists in every country, as well as... measure, other measures that are related to both prison accommodation facilities and the rest. I got the answer – If they didn't have a proposal for such a law, they didn't have a criterion for such a law, no one suggested it. My question is – do they intend to do it? Because I believe that this belongs to the Ministry of Justice's portfolio, especially if there is an explicit provision in the law that provides for the adoption of the Law on Amnesty. I think I have no interest in making this law or not, but this is essentially one act of the state in which there is a rule of law, from the law that has passed for 10 years, and BiH has never once done the act of this amnesty that makes up all the states of the world, and even our entities have done it on two or three occasions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2421	Thank you. An esteemed colleague, Delegate Nermina Kapetanović, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2422	Dear Mr. Chairman and Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, media representatives. I asked two questions to the Council of Ministers, one to the Ministry of Human Rights, and dearly to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I must say that, that I am not satisfied with the answers I have received, it seems to me that it is absolutely pointless to have a dialogue with the Council of Ministers on the issue of a very heavy population from the RS and the Federation and some of the people from Brcko District, but speaking of the fact that it is about workers who have lost the right to work during the armed conflicts in the Republic of Croatia who have lost their right to work, except for the right to work and the right to their property and taking care of the fact that it is 13 626 citizens, and it is spoken, officially, and unofficially speaking of 60,000 citizens. Truely respecting what the Ministry of Civil Affairs has done, therefore in its efforts and in its work of fulfilling the tasks, what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done is insufficient, insufficient. Their answer is not adequate to my representative's question for a simple reason because I did not ask for a transcript of their meetings with persuasions from the Republic of Croatia, on some other issues, it is absolutely irrelevant to me what they discussed, and it is not about this population of workers from BiH. And on this occasion, I point out once again my dissatisfaction and the finding that it is absolutely pointless to discuss with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the issue of the population of bh 7 workers, because only two diplomatic notes and one informal conversation do not represent enough for this wounded population. As regards my second question to the Ministry of Human Rights – When will BiH adopt a comprehensive Law on the Rights of the Child at a state level that will fully embody the principles and provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and its Faculty Protocols? I also received a very superficial answer and I think that children in BiH really deserve a lot more than one inaccurate answer, I think they should be given an opportunity as well as their children in the world. I think that alone, the answer of about ten, fifteen sentences in which there are no deadlines, no date actually shows the relationship between the Ministry of Human Rights and the refugee regarding the rights of the child, and I am not satisfied with this answer. I am very sorry that this is how a parliamentary effort is underestimating that finally the rights of the child in BiH are equal to the rights of children of all parts of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2423	Thank you. I find that there are no further participants in this discussion in this part of this agenda. So now I'm opening the second part of this agenda and I'm asking you to contact me if you have any new delegate questions. Here you go. An esteemed colleague, Delegate Nermina Kapetanović, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2424	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would first refer a delegation initiative to this Council of Ministers. This is an initiative for the adoption and adoption of the State Strategy for the Promotion of Renewable Energy. In my explanation, I would like to say that the European Commission's 2012 Progress Report states that very little progress has been made on renewable energy in BiH. Entities have introduced incentives in terms of guaranteed tariffs for non-equal renewable energy sources and can lead to inefficientness in the country. BiH has not yet developed a state-run renewable energy activity plan to create a road map for the implementation of a binding renewable energy target in the country's final energy consumption in 2020, and within the energy community, thus ensuring that measures are taken to improve the use of biofuels in transport. The complexity of the organisation structure and decision-making system endangers the effective promotion of renewable energy, therefore significant efforts are needed to create a regulatory environment that will encourage greater use of renewable energy sources in all sectors, as well as to facilitate administrative procedures for issuing licences and licences. For this reason, I appreciate the need to adopt a state strategy to promote renewable energy, and so on the basis of this and my delegative initiative. My first parliamentary question is – What about, of course, the Council of Ministers, what about the Rural Development Strategy at BiH level and what about the Roadmap Action Plan? 8 A parliamentary question that was raised in a similar form in May last year by my distinguished colleague, Mr Hasan Bećirović, has not been enlightened, nor has he received concrete results. I would like to draw attention to the seriousness and priority of drawing up a rural development strategy at BiH level. It is clear to all that the development of the BiH Strategic Rural Development Plan is one of the major commitments in the Agriculture and Rural Development Sector, in addition to this, the Strategic Rural Development Plan of BiH is the basis for the creation of a special IPAD programme document, which is one of the basic preconditions for the establishment of the IPAD structure of BiH in a simulation of three mandatory components of the creation of the paying agency, the managing body of BiH and the IPAD of the BiH programme. Otherwise, the IPAD Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance for Rural Development is the main instrument of possible pre-accession means. The possibility of withdrawing ipard funds is possible even before obtaining candidate country status but only in the event of the full establishment of an operational structure. Every year, BiH has practically lost between 20m and 25m euros annually for the revitalisation of the Agrarian Sector. The difficult situation currently in the area of bh pornography, as well as the consequences that will be further strengthened and multiplied by Croatia's entry into the EU, obliges us to react urgently. Given that the failure of the BiH Agriculture Sector is the most affected by agricultural producers, any further destruction in the construction of the necessary bh agricultural capacity would have unspeakable consequences for them. And my next, second-delegation question, so I want to ask the Council of Ministers, to remind them that eight months ago, the BiH Constitutional Court reached a verdict concerning the issue of state property. The ruling confirmed that BiH institutions are solely responsible for the problems of regulating state property issues. When and how will the Council of Ministers approach the implementation of these judgments, which concerns the issue of state property? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2425	I thank you, too. The word continues to appear, dear colleague Mehmed Bradarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2426	I have a delegate question that's on a technical level, it's technically structured, it might be a little boring and read it and listen in particular, so I'm applying in writing and, of course, in that form, and I expect an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2427	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bradarić. Dear colleague Krunoslav Vrdoljak came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2428	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I have one question, actually two questions, one is the Council of Ministers. These days, the BiH Economic Planning Directorate has published an analysis of economic results, trends actually in the country, for 2012. In this insufficiently detailed analysis, a decline in production in 9 construction works is observed 7%, industrial production 5.6%, mining 4.6%, processing industry 5.4%, and energy sector 6.7%. The number of employees decreased by 0.6% and the unemployed increased by 2.5%. From that, the real sector, according to the analysis, had a decrease in the number of employees by 1.3%, and only it was found that in the public sector the number was increased, and the percentage was left for us to calculate because it was not published. These and other data from published trends, only warn and seriously, are not enough for a serious analysis of the situation and relations in the economy. The management or any other body has not tried to do that analysis, suggesting a lack of will to move forward with economic reforms in the country. Question of the Council of Ministers – Is the Council of Ministers intended and when to form a final expert body, with the aim of creating a platform for the launch of economic reforms, i.e. the establishment of measures of economic policy, which would prevent further collapse of the economy? And second question, I'd like to ask the Ministry of Civil Affairs, even though they're in that Ministry when I asked for some information, said they don't have much to do with it, but I don't think that's the way it should be, and I think they still have some connection. It's a state-level education system. Namely, that restraint system in our house is being monitored, controlled, etc. Two agencies and one center. It is the Agency for Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education, the Quality Insurance Agency and the Centre for Information and Recognition of Higher Education diplomas. We in the smaller environments, maybe in the larger environments, it's not like that, but it's getting funny who's doing the job with college graduates. This has controversial stories by, in means of public information, about buying diplomas, private colleges, etc. However, this tragedy has become more ridiculous. It's in smaller environments you can see, so almost half the teachers, teachers in elementary schools have 100%, because we know these people, bought diplomas. In the public sector in the institutions of the system, from the municipal administration, through the county etc. There's no one who didn't finish college, all clean shopping, that he didn't practically go and take the exams. Medical technician, and we have in Livna nurses who bought diplomas. Senior medical technician, bought a degree. I think it's already a situation that's really funny. The question, therefore, to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, but regardless of what these two agencies and the centre are, independent institutions that have little to do with the Ministry of Civil Affairs, but were formed by the Council of Ministers and I think they should still have some contact with them, therefore, the question to them. To what extent is the Ministry of Civil Affairs, to what extent is it intended to engage, together with two agencies and one centre, which are in charge of the country's education system, in solving the inflation of university diplomas acquired by purchase or in another illegal way? We have here last night fresh information about this professor Nurić who did it so nicely, ten doctoral dissertations of the maltene he did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2429	Thank you. I find there are no further entries on this agenda. And I would like, above all, the representatives of the Council of Ministers present to give a timely answer and content to the delegates' questions. 10 We move to the point of three agendas, Ad. 3. The request of delegates Borjana Krišto, Staša Košarac and Sulejman Tihić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples You have received the request of delegates Borjana Krišto, Staša Košarac and Sulejman Tihić to consider the proposal of this law. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? So now we're discussing a matter of short procedure. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We move on to a statement that the proposal is considered by a shortened procedure in accordance with Article 121. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. In this vote of 14 delegates – 12 delegates were in favour, two delegates were detained against no one. From the Federation – 7 for, against no one, abstention 2. From Serbia – 5 for, against no one, no one abstentioned. Given that there is a general and entity majority, I find that the request of delegates Borjana Krišto, Staša Košarac and Sulejman Tihić to consider the amendment and supplementation of the Law on the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption, under a shortened procedure, has been adopted. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2013 by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2436	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, we know the chronology of this Law has lasted quite long, since the first, second, third variants of the proposal, requirements etc. And during that odyssey there were improvements to the original solution that was proposed and that was really very interesting, so to speak. Of course, the representatives of international institutions reacted, we reacted 14 and we here in Parliament, and I said, what is now in the solution is more important than what was originally proposed. The intention and need to resolve external debt service is clear and in situations where Budget is not adopted. And that's quite an op... and it has to be solved, that's the necessity, and it needs to be solved as best as possible. I think in this solution to the current one, it's quite well solved. However, the Law itself still contains one solution that can cause doubt. Namely, the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements in its position, Article 1 relating to Article 11 and Article 5 of that Article 11, states that, during the duration of the provisional financing of the Council of Ministers, a special decision on expenditure not provided for in the budget of the preceding year, with the expenditures of the BiH institution involving expenditures under Article 2 of this Article cannot be higher than the collection of revenue during the period of temporary financing, which are collected from indirect taxes, their own... etc. The expenditure on this basis shall be granted in accordance with the provisions of Article 17 of this Act which prescribe the use of the current reserve. So what is problematic for me is that it opens up the possibility for the Council of Ministers to make special decisions, so its special decisions decide that some funds will be spent, which are not even foreseen in the budget for the previous year. That's one thing. I think it should be more insistent that Budget be adopted within a certain period, rather than opening up the possibility that special decisions create a situation so that Budget doesn't have to be adopted. And the second thing, calling on Article 17, and the way to make a decision on this in accordance with Article 17, is quite problematic, because Article 17. talks about the assets of the current reserve. And he doesn't talk much about how to make a decision. He simply says the Council of Ministers decides on the use of the current reserve. It speaks more about what the funds of the current reserves are used for. And among other things, from funding emergency and emergency expenses to grants to non-profit organizations. Does this invitation to Article 17 apply to the whole of Article 17, does it apply only to the decision-making process? I think that needs to be fixed in the next improvements to this law. That is also why I cannot support the principles of this Law, and I also point to the need for it to be further processed in the amendment phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2437	Thank you. There are no other applications for participation in this discussion. Accordingly, I conclude the discussion, unless the predniser has the need to make a specific comment? No, thank you. Now we move on to a statement on the bill in the first reading. Here you go. In this round of voting of 14 delegates – there were 12 delegates, there were two delegates, there were no abstentions. From the Federation – 7 for, versus 2, abstentioned no one. From Serbia – 5 for, against no one, abstained no one. Given that there is a general and entity majority, I agree with the Amendments and Supplements Act on the financing of BiH institutions was adopted in the first reading. 15 We move to point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the first reading of the bill and corresponding to Article 100. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You have received the opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. At its 42nd session, held on 14.02.2013, the House of Representatives adopted the bill in its first reading. I give my word, the chairman of the Commission, to a respected colleague, Hasan Bećirović, if he wants to? Thank you, Mr. Bećriović. I'm giving the word to the Proposer of the Law, if that's what he wants? There's no need to comment. Thank you. Now we're going to discuss this point on the agenda. Here you go. An esteemed colleague, delegate, Nermina Kapetanović, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2439	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll just comment briefly. I think it's a very good proposal for a law on the protection of new plant varieties in BiH. Just one little grudge. What is missing in this Law, and I find it extremely important, is the fact that no member regulates the launch of a certification scheme based on the principles of OSCD, and without this attitude, we do not have the possibility of exporting seeds and fruit material from our country to the EU. The other members in terms and changes and additions are quite acceptable and correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2440	Thank you, dear colleagues. No further involvement in the debate under this agenda item has been reported. Does the promoter want some kind of comment yes, yes? There's no need. Thank you. It opens, I'm sorry, we're now proposing a statement on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Here you go. Thank you. In this vote of 14 delegates – 14 delegates were in favour. From the Federation – 9, from Serbia – 5. There is also a general and entity majority, so I find, the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties in BiH was adopted in the first reading. 16 We move to point 10. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, displaced persons and returnees (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the first reading of the bill. In view of Article 100. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. At its 42nd session, held on 14.02.2013, the House of Representatives adopted the bill in its first reading. I'm giving the word to the Proposer of the Law, if that's what he wants? I give my word to the representative of the Commission, if he wishes? Thank you. They don't want either. Now I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go. There are no reports of discussion, so I'm saying I'm closing the debate, please? I really apologize to my distinguished colleague, Kapetanović. The word came from a distinguished colleague, Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2442	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say that I will ask the representatives of the resolution ministry and all my other colleagues to take my discussion very well-intentioned. I appreciate the intensities that came from the Council of Ministers, primarily the Minister of Human Rights, but I think we still need to talk a little bit about this law today. I also know that this law came from the revised strategy for the implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which then predicted only a return. And the fact is that after the intervention of delegates in the House of Peoples, the rights to remain and the right to compensation for damages are also required. This is an improved text compared to the Strategy, but I think that two years after the adoption of the Revised Strategy in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Law came into practice, but this time with the fact that the funds, the material resources needed for that purpose, are significantly reduced compared to the time when the revised return strategy was adopted. And, I think, on that side, the proposer is in a very unfavourable situation, aware of the fact that any dilemmas of the MPs can be presented today, how to achieve that return, taking care of the fact that no funds are provided. So, knowing that during the adoption of the law in question, during the debate on BiH's budget, the SDA's representatives, both in discussions and in the amendment phase, pointed to the necessary planning of the funds in the Budget of BiH, I hope you remember that. Our amendments have not been adopted, but a document of the Framework Budget has been adopted which will not be changed, unfortunately, by 2015 and in which there is no sufficient funds to return. We would do well to know what happened to the earlier conclusions of Parliament, the 17th Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which is tasked by the Council of Ministers to initiate the activities and the necessary procedures in terms of providing the necessary credit resources, for the first time 500, then 400 million KM, which are needed to realise the return process. In addition, one of the most important questions is how to implement this law from a financial aspect, how to implement it without having a set financial structure to be set up by the Resoring Ministry of Finance? It would be good if we had some information about it. There are improvements, of course, to the fact that the Fund is established, so there is a change on behalf of this Fund although there is one very, very, very, very, very, very burdensome fact, information I have read in the means of public information, and as I recall the audit report, that this information could be true, that the Fund for Returning BiH spent nearly 400 000 KM on wages and fees. I think it's a lot, given that for wages, therefore, it's been given 400,000 and the rest of 60 grand for other purposes. I think that's a lot. We have objections and representatives of the Union for the sustainable return and integration of BiH, which believe that the BiH Return Fund is not in line with the Dayton Peace Agreement, namely Aneska vi, in which they say the Fund has been since '96. The year was supposed to be an organisational unit, which would collect money for damages, a return to reconstruction, if it hadn't happened, so the Fund only partially responded to the mention of Anex. Oh, I think it's one of the burdensome data. I'm interested in the fate of the signed agreement, which, if I recall correctly, several years ago with the OPEC Fund, Mr. Vrankić signed, I think it was a pre-contract, if I remember correctly. I'm interested in the fate of this pre-contract, has he grown into an official contract and what will happen to the realisation of these funds? And I think these are some elements that burden, therefore, the proposed text. I'm not going officially, I'm not going in a row by members, and I have observations. But let's say, if we were to start with Article 2. The definition of returnees, in Article 2, should be identical to the definition given to refugees from BiH and displaced persons. And it would be good if that definition of returnees had been defined, so that it was the person who showed the competent authority the will to return to residence and who had before 30.04.'91. A year. So, in the same way, in the same way of equating, therefore, for a uniform approach to clarifying concepts and definitions for all refugees from BiH, displaced persons and returnees, to use the same date as for the other two concepts. It is an unclear term of property which, therefore, implies here in your proposal only a housing unit, and very often we know that the word is also the remaining immovable property, so let's say it would be good to improve the term – the property in the amendment phase. There is one contradiction related to Article 6 and Article 5. In Article 6, which treats the rights of refugees from BiH and displaced persons, there is one inconsistencies if it is viewed directly by Article 5 and Article 6. Because in Article 5, which treats the termination of the status as a displaced person, when it is said that the displaced person ceases his status, if he has chosen a second place of residence voluntarily. So that it cannot lay down the rights provided for in Article 6 of this Act. It is, therefore, a contradiction. The same applies to Article 9. I don't think he can stand like this and that he needs to be erased with an explanation that.../no video/... 18
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2443	I really apologize to you, dear colleague. From some technical problem that I haven't affected, at this point your microphone isn't active. Here, we've restored the activity, you can proceed.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2444	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I think in the amendment phase this text can be significantly improved. I think it would be good for Article 19 to point out and possibly add, that the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Director of the Refugees and Displaced Persons of BiH and the President of the Commission should not be from the same constituent people and that this can be predicted, therefore at the amendment stage, because this would then be in line with Article 9. Aneska vi of the dejtonski mirovni sporazum. There are a few other objections. I think it should certainly be in the new text that there is a claim or a new position, which will enable and say that the refugee status of the displaced person ceases under the same conditions on the whole territory of BiH, that is, on the basis of harmonised provisions of entity laws and the Brcko District law. That's not exactly what the law says right now. Well, in order not to be inconclusive in the realisation of the law, I think that should be said anyway, because if one entity were to determine different conditions for the termination of the status of these categories compared to the other entity and the Brcko District, then there would be inequality. And I know that a representative of the Resort Ministry, an esteemed minister, has the aim and purpose, as he has repeatedly pointed out in the means of information, to make a fair law that will create equal status and the position of all persons who are subject, therefore, to this Law. I think it would still be very important to say a few things. In order to ensure that the mandate of the Commission treated by this Act is identical by the time limit with the mandate of the Council of Ministers, in order to facilitate the communication of representatives of the RES and the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, with the mandate of the Commission. Then, I do not like the assumption and possibility foreseen, therefore in the first reading, that the members who are in the Commission, therefore also based on the functions performed by the respected Ministers of Entity Ministries of Brčno Distrik and the State-level Resord Ministry, will be entitled to material compensation. I believe that it is not okay for a simple reason because the ministers who function as members of the commission are therefore not directly elected in a particular way, so they are doing the activities that are within their regular activities. And it would be logical if they didn't have a fee for a job they'd already been paid for. In Article 26. The law, paragraph 3, provides that supervision of the financial operations of the Fund will be carried out by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury and the Office of the Financial Auditor-General of the BiH institution. I'm asking, does this supervisory commitment fit the laws of the intended and established obligations of the finance ministries and the Auditor's Chief Office? Article 14 defining general conditions for the identification of users states in point 1.f) that the user or member of his current household do not have a second residential 19 unit on BiH territory, which meets the prescribed standards. There is a question of the need to specify standards, for those who may not know what standards they are. Secondly, the important question is, inconsistencies and inconsistencies, when leaving out or not predicting what applies, what, so they have also applied to those citizens of BiH living in the countries of the region, because in the previous text, the legislator did not provide for the obligation to prove the existence of any housing unit in the region, where they currently live. So you should put them in an equal position. If the proposer's intention is to ensure equality, without any discrimination, I am quite confident, and I am quite confident of the good intentions of the promoter, then in that Article 14 in the amendment phase, significant corrections should be made. I'll go back to finance. Therefore, a loan approved by the Council of Europe Development Bank, with a view to closing up collective centres with 2,900 families, with about 7.5 000 members, would have to speed up the activities in terms of this loan so that these credit funds, for these purposes, become operational and begin to finally close these collective centres. There's another question. Through the regional housing programme and last year's Donor Conference, which was held in Sarajevo, which I attended, as someone in a very small number of representatives present that day, BiH was to be added 80m euros. If it is true that 5 million funds... are operational at this time, and 200 million KM are still waiting for realization, at different stages of realization are at this time, an assessment that is often expressed in media means, that it takes 1.3 billion to rebuild housing, then I am expressing concern and suspicion that the return process could be completed in 3-4 years, as announced by the resolution ministry, and yet I am saying again I know that it is about good intentions. So there are some dilemmas that are related to this Law and I think it would certainly be necessary in the amendment phase to fix it, of course, by appreciating the good intentions of the promoters and all of us who are in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, to finally return to BiH to the satisfaction of all BiH citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2445	Thank you, dear colleagues. So, I owe you an explanation. During your discussion, there has been a technical interruption resulting from the technical service's efforts to adapt the agenda for point 20. I apologize to you, and I comment on the technical service, these things shouldn't happen because they can affect the record itself. Every evil for any good again. You used twice the time thanks to that technical error, so I hope you're not extremely unhappy.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2446	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2447	We're moving on to discussions. A dear colleague, Stjepan Krešić, came to the floor. Here you go, colleague Krešić. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2448	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I welcome the effort made by the Council of Ministers to offer the law. The fact that this country has come out of war and that such laws are required in order for these war injustices and disasters to be tempered, and this law obviously has that intention. My discussion will be brief because most of it was taken from me by my colleague, Kapetanović. I'll comment on Article 2. Law, under d) Property. The property is a housing unit over which the BiH refugee, displaced person or returnee had property or tenancy rights, which were deprived during the conflict starting on 30 April 1991. I'd like to comment here that the normal law will be corrected in amendment. What does it mean to be deprived during the conflict on 30.04.1991? It is thought that a person who, under quotes, has been evicted from his place of residence from a war conflict, is being forced away. There's one category that's even more tragic than being chased from his home hearth, which means he's also killed, deprived of life. In this law too, it is also important to take care of such ones because it happened here in Sarajevo, several families who, complete families, were killed during this unfortunate war. So I propose to the Council of Ministers and the competent ministry, so if it's about the property that the heirs of such families have the right to return property, and I see it's in property and property and housing law. So I'm talking about a concrete example of where the owner of the apartment and his family were murdered. So that those who are heirs may have the right to return to the apartment can be incorporated into the Law. This law is essentially a good, normal amendment needs to be fixed and something like what my colleague used to say. So once again, I welcome the Council of Ministers' and Resolute Ministry's efforts to ease the disastrous consequences of this war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2449	I thank my colleague Krešić. A distinguished fellow delegate, Krstan Simić, appeared in the word. Here you go, Mr. Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2450	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I welcome the idea that this bill is on the agenda of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, taking into account both the provisions of the Dayton Agreement and Annex VII on return. However, my esteemed colleagues have made some suggestions here, where there is plenty of room to improve this Law, in the amendment phase on the one hand, and on the other hand to remove certain ambiguities. In that direction, I too will be very pragmatic and ask certain questions that might arise as a problem when it comes, and I hope it will, until this law is implemented. I will počeću with article 1 – expelled and those who have left so as not to be expelled. There's a problem in the commission's work, is it going to be that someone proves whether he's been expelled, is it, I think that all the people who are because of the tragic events in BiH in this period, have had to leave, someone has chosen to leave, has he been expelled? I shall navešću an example for one of my best friends of the Bošnjak, when he goes sad, and I say, "Do you have to go, and he says, "I must do it for what?" He says -- so he wouldn't come into 21st position if I shot at you, you shot at me and he left. What I'm saying is that this is one broad term and maybe here in this direction one universal face, a universal provision that would come from that, all the faces that had to leave their property because of the war events. It wouldn't create a problem, it wouldn't create connotations. Mr. Krešić raised a question that I was going to run, and Mrs. Nermina just gave me, when we say there shouldn't be discrimination. We need to start with facts and questions about housing rights. The European court in Strasbourg said that housing law is a specific vision and that it represents property. True, property that had a special regime of transfer of household rights, inheritance of housing rights, but essentially it's property. We all know that a large number of citizens, again due to the results of tragic conflicts, have not filed a claim to uphold their tenant rights. We have court decisions in Strasbourg regarding military housing. I must say that there is one specificity there, and that specificity that in the Federation of BiH the law excludes that right. But those who have not submitted, I am also talking about members of all nationalities, of all citizens, who have not submitted to a certain deadline, have lost the right to compensation for the return of the apartment. Maybe you could think about having those faces too have the right to satisfaction. The result that they failed to bear again was the result of war events, frustrations, fears, grants, etc. I also know the position that these apartments are assigned, that there are fewer legitimate tenants in these apartments who even bought these apartments. You can't move them now. But I'm thinking, would there be room here for those who have filed a claim, who have failed and have therefore lost their right to property, can that be returned to them? I also have to remind myself, at least from the point of view of the RS, that we had the Law on Refugees and Displaced Persons and that at that moment there was a return that was made under the strong control of the international community and that then the main mediator for these affairs was, everyone who remembered here a little longer, Mr. Donal Hejs. At one point in RS and parliament adopted most of all votes, the property was returned to 99%. People's MPs from the Bosniak people voted for it, but they put the reserve that the team had not been returned, because they called for the right to return not only to return property, that it was the right to return to a sustainable return that people could come, that people could work and that people could exercise some other rights, without which property, without which property if you return, you have the status of known property "naked property" that serves you nothing if you don't do anything, you can't maintain the house, you're not here. In that direction, we should see little that we do not come into conflict with regulations that were in force around both these reports and all that has been done. And in the end, he would ask a question that in practice, I think it's foreseen in Article 16 when we talk about an asset that can't be returned, that people have the right to cash compensation. You all know that in our regulations, both entities and one and the other and the Brcko District, for example. When it comes to expropriation, you get a term – market value. When the country returns, the market value... that we haven't determined. If we were to approve the market value, I'm afraid we'd block this process because we'd be facing the demands of millions of values of houses, I don't know either, you've seen how it's going, but on one side. On the other hand, they would again be brought into an even (?) the position of those who have been given packages to patch it up and patch it up. I'm afraid this unspeakable condition does not create a problem in the work and implementation of this law. 22 And finally, the second time at the end of the apology, I missed, so I remembered later, you have certain cases and I know that there are property damage disputes on both of them, on the territory of both entities where the property was destroyed after the signing of the Dayton Agreement. These people are in charge of damage, they're looking for art, they're opening up this story where they're putting a burden on both political communities and entities. You have seen the final decision of the Court of Justice in Croatia where the former lawyer, the judge, has been charged with damages to a cafe that suffered as a result, in a certain way, a terrorist act. This is where everything that's been broken after the Dayton Agreement is signed can be subdued. Would there be an opportunity for us to consider and include these people in this process, or to leave these disputes open, because again, that property cannot be returned because it is damaged, destroyed after which it covers this law. I think it would be both a service to both entities and those citizens, and ultimately a desire for all citizens to get at least some of that satisfaction if they could make up for that damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2451	Thank you, too, fellow Simić. Dear colleague Mr Dragutin Rodić came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2452	Honorable presidency, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Since we've heard a few debaters and I think it's a good idea to talk about this law today, because I have the impression that we haven't said anything that we'd be denied for one of the possibly saddest stories in BiH that lasts for many years and which, here, seems to me after a long time they'll experience their epilogue as well. What I want to say at the very beginning of this discussion is that there were certain frameworks when a law like this was proposed and that it was a revised strategy and that it gave certain directions to which this Law itself would go. If we are watching, and I have nothing to add to the predecessors of fellow delegates who spoke and who spoke of details aimed at improving this Law, but I also want to say that I have seen this Law as a framework of behavior in BiH, and not many other issues concerning this issue, are regulated by entity laws and which, when it comes to this area, are much more detailed in regulation and rights. What's positive for me is that, here's the law, maybe for the first time we have equal all three rights in BiH, and of course that's the issue that deserves special attention for me. It is clear that the problem is both social and legal and economic and financial and that it is not like that all these years are likely that we would speak differently today and to resolve this issue, unfortunately it is still present. In the preparation of this Act, as far as I am aware, and the ministry has carried out a whole series of consultations with various associations, so I will read to you just one detail that I think is key and that, as we are in the basic legislative process, there will eventually be solutions, but the fact is that all legal and other solutions should be looked at in a broader context and through the interests of many interested actors, because very often very different demands are made by BiH institutions and the RS and the Federation of BiH, as well as international communities, state and entity and legislative and executive authorities. The non-governmental sector is also divided, there are no unique and coherent views, but 23 are very different and it is difficult to achieve even a minimum of consensus among all interested. That is why I think it is good that we have entered this procedure, which is why this legal framework, i.e., has set certain directions in which we can move and I think that after this debate today and what we have heard, and believe when you apply this law and when you come from local communities where it is terribly expressed and where the fates of these people are being solved and when you look at the financial aspect and what we have in the budgets and BiH and entities and local communities, then it is really necessary to find a solution that will go towards resolving this issue. You can observe it, so we can say that observation is double. On the one hand, you have a normative and regulation of certain issues that would satisfy the largest number of citizens and populations coming out of this and you have another part of the financial that should be dealt with naturally in the next period. That's why I think we're going the right way, I think we can through the final bill, have here and react. Of course, as politicians and as responsible people, it is difficult to make certain decisions, which solve a large number of RS citizens, but I guess that's why we're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2453	I thank my colleague Rodić. A distinguished colleague, delegate Martin Raguž, came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2454	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome all present, resolute Minister and Minister of the Council of Ministers. I answered the word for two reasons. So the first is because I participated in the adoption of this first law in 1998, was the first minister at BiH level and the establishment of this ministry. I've been dealing with these issues for over 10 years during the war and after the war, and I can say very briefly, this is a very good bill and we needed this bill. And in that sense, my support, the support of the club of this law. However, in order to understand what needs to be done to implement this law, I must say the following. From that year 2000 to this year 2013, we missed a lot of time, we didn't have enough dynamics, organization and management to implement the strategy and previously passed legislation. That's what we're saying responsibly. This Law and its adoption should be used to remove these mistakes and failures and to have one serious and responsible rhythm from the Council of Ministers, Resorship Ministry, these institutions and bodies defined in this Act for its implementation until co-ordination with the entity and county ministries. That's the first thing. The second thing, these doubts about the definition of assets, the status of displaced, we need to fix it in this second phase, but it does not reduce this quality of the law and it is one important issue because this will remove different interpretations and possibilities, which is very important. 24 And the third thing and I will end with it, so here are the projections of the financial resources, as explained in the explanation, essentially the completion of the return process envisions a budget of 1,300,000 KM. Of which 900,000 for the problem of resolving the reconstruction of the housing fund, and about 400,000 KM for the accompanying infrastructure. I would like to say this, in the last 3-4 years, in both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, we had conclusions that were adopted more or less almost by consensus, on the additional engagement of funds, first 400 and 500 million, so we owed to the Council of Ministers. We need to see and I suggest that this be one of the conclusions, how much of it is realised and how these funds will be realised from 1,300,000 marks for the essential completion of the return process, because in the explanation that these funds are thought to come to an end, we now have an insight into how much is allocated from the budget at BiH and both entities, Brcko District, how secure it is from the Council of Europe Development Bank, how much of the Donorial Conference held in Sarajevo, this is about 101m euros, and you will see that there remains one huge unfulfilled space for how these funds will be financially realised. So, I think when adopting the laws of the people of the competent ministry and the Council of Ministers, they have to give a clear projection of how the funds for the implementation of this law will be raised. It is now objectively lacking in this law. So, another thing, I think there are more political doubts about when the return process is over in BiH? I think as long as there is one citizen of BiH as long as he wants to return now or for centuries and centuries that he will have the right to return and that is how this law should be defined and understood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2455	Thank you, dear colleague. Mr. Mehmed Bradarić came forward for his word. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2456	Here I listen to my predecessors, it's always better when justice makes laws than when power does, because justice is always more just than governments are, than the authorities. But in this case, I don't really think so. If these people were to have the unfortunate people waiting for their house to be rescinded, to be paid justly for what they had, they would have seemed to have to live for 100 or 200 years to get their right. Just the fact that people can choose a place to live, whether it's prewar or this, doesn't really mean that, as some say, it's about ethnic cleansing. This isn't really about ethnic cleansing, it's about the choice of those faces. I know both Bošnjak and Srbin and Hrvat who want their question solved that way, we have to respect the fact there and this is for the first time. And of course it's not in a situation where we have hundreds of thousands of households than when we have much less households. It's just going to be a question, and we can do it in this amendment phase, how to regulate the matter of compensation and what proportion, if we're going to define ourselves for, after all, that donor conference, that's why it was, whether we're going to choose to think of such persons first, those persons, and to ignore those who still intend to build their houses where they used to live before the war. So it can also be regulated in the amendment phase, but in any case this law 25 is much better than some previous versions that even said that you can have 6 months, then you lose the status of returnees and then there are many other problems, etc. So, this is a good law to support, but here in the amendment phase we'll have the opportunity to iron it, dress it up, and be at the general pleasure of all these people who are interested in getting rid of their question as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2457	Thank you, Mr. Bradarić. It is clear attention to this Law from the very fact that only one man was born in the RS and it is Mr. Tihić, so we have all passed believe in his skin, more or less. Dear Minister Damir Ljubić came to the floor. However, before he took his word, I would like to ask for an clarification from a distinguished colleague, Martin Raguž, who points out the possibility of proposing a conclusion in a particular text, as he said during the discussion. So my question is: Do you have that conclusion saved, do you want to repeat it orally on this record, and then to make it clear, or was it a rhetorical issue in the sense that the conclusion politically from this debate should come to all of us in some direction? Here you go. You just have to sign up for a discussion so you can give a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2458	Thank you. I expect, therefore, that the minister will now give some kind of answer to this. I basically thought it would take a much more precise projection to provide financial resources for the realisation of this law than it is in this law. If we get an explanation from the Registrar in the way it will be secured, there is no need to adopt an additional conclusion. If not, I think that conclusion has the basis to be accepted by the House in a way that we can get a precise picture of how these funds are meant to be provided?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2459	Thank you, dear colleague. Then I ask you to use your time rationally to follow the discussion of the Honored Minister and to assess for yourself whether you want an additional conclusion. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2460	Thank you very much. Dear Presidency, honourable MPs and representatives of this distinguished House, thank you very much for the opportunity to address and thank you for your well-intentioned useful discussions and I want to conclude 26, as I did at the House of Representatives, that the ambience around this topic and about the adoption of this law is truly favourable and much more favourable than it was before. Before I look specifically at the discussions, I just want to say a few sentences about the fundamental intention of this law proposed by this ministry. This is a framework law that respects and regulates this area, respects the shared jurisdiction as defined in BiH, so we took care of the division of jurisdiction. Also, one of the respected MPs said, and we did have a broad public debate from the municipalities, so the county, entity, international organisations, the NGO, with the aim of getting one quality law, and we really tried as hard as we could, install their suggestions and comments on the basic draft that we had sent to the public debate. Our wish was, as you pointed out, to ensure all the rights defined by Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement and also the rights defined by the revised strategy also adopted by this Parliament. We tried and tried to specify the responsibilities of the relevant bodies defined by this law, such as the Refugees Commission, the Fund, only the competent human rights and refugees ministry. We have also defined the types of related assistance to users, tried and hopefully managed well to specify the procedures for determining users. Also, the way the project is prepared, another kind of project approach, which is a lot to talk about when we talk about sustainability and one more active role in providing funds and calling for solidarity, as we have provided for by this law at all levels of 2%. We'll see what kind of response will be there, but here's our wish to animate all levels and competent levels of government and simply take advantage of this favourable moment and try this issue slowly, as slowly as possible, bring the end. Also speeding up and defining procedures, when we talk about implementation of funds, where there have been a lot of delays in the past period, not only in this area, but also in other areas. And what one of the MPs asked, I think, dear representative Martin Raguž, until the second reading or final adoption of this law, we have already referred to the Council of Ministers the Information with the Action Plan where one projection of funds has been defined. So perhaps the next time we talk about this Law, there will be an opportunity for these two materials to be united where they are likely to be complemented in one quality way and where we will give certain answers when it comes to projections and donations of the realisation of these intended funds. As far as the financial resources themselves are concerned, it is known that, when this Parliament adopted the revised strategy, it concluded that it was provided through credit funds, namely to secure 400 million KM to address the pro-refusing and refugee issue. In the past two years, 2010 and 2011, and 2012 respectively, close to 200 million KM has been secured somewhere, mostly from budget funds. What is now, more or more operationally or in the course of this year, will end, and these are the next funds, again of 15 million KM, credit funds, funds of the Saudi Fund $18 million. Both assets are operational and will come to a decision before the Refugees Commission. The funds for closing 40m-euro collective centres, the Governing Board of the Council of Europe Development Bank, has made a positive decision, i.e. approved by this loan in the first month, now goes to the necessary procedures in terms of the operationality of these funds. As for the Donor Conference or the Regional Housing Programme, the event was here in Sarajevo last year, where BiH from donor funds should belong to approximately 85 27 million KM with a share of 15 million marks from domestic institutions, or domestic authorities. Somewhere around half of these funds are secured when we talk about the total budget of the 500m-euro Regional Housing Programme. The biggest donors are the European Commission, the US government, the government of Germany and the government of Italy. At this point, it is operational for the entire regional housing programme up to 100 million KM, with certain countries, such as Germany, the good part and the US government, focusing their donations on BiH. What we are working on most now as a ministry, which is that these funds, respecting the complex mechanism of decision-making of the international community, respecting the procedures required by the European Commission, are making the most of the efforts to make these resources as operational as possible. So far, we have, to be perfectly honest, a half-successary success since these procedures for us are quite slow, that we are mostly almost fully fulfilled what is being asked of us as a restoring ministry, but you, too, and we feel the need, in time to get the necessary information about what is with these funds and I hope that by summer we will use some of these funds, or that they will be operational. So, what we've been reading except for the Regional Housing Programme, including the Regional Housing Programme, is somewhere we're dealing with with an amount of 220 million KM that are currently in different stages of operation. And of course this information that I was talking about with a detailed action plan will give and projection for the next period and, of course, we can't be completely accurate, since we still don't have the exact information that the exiles, or displaced persons or refugees will decide on. And of course it will be living matter that we, from time to time, will regularly supplement, update and inform the Council of Ministers and both Houses of BiH. Finally, I want to thank you once again by respecting all your discussions, we will consider them in detail. And I want to establish and invite you all together to take advantage of this good atmosphere, a good moment which is a good part, here is your discussion and the last Donor's Conference and still good will and good wishes of international institutions and donors, to engage and give some resources, to take advantage of this moment and to all together, here we are doing our best, of course, of the most competent resolution ministry, to do everything in the coming period to shorten the search for a solution for exiles and refugees and that this is our common obligation. And that's really one of the questions where it's done a lot, but here I'm saying once again, let's take advantage of this good atmosphere and do our best to get this question done as soon as possible, how much can it be solved for the benefit of all those who expect it from us. Thank you very much and cheers.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2461	I would like to thank the Honorable Ministers. Thank you to the other participants in the debate and other delegates, I find that the debate is closed, and we will now move to a statement on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 12 delegates voted in favour, no delegate was against it, and one delegate was restrained. From Federation – 7 was for, against no one and abstention 1 vote. From RS – 5 for. 28 Since there is a general and entity majority I find – the proposal for a law on refugees from BiH, displaced persons and returnees was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point 11. Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly This is the first reading of the bill per article 100. The Rules of Procedure, and first, a debate on the necessity and adoption of the principles on which the bill is based. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission at the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which has accepted the principles of the bill's proposal and proposed the following conclusions. Conclusion – Before considering the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of Criminal Law, excuse me, yes, before considering, I repeat the text of the conclusion. Prior to considering the draft law on amendments and additions to the BiH Criminal Law in the second reading, it is necessary to obtain the opinion of the BiH Council of Ministers or working group to monitor the application of Criminal Law. Closed quote. At the 42nd session held on 14.02.2013, the House of Representatives adopted the bill in its first reading. I give my word to the chairman, Mr. Krstan Simić. He doesn't want to. Thank you. I give the word to the legislator. Who is appointed by the Commission? Mrs. Kapetanović doesn't want a word. Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this law. Here you go. Dear colleague Nermina Kapetanović came to the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2463	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the fact that today the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH is on the agenda, which treats a very important problem of trafficking in people who are more and more concerned with BiH in recent years. So, I want to give this place unreserved support to the initiative. And I want to say that the work of the task force on the fight against trafficking in human beings, which has made the proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code, to get criminal legislation in this area, in mutual harmony and to comply with international standards, in particular the UN Protocol on the Prevention and Penalty of Human Trade, then the Council of Europe Convention against Human Trade, as well as the EU Directive on the fight against the trafficking of human beings and the protection of victims, now I think that 29 should, in addition to all of this, direct its activities into the state law of child pornography. That's what's missing. Although BiH has recognised this problem since 2008 and since then has been taking action to prevent and improve legal norms and strengthen the capacity of its institutions, the problem of child pornography and actions related to this criminal operation, there is a fact that the definitions of such acts and penalties for their perpetrators are not in line within BiH, nor are they in line with international conventions that regulate this area. These serious crimes are in the jurisdiction of the entity and the Brcko District, because they are not included, and are not included in the state law. Children’s pornography and other forms of sexual exploitation of children are present throughout the region, and according to global statistics, every fourth girl and every sixth boy experience some form of sexual abuse. Children's pornography and BiH must fight in all fields, both through prevention, education, combating and harmonising criminal provisions with international legal norms, so also through a policy of tightening criminal policy for crimes committed against children. I think it is necessary for the Council of Ministers to implement and complete the laws as soon as possible, I think that the activities are already under way, the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Persons who are the subject of human trafficking and within that law, and it has to do with today's discussion on criminal law, is necessary to improve the process of identifying victims of trafficking for BiH's foreign and citizens, which is not the case at present, that it is done in the way that it is necessary. It is necessary to provide timely and adequate assistance to victims and witnesses of victims and human trafficking. It is necessary to ensure adequate rehabilitation and reintegration of human trafficking victims, which is not the case at this time in BiH. For me, it is particularly important that, with the need to increase the number of convictions and tightening of criminal policy, it is very important to make more effective measures to confiscate the property that has been acquired, so to commit crimes in relation to human trafficking, so the confiscation of property to the perpetrators. It is necessary to make a more efficient system of compensation for victims of human trafficking, therefore this is not currently the case in BiH, in an adequate manner. It is very important to improve the implementation of the Witness Protection Act. BiH has not done so in the way it is needed and I believe in the capacity of the Justice Ministry and I am quite sure that they will do so, as they do the Ministry of Security. It is necessary to amend the implementing regulation concerning the protection of personal data of trafficking victims in terms of... protection of their privacy, especially for children, but also for adults victims of human trafficking. It is very important for BiH to develop a system of providing free medical services and protecting victims of human trafficking, both foreign and BiH citizens, because we all know that services are currently provided thanks to foreign donors and their resources. It is very important to improve and improve cross-border reference mechanisms for solving and individual cross-border trafficking. And knowing that BiH is involved in implementing a trans-national reference mechanism, it is necessary to create institutional frameworks for co-operation including all government and non-governmental actors with the aim of ensuring comprehensive and effective assistance and protection of victims of human trafficking. I thank and suggest, of course, that today this bill be adopted. Thank you. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2464	Thank you. There are no applications for participation in the discussion, so we move on to a plea. First of all, I put it to the vote of the bill in the first reading. Here you go. 13 delegates participated in the vote. Do you advertise Mr. Raguž, it's not...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2465	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2466	Okay. 13 delegates participated in the vote – for 12 delegates, there was no one against and there was 1 abstention delegate. From the Federation – 7 for, against no one, abstention 1. From the RS – 5 for, against no one, restrained no one. Given that there is a general and entity majority I find – the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of BiH was adopted in the first reading. We are now moving on to a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of our Constitutional Commission. Here you go. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, there were 13 delegates. From the Federation – 8, from Serbia – 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the proposal for the Constitutional Commission's conclusion, related to the draft law on amendments and additions to the BiH Criminal Law, has been adopted. Moving to point 12. Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Representative House of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly This is the first reading of the bill, and in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, firstly, is the debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the Predvog Law is based. You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. I give the word to the chairman of the Commission, Dr Dragan Čović, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2468	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2469	No, thank you. 31 I give the Word to the Proposer of the Law if He wills, is anyone nominated here? Yes, you do. Dear Member of the House of Representatives on behalf of the House of Representatives, Mrs Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2470	...the chairman. If you allow, as the amendments and additions to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions come directly from the next item of the agenda relating to the amendments and additions to the Labour Act in BiH institutions, I ask your approval to briefly address both points of the agenda and give our clarification.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2471	In order to be rational, you have this agreement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2472	Thank you very much. The aim of the amendments and additions, which, ladies and gentlemen, delegates and delegates, guests, is proposed by the House of Representatives, and previously was the Commission's proposal for gender equality of the BiH House of Representatives, to comply with the laws on gender equality in BiH and the relevant international documents in the field of gender equality and to allow access to the law for all BiH employees in a way that the laws regulate the right to parental absence for both the mother and the father of the child. The laws were adopted at the House of Representatives at the 39th session of 18.12.2012. The Law on Labour in BiH institutions introduces an institute of parental leave that allows parents to agree that leave or part of maternity leave after the expiry of 60 unsustainable days from the birth day of the child, instead of the mother, the father of the child can move on. In this way, labour legislation is harmonised in BiH because it is the same way that this is regulated by the Law on the Labour of the Republic of Slovenia, and it is in the process of introducing parental leave and in the Law on the Work of the Federation of BiH, and it is equating access to this right to all employees in BiH regardless of what law they exercise labour rights. And regarding item 12, following the above changes to the BiH Labour Act, it is necessary in the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions to provide for the right to remuneration during the use of parental leave, as proposed by the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2473	Thank you, dear colleagues. I see __________(?) 32 [[no microphone turned on]] Please. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2478	Well, I think it's a good thing this analysis came up because it actually shows that the biggest part of it is that this House has concluded, it wasn't important to anyone. And if most of what Dom suggested hadn't been even applied, and I'm afraid this paper would never have come up. So I think it's good to see it, but I don't expect that after this debate, there will be any significant acceleration in the realization of conclusions, and I think that one number of conclusions will remain unfulfilled. I suppose that and the conclusion I suggested, that we finally make and talk, we'll get an analysis of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges. It is evident that no one in this country can open it. It is evident that international institutions do not want to talk about it. And it is evident that the final results of all of this were very bad because there are judges and prosecutors who have been paid very well, particularly prosecutors whose case has not been passed, and in this country obviously no one has the strength, nor the power, nor the courage to speak on the subject. And that's why the right to tell you, I don't see any more meaning, except... in the form of a joke to try to update that subject again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2479	I thank Mr Ivanic. There are no further applications for participation in this discussion. So we move on to a statement of information by stating whether the House of Nations is receiving this information to knowledge or not. Here you go. Thank you. Of the 11 delegates present, 11 delegates voted in favour. From the Federation – 6, from – Serbian 5. There is a general and entityal majority, so I realize that the information on today's conclusions of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the degree of their realization adopted into knowledge. Now we'll move on to a statement of conclusions. And before that, I would like to ask – does any delegate feel that any of these conclusions should be singled out and especially that we are making a statement about it or that we can approach a united statement on all these conclusions? Niko one's answering for a word. I believe we can approach a united plea, so I urge you to initiate a plea procedure. Thank you. Of the 11 delegates present, there were 11 delegates, against no one, abstentioned. From the Federation – 6, from Serbia – 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the conclusions of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the House of Peoples, the Commission on Finance and the budget of the House of People and the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples have been adopted. 36 Moving to point 15. Ad. 15. Information on draft nomotechnical rules for the making of laws and other regulations in BiH institutions, material of the BiH Council of Ministers You have been given the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples, the Commission has taken note of the Information on the draft nomotechnical rules for the making of laws and other rules in the institutions of BiH and proposes to the House to take the uninformed Information to the knowledge, and to draw conclusions on the establishment of the legal basis and the need for the adoption of nomotechnical rules for the making of laws and other regulations in BiH institutions. At the 41st session held on 31.01.2013, the House of Representatives did not receive information. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Mr Simić, does he want to?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2481	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2482	He doesn't want to, thank you. Now I give the word to the motionary, if he is present and if he wants a word. He doesn't want to, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? No Niko's applying for a discussion. Thank you. We're moving on to a statement on this information. Thank you. Out of the 10 delegates present - 5 delegates were in favour, against 5 delegates. There were four delegates from the Federation – against two delegates, there were no abstentions. From RS – 1 delegate was for, 3 delegates were against. Given that there is no general, no entity, therefore, most of it, I find that this information has not been received and therefore all collateral acts related to this item of the agenda are not in the follow-up procedure. Moving to point 16. Ad. 16. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure (proposed by the Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly) At the 17th session of 22.01.2013, the joint college of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly members discussed a letter from the secretary of the Joint Service asking the 37th Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to call a public competition and conduct a procedure for selecting new members of the Independent Committee on Independent Authorities of the Police Structures of BiH and the Committee on Appeals of Citizens for the work of police officers in police bodies for the end of the term of office. On this issue, the joint college of both BiH Parliamentary Assemblys identified a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of BiH police structures, and directed it to homes for consideration and adoption. At the 41st session of 31.01.2013, the House of Representatives adopted conclusions and named Božo Ljubić, Denis Bećirović and Milorad Živković as members of the College in this Commission. I'm opening a discussion on this agenda point, which should also include proposals agreed on at clubs related to candidates for election in this body. Alphabetically, in some other order, we can go left to right this time, Mr. Genjac, go ahead. Please report the discussion, reminds me the secretary that there are already names in the material, but of course you are a legitimate representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2484	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2485	No, no, you're a legitimate representative, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2486	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2487	Mrs. Krišto, the esteemed club chief. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2488	In front of the Croatian People's Club, we propose a member of the College, in person of the vice chairman, Dr Dragan Čović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2489	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. Mr. Košarac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2490	The Serbian people's delegates' club proposes Mr. Ognjen Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2491	Thank you, Mr. Košarac. My dear colleague Halid Genjac, come in. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2492	So, for the second time, I support, as it is written here, in front of the Bosniak Club Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2493	Sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2494	Tihić, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2495	I didn't hear, I'm sorry. Thank you. So, the discussion is still going on. I realize there are no reports and I'm closing the hearing. So we're voting on the proposal for a conclusion, including the names proposed by the club heads. Run the plea. Thank you. Of the 11 delegates present, 11 delegates were held against no one. From Federation – 7, from Serbia – 4. There is a general and entity majority, so I conclude that we have reached a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of the BiH police structure, and named Sulejman Tihić, Ognjen Tadić and Dragan Čović as members of the House of People. Moving to point 17. Ad. 17. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (proposed by the Joint College of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH) At the 17th session, held on 22.01.2013, the joint college of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives held on 22.01.2013 discussed the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the conclusion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of 17.09.2012 on the need to establish a joint commission to complete its work on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedures. The joint college of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Houses, in line with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the conclusion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, established a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the development of the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. At the 41st session of 31.01.2013, the House of Representatives adopted the conclusion and named Drago Kalabić in the Commission, 39 Saša Magazinović, Ismet Dervoz, Mat Franjičević, Nermin Purić and Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. My dear colleague, Borjana Krišto, came forward. Here you go, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2497	Thank you very much. Here I would like to say to the Club of Croatian Envoys in the House of Peoples that we support the conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the Houses of Parliament to draft amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure to both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. What I would like to propose here, since it is the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of both home and home, and that they are both both legally and technically, and also of a political nature, I believe that this House, or House of People, should be equal to the House of Representatives and thus come to a larger and political and any other consensus when it comes to the Rules of Procedures of both homes. We need this because many things apply to working together, etc. and, of course, on individual provisions that regulate the work of each home individually, so in this context, I suggest that we have six envoys from the House of Peoples and in this sense in front of the Club of Croatian Envoys I propose Mr. Martin Raguž and another person, in my name, Borjana Krišto. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2498	I thank my esteemed colleague, Krišto. The discussion is still open, we must say, by a distinguished colleague, Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2499	Thank you. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure are otherwise very, very demanding activity and since it is a significant act, it is good that within a group or commission that does so as many political parties as possible from both homes are represented. And in principle, I believe that it is an act which is the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, which is equally important and equally significant. In the good part, they have common provisions, I join and support this proposal that both the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives should be represented equally in that group, individually and in full by the Commission. And I think it would be a good idea if the House of Peoples had six representatives, just for those reasons, and maybe we should say first whether we accept this proposal to be from the House of Peoples 6 members, and then propose depending on how we plead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2500	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Genjac. 40 For the word, I must inform you, therefore, if it is necessary at this time to do so, so by our decision today that the number of members would be increased from 3 to 6 we do not threaten at all the decision taken in the House of Representatives. So the question is our will, is it? It is, so once we hear the proposals we will approach the vote and we are procedurally fully under way with the whole process. Mr. Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2501	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2502	I apologize to you indeed, today this monitor, now you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2503	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, by respecting the facts we have heard from Mrs. Krišto, of course, Mr. Genjac's support regarding the number of members of the Commission and for us it is acceptable for each of the national clubs to propose two members to have a total of 6 members of this Interim Joint Commission both at home to amend and supplement the statutes (?). Thank you, and, of course, in that case, if I may suggest, I propose on behalf of Mr Dragutin Rodić and Mr Krstan Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2504	Thank you, Mr. Košarac. Mr. Genjac, so names.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2505	Bećirović. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2506	I'm sorry, you're proposing three representatives now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2507	Some of them I quote,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2508	And it's not Bradarić, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2509	No, no, I was just quoting him.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2510	Okay. There's no tongue going to Bećirović, so that's good. I'm looking for a word in the name of the promoter. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2511	Let's go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2512	Now it's okay, thank you. So, for purely procedural reasons that I see they could have introduced a certain confusion here, I declare on behalf of the promoter, since Mr Čović and I as members of the Joint College can say this, as well as any other promoter when it comes to, say, a joint commission, that we accept this suggestion and that there is a possibility today that the House of Peoples should choose six of their representatives in this Commission for reasons of parity that corresponds to home equality. So much, I say, for only business reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2513	Thank you, fellow Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2514	Thank you. Given that we have established this conclusion in the House of Nations section and that you are familiar with the names the club heads have proposed, I now urge you to move to a statement on this proposal. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present, 12 delegates were for, against no one, abstentioned anyone. From the Federation – 8 for, from RS – 4 for. Given that there is a general and entity majority I find – we have adopted a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Parliament to draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedures of the Representatives' House and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and have appointed: Martin Raguž, Borjana Krišto, Halid Genjac, Hasan Bećirović, Dragutin Rodić and Krstan Simić as members of the House. We're going to work on the 18th item of the agenda, Ad. 18. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the Consensation of the Decision appointing members of the Council of the National Minorities of BiH (proposed by the Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly) At the 17th session of 22.01.2013, the joint college of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly members discussed the Decision appointing members of the National Minority Council of BiH delivered by the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics since 06.11.2012. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH held at the 23rd session of 04 and 06.12.2012 and the House of Representatives at the 36th session held on 07 and 22.11.2012. For 42 years, they adopted a Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH. Since the homes adopted the Decision in a different text to the Joint College of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, it decided to propose and reach conclusions on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses to agree on the appointment of members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH. At the 41st session of 31.01.2013, the House of Representatives adopted its conclusion and named Nermina Ćemalović, Dragan Vrankić and Saša Bursać in the Commission. I am opening a debate and I urge you to propose members of the House of Peoples Commission. A lot of work for the club chiefs today, a distinguished colleague named Borjana Krišto came forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2516	In the interim joint commission of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly for the consent of the Decision to appoint members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH to the House of Peoples in front of the Croatian Envoys Club, I propose Mr Martin Raguž. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2517	I thank my colleague Krišto. A distinguished colleague, delegate Halid Genjac, came forward. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2518	Thank you. In front of the Bosniak Club Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2519	Thank you. Dear colleague Dragutin Rodić came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2520	In front of the Serbian People's Delegations Club in this Commission, I would like to propose Staš Košarac, president of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2521	Thank you. The discussion is still open. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I'm closing the argument. 43 Since we have suggestions, I invite you to come forward. Thank you. In this vote, of the 13 delegates present, there were 13 delegates. From the Federation of BiH – 9, from Serbia – 4. There is a general and entity majority, so I find - we have adopted conclusions on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to agree on the appointment of members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH, and have appointed as members of the House of Peoples: Martin Raguž, Halid Genjac and Staš Košarac as members of the Commission. We're going to work at point 19. Ad. 19. Consideration of the extension of the term of office to BHRT Management Board member, material of the Secretariat of the BHRT Management Board of 25.01.2013 Acting under the responsibility of the College of the Peoples, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH discussed at the 20th session held on 25.02.2013 a letter from the Management Board of RTV BiH from 25.01.2013, requesting the extension of the term of office of a member of the Management Board of Others whose term of office expired on 29.01.2013. The Commission adopted the following conclusion, which points to the House for adoption, quotes: "A member of the Board of Directors of BHRT of the others whose term of office expired on 29 January 2013 shall be extended until the appointment of a new member and no later than 90 days", closed quote. I give my word to the proposal to Mr Hasan Bećirović on behalf of the Commission if he wishes. There's no need. Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Speaking under this proposal, from the 13 delegates present, 13 delegates were in favour. From the Federation – 9. From Serbia – 4. There is a general and entity majority, so I find - the conclusion of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. Since we are now moving to the 20th item of the agenda and it is subsequently added to this agenda at the request of the technical service I approve a break within a very short time, I cannot assume, but very short, in order to adapt the information system to work on this item of the agenda. Please stay in the O.R., I hope this will all be over soon. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2526	So nothing, co-operation between BiH and the Republic of Azerbaijan as two friendly countries is far from the level it could be at, precisely because there are no open issues between the two countries. The House of Representatives at its last, last session adopted the text of Resolution, followed by a delegation of the House of Representatives in Azerbaijan, followed by a delegation of Azerbejdžan headed by Minister of Economic Development, Mr Šahin Musafajev was in BiH and after that bilateral, the need to correct the text of this Resolution, which we have here today in front of him. And I propose that we adopt this Resolution, and since it is not in the same text as the House of Representatives adopted by the Rules of Procedure may not say that a commission can be formed that will bring these two texts into line, but she said, but she did not say that she could not, so perhaps in that sense, there is a committee that together with the House of Representatives will agree these two texts. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2527	I thank my colleague Bradarić. A delegate named Mladen Ivanić came forward for the word, please welcome your distinguished colleague. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2528	This is a typical example of foreign policy and should, in principle, have, if anything, at least the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Presidency. I can understand it, but if we're going to take this policy more seriously internationally, it would be worth an opinion to be because of all possible implications, especially when I see that the text has been adopted differently in relation to the House of Representatives. Well, if nothing else, for some reason, at least get some alignment. So I'm not talking about content itself, basically. But I really think that this should be prepared a little bit more thoroughly when it comes to the Presidency and the Foreign Ministry's relationship with these declarations.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2529	Thank you, Mr. Ivanić. Given that Mr. Bradarić is from the foreign minister's political party, we'll assume that it's agreed is it? Okay. Since there are no further applications for discussion, we are moving to a plea. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present, 8 delegates voted against, no delegate was against, four delegates were detained. From the Federation – 6 for, against no one, abstention 2. From RS – 2 for, abstention 2, against no one. There is a general and entityal majority, so I find the Resolution on respect and support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Azerbaijan has been adopted. We are now in a situation where, given the proposal of additional Mr Bradarić, we give our statement on the formation of our committee's dialogue on text alignment between the two homes. I call on club bosses and other promoters to exercise their rights and nominate delegates who will enter the process of reconciliation. The word came from a respected colleague of Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2530	Mr. Bradarić, who is an expert on this resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2531	Thank you. Dear colleague Dragutin Rodić came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2532	Mr. Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2533	Thank you. 46 For the word is answered, I suppose Mr. Vrdoljak is? Mrs. Krišto, there's just no application, and there is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2534	Here's how... at the club and here's what we had in some way different attitudes. I'd like to ask for a brief break, to consult in terms of these pre-prolongies. So I can't, here in some way in terms of different approaches and attitudes to the resolution, propose a person who will be in the committee to agree on various adopted texts.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2535	Respecting your attitudes and the situation in which the House is presently located, and given your right to seek a break, I am taking a break. I hope very briefly, here we are not going to determine the time. [[PAUZA]] Mrs. Krišto, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2537	Thank you very much. Here in front of the Club of Harmony, we propose one of the promoters, it's in person, Mr. Krunoslav Vrdoljak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2538	Thank you. Given that we have all the names, I now invite you to move to a plea. Thank you. Out of the 12 delegates present, 11 delegates were in favour, against no one, there was a abstention of 1 delegate. From the Federation - 8 for, no one against, no one abstains. From RS - 3 for, no one against, 1 abstention. There is also a general and enthusiastic majority, so I realize that we have adopted a conclusion which we refer to as Mr. Mehmed Bradarić, Mr. Staš Košarac and Mr. Krunoslav Vrdoljak at the Commission for Harmonization of Texts adopted in two homes. I hope we finish the rest of this session very quickly and efficiently. Well, we're moving on to the rest of the agenda. On the agenda of today's session, we still have the agreement to ratify agreements and conventions. On the proposal of the delegates from the order of the Serbian People's Club, I propose that we bring together a debate on the declaration and approval of the agreement, convention and protocol, from 21st to 28th, including 27th. We'll level this if we need to, except for the last item of the agenda, and that's the point, except for the 28th point. I'm opening a debate. 47 Who is for this proposal? So, apart from the point called – Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on cooperation in the field of tourism, the materials of the BiH Presidency, so other than that point. So, is anyone answering for a hearing? Niko one's answering. I'm asking you nicely, so let's see who's answering for the word. Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2539	So, point 27 was -- the Memorandum of Understanding of the Council of Ministers and the Government of Islamse repunlika of Iran on co-operation in the field of tourism. Point 28 was – the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on defence co-operation, point 29. would be – the agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and Croatia on defence co-operation, which was removed. These two points were the last to be excluded. Then we didn't understand each other. So, [[Common discussion]] So, just for the record, the deal with Croatia is off. Pakistan and Iran have replaced the order by priority, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2541	We don't know which one we prefer.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2542	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-26-0.u2543	Okay, let's move on to a statement on this proposal. Here you go. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, there were 12 delegates, against no one, abstention 1 delegate. From the Federation – 8 for, against no one, abstention 1. From the RS – 4 for, against no one, restrained no one. There's both a general and an entity majority, so I find that the proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. You have received a report from the Commission on foreign trade policy, customs, traffic and communications. I give my word to the chairman, Mr. Bećirović, if he wants to? No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We're being reported. I'm closing the discussion. 48 Now we move on to a plea. So, we vote on giving consent to ratification of the agreement, conventions and protocols from point 21 to point 28, except for a point 27 called – Giving consent to ratification of the Memoprandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on co-operation in the field of tourism, the material of the BiH Presidency. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 13 delegates were for, against no one, abstentioned no one. From the Federation – 9, from Serbia – 4. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that we have given consent to ratification of the agreement, conventions and protocols from point 21 to point 28, except for point 27, which reads – Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement(?) on the understanding between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on co-operation in the field of tourism, the BiH presidency material. We're moving on to the next item of the agenda, Ad. 27. Giving consent to ratification of the Memoprandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on co-operation in the field of tourism, BiH Presidency material You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication to the House of Peoples. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Mr Bećirović, if he wishes? No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement. Thank you. Out of the 13 delegates present - 9 delegates were for, against three delegates, one delegate was abstained. From the Federation - 9 for, against no one, restrained no one. From the RS – no one for, against 3, abstention 1. There's a general majority, but there's no entity majority. And we do not have the conditions for consultations, given that Mr Tihić is not present here, so that at the next session we will have a statement of agreement, and then decidedly the conclusion of the Foreign Trade Commission, which is, after that, – the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH will ask the Council of Ministers of BiH to strictly take care of the division of powers between BiH institutions and entities in accordance with the provisions of the BiH Constitution. Or if you want, we can approach the plea immediately, we have business conditions. It's not a question. _________(?) You got it. 49
