ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16463	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 52nd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies, representatives of the media. Representatives of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on item 11 were also invited to attend the session. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The Work of the Commission of BiH institutions", as well as the BiH chief prosecutor on point 16. Consideration of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security with a proposal for conclusions on the blockade of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions from 05-07.06.2013. I warmly welcome the present MPs and guests. Ambassador Senad Šepić announced a delay. According to the information service, 36 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. When it comes to changes to the agenda, I would like to mention the following. The following are added to the agenda: point 16. Consideration of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security with a proposal for conclusions on the blockade of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions from 05-07.06.2013. Point 17. Consideration of the Commission's proposal for gender equality conclusion, which reads: "The Council of Ministers of BiH is obliged to submit to the Commission, within 30 days, a report on the application of the law in the field of the media, as stated in the request of this Commission, addressed to the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH and the Regulatory Agency for Communications." And point 18. Consideration of the proposal for the conclusions of the Joint Commission on European Integration. Point 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH and Point 7. Proposal for a law on the availability of immovable military property - Proposers: MPs of the BiH SDP and SBB Club, are complemented by the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which is negative. 2 The previous agenda has been removed from point 4. Proposal for a law on witness protection programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading), at the request of the Constitutional Commission, because a large number of amendments have been submitted. The draft law has been requested to submit a report to the Commission within 10 days in writing on all the proposed amendments. The deadline for delivery of the report has been extended until the next session. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda and I'm realizing there are no reports. I find that the 52nd session has the next Agenda 1. Approval of the minutes of the 51st session of the House of Representatives; 2. Legislative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-118/13, of 15.04.2013. (second reading); 4. Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Criminal Procedure Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-1-22/13, of 15.05.2013. (second reading); 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-124/13, of 23.05.2013. (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law – Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-1-13/13, of 17.06.2013, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 7. Proposal for a law on the availability of immovable military assets - Proposers: Members of the BiH SDP and SBB Club, Act No 01-02-1-27/13, of 05.06.2013, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: MPs Lazar Prodanović, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović and Azra Hadžiahmetović, Law No: 01-02-1-38/13, of 22.07.2013. (first reading); 9. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Volunteering – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-30/13, of 10.06.2013. (law in first reading); 10. Report on agriculture for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012, material from the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, issue: 01,02-28-726/13, of 08.07.2013; 11. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: “The Commission's work of the BiH Institution”, material of the Institution's Audit Office, issue: 01/4-16-1-818/13, of 12.07.2013; 12. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2012, material of the BiH Ministry of Security, issue: 01-04-563/13, of 10.05.2013; 3 13. BiH Security Minister Fahrudin Radončić's statement on the allegations and claims he made in the Vecernji list "Ozor" 18.05.2013 against BiH presidency member Bakir Izetbegović and Party of Democratic Action (realising SDA MPs' initiative, adopted at the 50th session, held on 18.07.2013.; 14. Review of Parliamentarian Zijad Jagodić's initiative with the 50th session of the House, held on 18.07.2013, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I would like to point out the parliamentary initiative that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is having a public debate on the subject: "Bosnian Herzegovic Rivers and Lakes in the function of improving the economy", and that the BiH Council of Ministers prepares initial material for discussion", issue: 01-50-1849/13, since 18.07.2013; 15. Review of Parliamentarian Zijad Jagodić's initiative with the 50th session of the House, held on 18.07.2013, which reads: In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I submit a parliamentary initiative to the Parliamentary House of BiH to hold a public debate/conference on the subject: "The House for Diaspora and Diaspora for Homeland", for which the Council of Ministers of BiH would prepare the initial material for discussion", issue: 01-50-1-850/13, since 18.07.2013; 16. Opinion of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security with a proposal for a conclusion on the blockade of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions from 05-07.06.2013, issue: 01-50-1-15-49/13 of 27.08.2013; 17. Consideration of the Commission's proposal for gender equality conclusion, which reads: "The Council of Ministers of BiH is obliged to submit to the Commission, within 30 days, a report on the application of the law in the field of media, as stated in the Commission's request: 01/6-50-3-6-10/13, of 23.01.2013, to the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH and the Regulatory Agency for Communications", issue: 01-37-869/13 of 23.07.2013; 18. Consideration of the proposal for the conclusions of the Joint Commission on European Integration, issue 01,02-50-19-885/13, of 26.07.2013; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Vlada of Rumunija, No 01,02-05-2-864/13, of 22.07.2013; 20. Giving consent to the retrieval of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the implementation of the Public Service for the Market in Real Estate and European Integration, No 01,02-05-2-865/13, of 23.07.2013; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding concerning the implementation of the Dignity Work Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina 2012-2015. Between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Labour Organisation, issue: 01,02-05-2-866/13, of 23.07.2013; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement on credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe Development Bank, No 01,02-05-2-894/13, of 01.08.2013; 23. Giving consent to the retrieval of the Agreement on Credit, Finance and Project between KfW, Frankfurt in Meina (loaner) and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH (loaner) and Republika Srpska, represented by the Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska and Hydropower in Trebišnica (HET) (the Agency for the Implementation of the Project) for 10,000 euros – Resuscitation of HE Trebinje 1, Phase III, issue 01.02-05-2-893/13 of 01.08.2013. 4 We move to the realization of the agenda. First act, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 51st session of the House of Representatives The record from this session you got. Is anyone answering about this agenda point? An MP, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, appears to discuss this agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16465	Thank you. I say hello to everyone. There is only, in the record, short, at point A.3. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce does not merely state that there has been a debate and that I have held a debate. It's all in the record to be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16466	Okay. Here, we heard one intervention from MP Lijanović. Since no one ever shows up within this point, I'm closing the debate. Of course we'll install this intervention in the record. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received Until today's session, the questions asked were: Milorad Živković, Zijad Jagodić, Slavko Jovičić, Nermin Purić, Zvonko Jurišić, Ismeta Dervoz, Nermina Ćemalović, Amir Fazlić, Boško Tomić and Senad Šepić. Any comments on the answers? Ambassador Andnan Bašić first called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16468	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I apologized at the last session because I didn't get the written form, as usual, the answer to my parliamentary question. I only found him at the club, so I'm asking you to let me answer that question I couldn't at the last session, it's about the Post Bank. 5 I hesitated whether at all to respond to what I had received because the entire public was aware that the complete scenario of the destruction of one of the most important banks, our property, in BiH, with the largest number of my facilities, as well as every post office in each country, was deliberately done, done and convicted. The public is familiar, but everyone shut up and so am I, although I knew in advance of everything I got in writing that would be achieved. I'm sorry that at least someone in this House didn't talk to me about one theft of the practical property of a state like Postanka Bank, but unfortunately neither the first nor the last case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16469	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16470	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome you, welcome colleagues and colleagues, of course representatives of the Council of Ministers and all present. And here, we started, we didn't actually interrupt this, and the press is looking forward to it because it was empty, so they wrote, and now they're the only ones who've been waiting for this, but here we go. So it's gonna be hard for me to answer now and comment on the question I asked, because it's very complex and it's going to be every session, and it's going to be about marking the characteristics of the municipalities and the day of the municipalities. Now, that's coming, which would be more like a succesively, as it's been said professionally, reminds me a little bit of that hymn text when it came to those 336 texts, and then 5, 10, 15, 20, mathematical progression increased, so I can't comment on what the community has delivered to me now, because you're getting it, and you've seen about what it's about. So, you're going to need that, when I get the sum and when that one stops, I'm going to call it the sending and collecting action of all of that data from all of the municipalities that approve, and I see that they show a lot of interest in answering that parliamentary question, and then it's going to be a thing to bring it into line at BiH level and harmonize it. So not to be in one municipality celebrate religious holidays, there are other features of one people, but to try to do so somehow, which is very important for the overall functioning of the local government that is most important for all citizens. So, in order not to comment, it's hard to comment now when the materials are just coming in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16471	Thank you. The word has an MP, Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16472	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. My parliamentary question referred to the protection of the Cetinan forests in BiH. My question was addressed to the ministry, to the federal ministry. I have received an answer that is very professional and quality written and I have no objections, but my observation remains fundamentally that our forests are unprotected. From what you can see, it has not been enough to take everything that should be done to protect the forests from the footers that have been recorded lately 6 when you go anywhere and across BiH, to see a certain forest and damage that is happening. Here, maybe, that's one suggestion, that's settled in the RS in a unique way, I see there's a little bit of a problem in the Federation, so maybe a little bit more work to try to protect those natural resources of ours, our resources and our wealth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16473	Thank you. The word has an MP, Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16474	Thank you. Dear Chairman, co-chairing, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, guests, media, I welcome you all together. I've received in the past 10 days, 15 days an extremely large number of answers from various courts, above all those who are not in charge. My question was – how much we have in BiH stock companies, companies with limited liability against which bankruptcy proceedings were imposed, when bankruptcy proceedings were introduced, who was the bankruptcy manager and what cases were successfully completed. From the answers I received, primarily cantonal courts, which are competent, and district courts in the RS area, I noticed that they are practically in certain companies, not to say one bankruptcy manager has several companies that run. I think it's extremely bad information for us all, so we need to work on it. However, what I would particularly like to point out is that in all these answers that I am getting the impression and impression, which is why I am particularly and slightly surprised, that in our services of this Parliament, practically when we ask the initiative, or question to the competent institutions, the services should know exactly who to refer a particular question to. The question I addressed went exclusively to BiH's competent courts. Our services have sent a letter to all courts, therefore to municipal courts that are not at all competent for bankruptcy proceedings and people are normally extremely hard at work, a great cost, but the feedback also invested huge resources, efforts, not to say the obligation and the waste of all these courts' time to answer that they were not in charge. I'd ask them to make sure in the departments who's in charge doesn't make the cost unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16475	I thank Ambassador Jagodić. The word is from Ambassador Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16476	Mr. Chairman, esteemed fellow MPs, esteemed and honored guests. I would only comment on the answer to my question which was raised – which is the status of the Secretary of the Election Commission, whether he is a civil servant or has been elected for the term of office. He has information that the Systematization Regulation is changing in terms of being a civil servant. From this answer, and my findings on this question are evident that I was right, from the answer exactly 7, it was said that it was changed and the Regulation and that this is now being run by the state. So I'm satisfied with the answer, and I don't know what I can do next and what steps I'm going to take on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16477	Moving to b) New Parliament Questions Are there any reported MPs? The word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16479	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman and esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the others present. I have one parliamentary initiative and one parliamentary question for a while. So, the initiative refers to the formation, i.e. the reactivation of the Commission for Missing Serbs in Sarajevo. I ask the Council of Ministers to form a multidisciplinary team, a commission, whose composition should be attended by representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the families of captured and killed fighters and missing civilians of the past war, as the Organisation of the Families of the captured and killed fighters and missing RS civilians addressed several times the chairman of the Council of Ministers with a similar request, which was left without response. And that the formation of this commission becomes even more relevant after the trial tests by the Institute of Missing Persons under the order of the Prosecutor's Office and the exhumation of post-mortem remains at the Sarajevo city dump of Buća Potok,... became a number of evidence that Serb bodies were found in the Srbin during '92-'95. A year. So it's an initiative. And the second is about the parliamentary question – when will the Ministry of Defence deliver complete information to the House of Representatives and propose a solution to overcome the problem caused by the destruction of ammunition and mine-explosive assets on the "Decisive Barbara“ range? And what are the results of a recent land survey in this area, do reports indicate the existence of a health hazard for the local population of Glamoc? So that's the question I'm referring to the Ministry of Defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16480	Thank you. The word has an MP, Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16481	Thank you. The question I refer to the Council of Ministers is – What has been concretely done so far from the Council of Ministers' Communication Strategy on the general, internal and external communication objectives set? 8 The second question is for the Council of Ministers, Entity and Cantonal Government, and the Government of the Brcko District – What has been done to date to promote capital investment and achieve maximum economic effects in employment, improving technology and developing BiH? What is specifically done in the construction of a domestic training economy for competition, both domestic and international markets, and the EU market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16482	The word has a letter from Nermin Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16483	Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome you and everyone present. I refer the parliamentary question to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH. It reads – I ask to be provided with information when the procedure for the adoption of the Law on Organic Production in BiH has been launched and when is the same in the parliamentary procedure expected to be referred to? I explained the following: The adoption of the Law on Organic Production in BiH is one of the activities from the Map of Ways and is in line with the requirements for harmonisation of the legal regulation and Aki in the process of European integration with the aim of creating conditions for exports of plant and animal origin products. I'm asking to be answered in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16484	The word has an MP, Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16485	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. I have a few questions for the Ministry of Transport and Communications. First of all, on the basis of the type-approval and certification project of imported vehicles in BiH, I am looking for data on the number of vehicles per type that entered BiH and which were approved in 2012 for the BiH market, and the amount of money paid by BiH citizens for this service. Secondly – I am looking for a list of users of bilateral transport permits, and how much funds are collected by this basis and from which subject. Third – What about the execution of judgments in connection with the BiH Faculty of Machines lawsuits, and the verdict of irregularities about the appointment of assistant ministers. Furthermore, I have one question to ask the Council of Ministers – As an MP at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I have reliable information that there are government officials in certain ministries who in half a year or even a year receive only a few cases of work, which are not even objects but mere information. In line with this interest, have the BiH institutions so far done an analysis of the efficiency and effectiveness of existing jobs according to the current 9 internal organisation rules, i.e. systematicised jobs? If they are, what are the results and what is done after the analysis? If they are not within what time limit do they intend to carry out an analysis of efficiency and efficiency, and when can MPs get results? And one question of the Direct Taxation Directorate – How many motor vehicles were imported in 2012? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16486	The word has an emissary, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16487	Thank you, Chairman. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Traffic. It is known that in the making of a new law or amendments and additions, I don't know, the Traffic Safety Act. Unfortunately, like all of us here, every weekend, Saturday, Sunday, we all start with reports of who died last night, especially about young people with strong vehicles, so full of adrenaline, so I think that the last few years a city in this country has disappeared, and that we need a little more repressive law. So I'm curious – when does the Ministry intend to refer this law to the procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16488	The word has an MP, Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16489	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. My question is addressed to the Directorate for Direct Taxation, so to the Customs Sector – why, therefore, the Directorate for Direct Taxation, on a proposal from the BiH Veterinary Office, by the decision on the level of compensation for compulsory veterinary health checks on the border of BiH, has increased almost 4 times the amount paid for the veterinary health examination of cereals, specifically maize for animal nutrition? The earlier decision on the level of the veterinary health check obligations in transport across the BiH border amounted to up to 10 tonnes of net weight of 20 KM, and for each subsequent start of a ton of 3 KM. The decision currently in force, so according to "the Official Messenger of BiH", number 62/12, from 13.08.2013, is the amount of the fee for imports up to 6 tonnes of net weight 70 KM, and for each subsequent beginning of a ton of 9 KM. For the purposes of comparisons, 25 tonnes of corn were previously paid for imports of compensation of 65 KM, and now that fee for the same amount of corn is 248 KM. Croatia's entry into the EU, as well as certain measures taken by the Republic of Serbia, further limited and difficult imports of significant products from these countries, as well as exports thereof, taking into account that the food price is 30 to 70% in the price of the finished product in livestock and poultry, thus significantly affecting the price of the goods in BiH. 10 I ask the Directorate for indirect taxation, or the Council of Ministers, under their jurisdiction, to consider this issue with a view to changing the above-mentioned decision, so return to the earlier. This significantly affects the price of imports of corn for animal nutrition by 10% compared to so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16490	The word is from Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16491	Your Honor, Mr. President. A few days ago, on August 23rd, a large part of democratic Europe marked the European Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian regimes. This is why I refer the initiative to the following content: Given that BiH is a member of the Council of Europe, that it sees its future in the EU and that it is a democratic country, which, of course, means accepting the relevant European and civilization standards, as well as the general standards of democracy, I find it useful and necessary for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to carry out the debate, and asks the BiH Council of Ministers to define and propose a resolution on the condemnation of the crimes of totalitarian communist regimes, as well as the declaration of 23 August on the European Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. The request is based on Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Reason: I believe that it is obvious that the numerous current problems BiH is facing stemming from the way it thinks and insults a characteristic of a totalitarian system that prefers particular interests rather than the general interest of the entire community. To change that, it is necessary to take a critical look at our totalitarian past and a clear condemnation of crimes and violations of human rights that were part of it. That's the real reason. The same important reason lies in the fact that we are a democratic country and a state towards European integration. In this context, the following key documents bind us to the proposal. First, the UN Human Rights General Declaration of 1948, I'm going to skip the elaborate of what's contained in it and what's driving us to do this. Another important document is Resolution No. 1096 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on measures to remove the legacy of the former communist totalitarian systems since 27 June '96. in which the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe called on the Central and Eastern European countries to condemn serious violations of human rights by and during the totalitarian communist regimes in them, to publicly express their regret and clearly fence themselves against these crimes, and to take measures to remove the legacy of former communist totalitarian systems. Third document Resolution No: 1481 also the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the need for an international condemnation of the crime of totalitarian communist regimes adopted on 25 January 2006. And finally, the fourth document is the Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism adopted in the European Parliament on 30 March 2009 with the date of April 2nd 2009, which the European Parliament expresses respect for all victims of totalitarian and non-democratic regimes in Europe, stressing the importance of memory of them, and calls for the European Day of Remembrance of victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes to be declared on 23 August. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16492	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16493	Thank you, Chairman. I'd ask a question about driver's licenses. It's about the next one. The driver's license now costs 65 km. I ask the question which is the calculation that has led to such a high price for one, the other, which has led to the price of the ID card on 18 March, where the effective costs, I'm convinced, are not more than 5 marks, not so much? So we print books, the rich, which are far less. So this is an absurd situation, especially with 65 marks. And second – Who printed these ID cards and driver's licenses? To whom is it given, and what is the procedure for the award of the printing of these documents? Thank you. It's an I.D., I think it's being directed.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16494	I find that there are no more elected MPs for new parliamentary matters. I'm closing this agenda item. I thank you for a rational and efficient approach within this agenda point. I hope that's how we'll do it at the next points. I'm going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) I'm opening a debate. Dušanka Majkić, the first member of parliament, signed up for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16496	A few words just to say. Since here we have finally received and finally adopted this Law on the implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Extermination, I would just like to say that it has been corrected in the Law by a mistake which has been made for an inexplicable reason, which is that they have been released from the State Coordination Body, which forms the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and appoints the Council of Ministers, that two entity health ministries have been omitted by mistake. The amendment adopted unanimously at the session of the Commission and became an integral part of this Law corrected this error so that all the conditions for the Law to be released are met. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16497	Thank you. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16498	Very briefly, therefore, the President of the Commission said everything and I absolutely supported this Law. But, for Bog's sakes, let me put it this way, if by any chance we would not adopt this law today, I suggested one conclusion, if we didn't adopt it. It's never safe, he doesn't know how things are gonna go. If we do not adopt it, I have proposed one conclusion calling on the Council of Ministers to activate, or complete this state coordination body that does not work and it is practically impossible to implement this Act in the existing and implementing obligations under the Convention. So, of course, if the law is passed, I will draw the conclusion immediately.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16499	I thank Mr. Belkić. No more reports. I'm closing point three. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Criminal Procedure Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) I'm opening a debate. MP Šefik Džaferović applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16501	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Let me just say a few sentences about this law. I believe that what I am about to say is important, because it is a legal solution that we had before the reform of criminal law, and then we excluded it from a positive right, so there are problems, and then we re-entered that institute into the Criminal Procedure Act, and here today, after the Constitutional Court's ruling, after it was found that this solution is not in line with the standards to be agreed with, we have a law that practically implements the Constitutional Court's ruling. What's this about? It is therefore that there is now a provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure that says that when a court sentences more than 5 years of imprisonment, it is required, without questioning other grounds for detention, to provide for such a person to be held in custody until his sentence is brought to justice. The solution, according to the Constitutional Court, according to standards that are relevant and which must be applied to BiH, is not a satisfactory solution and is required by BiH to exclude this provision from criminal law. And this provision is on a proposal from the Justice Ministry, now such a solution is excluded from this, so it is no longer a provision after we, I hope, adopt this Law, 13 will not be a provision for positive criminal law of BiH, but courts remain obliged to appreciate whether there are reasons for determining detention or not. And I got up today to say, not wanting to interfere at all with the work of the judiciary, and I can't think of it, but I call on everyone in BiH who applies the Code of Criminal Procedure to imagine ourselves well above this provision, this will be the solution. This does not mean that the person who has been sentenced to prison for over five years cannot remain in custody, if the court assesses it. And I think that this situation should lead to BiH courts making the most critical approach to the assessment of detention, especially for those for whom it has been an obligation to place detention after a verdict, which is those who have been sentenced to prison for over 5 years. We had one situation here in BiH that we all, to use the people's expression, were very concerned about, after which we returned, so this solution and that's why I got up here today with a desire to say this. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16502	The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16503	One suggestion to the promoter, the Justice Department, of course, if there's anyone here if I don't write it directly to them. When it comes to laws in the field of justice or laws which may affect the judiciary, the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council is prescribed to obtain the opinion of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, but it has obviously revived the practice of not asking for it, that this opinion is not required. And it would be good for the future, when it comes to the laws in this area, to respect the Law on the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and to obtain the opinion of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Of course, I will support this law because definitely, here we have begun to fulfill or implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16504	Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16505	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, respecting what counterpart Džaferović said, but we are entering another procedure where true volunteerism and individual rights of any judge will take place, whether he will decide whether to send someone to prison if he gives him a sentence, let's say 7, 8, 10 years in prison and we have such cases, but what is it? It is only an alarm to the public and a great animosity of public opinion that will bring down trees and stones to the legislative authority that did not by law clearly define it. In that country, not everything was the worst and not all was black, but it was known – the sentence imposed by more than 5 prisons immediately goes to prison until the sentence is sustained, where he is scheduled to be punished. Here, now, if we leave the possibility to the judge, the Judicial Council, that what happens after saying, let's say 8 years, just decides, who guarantees me, who guarantees the people, who guarantees 14 citizens, who guarantees the future and the security of this country that the right decision will be made by the President of the Court or the Judicial Council, if it's tripartite, if we leave them the opportunity to decide, and we know what the options are and how it decides. Some court council in the same building, in the same court, in the same council, condemning a man for 40 years, the Board of Appeal says, these wronged. Listen for 40 years, and when a man was told 40 years at the same time he had a nervous breakdown, his family was shocked, a place, a city, a people. So, this is a completely vague provision and we, however we respect European procedures, laws and some positive practice, we enter into one of these, believe me, you will see what this will produce, anarchy where we will leave everyone the right and the possibility that he, I will freely call it, privately determines what he will do if he will say, if you are a gentleman sentenced to 8 years in prison, pack things to support the fine or pack a bag, kiss with us and go home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16506	No more reported or yet. Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16507	Thank you, Chairman. I would also confirm these facts that Mr. Slavko pointed out. So, what's this all about? I don't want to tell you stories right now. I think these are the breakthroughs of Anglo-Saxon law in continental law. So these are the kinds of breakthroughs where I have to tell you there's not a little pink situation in the EU. There he is, I'd say chaos right. And we'll probably accept that chaos, too, because there's a mixture of Anglo-Saxon rights and continental rights. There are countries that categorically reject this, such as Germany, which adheres to continental law, adheres to the law, so the principle of legality is a fundamental principle for all authorities. To give the so-called Discretional authority to a judge or anyone else is very dangerous to our space. Why is it dangerous? Because we don't have designed judges to do that, or shape a man physically, I thought a little differently, through schooling. So our schools don't prepare lawyers for this kind of trial, they're completely different, and there's a series of, a number of other reasons, there's a basic principle of legitimacy. So that's the point, the opportunity that at some point the judge himself estimates, but there is far more to invest in the judge, more to school, passing various educations, etc., etc. Such mentality has simply been created in such societies. And that's why I'm saying I don't think this, this possibility should be opened to our legal area where the principle of legality is a fundamental principle. As soon as we give something to an individual he, in these places, is typical, think of how to abuse what Monteskje said. Here, too, virtues should be limited, let alone power. So I don't think this should be accepted, such a provision that's in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16508	I am merely under this agenda point reminding myself that it is a second reading, that there has been no amendment to this Law and that the Constitutional Commission unanimously supported this Law. 15 The word has an MP, Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16509	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Well, here's why, among other things, I answered. As you said, so today we have a law in front of us in a second reading on which no amendments have been tabled. We have a law that is the consequence of the implementation of the Constitutional Court ruling. We mentioned that we have a whole series of laws, namely the obligation to implement the Constitutional Court's judgment. Here is one of these judgments that should also be carried out by adopting this legislative proposal. The third thing I answered was the fact that, I don't see, I'm not sure I understand, I have to say what the problem is here. So we have a court and a judge, is he, who can sentence the prison for 10 years? And it's not disputed, is it, it's in accordance with the law, and I don't find it controversial, and then we question that same judge who sentenced a 10-year sentence, whether he'll be able to properly assess whether the detention should be extended or abolished. It doesn't make sense. Let's look a little differently. So the provision of this Law, the article proposed, provides for the possibility, means the universal possibility, that the court, in any case, whenever it sentences the sentence of the prison, can assess and determine the measure of detention. He can, and he doesn't have to. But again, I'm saying, we're talking about a court where, regardless, here's our subjective evaluations, evaluations, validity and quality, etc., independence and impartiality, and the settlement of something, but I want to believe that it is the largest number, as well as in all other areas, judges and professional and independent and impartial, and that even such laws should strengthen the responsibility of judges and courts for the conduct of their duties, but also strengthen trust in these institutions. 'Cause again, I'm not logical to believe that we trust a court to give someone a sentence of ten years in prison, and we don't believe when they estimate that they're determining or not determining detention. I, in any case, support the bill for these reasons and invite all of you to support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16510	There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the fourth item of the agenda. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) I remind you, the bill was adopted in the first reading at 50. Session, held on 18.07.2013. The Commission responsible for finance and the budget has submitted a report. I'm opening a debate. The word has an MP, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16512	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respecting the needs of strengthening and setting up an internal audit in all institutions, because this is also the revision when giving its report that there are problems about it, but at this point in BiH, I don't think that there can be an increase in public wage spending and therefore this amount of 290,000 marks in the budget that, I think, should have been deployed inside. Because it wasn't done, I can't support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16513	I find that there are no more reports. I'm closing the fifth point. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission At the 51st session of the House, held on 25.07.2013, no negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission was adopted, and the Commission was in accordance with Article 107(3). The Rules of Procedure tasked with drawing up a new opinion. A new opinion was delivered on 28.08.2013. The principles of the bill are not supported again. I'm opening a debate. MP Šefik Džaferović applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16515	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. This is the second negative opinion of this law. So far, we have spoken several times about all the issues related to this Law. As a whole, there is no parliamentary majority to adopt such a solution. For some solutions, there may be a parliamentary majority, but for all the solutions in the package as a whole, there is no such thing. Some solutions, again around which there is a parliamentary majority, disagree with the parties' positions and parties' opposition. I'm not going to talk about concrete solutions now. This is another negative opinion. You know what a second negative opinion means by the Rules of Procedure. In the first phase of the Law, you will, of course, inform the House, which is the decision. I stood up to say, no, nothing about the content of the law itself, I was talking about, that we in BiH urgently need to approach the preparation of BiH electoral legislation for the next elections in 2014. It is high time, because according to the existing Electoral Law, because the Constitutional Court's decision excludes the provisions describing the three electoral units from the RS entity for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, we must approach the amendment of the Election Law, the harmonisation, so 17 including these provisions in order for the Election Commission to be able to call the next general elections in BiH on time. Today is the end of August, so we have very little time. And for this reason, I propose that today, here at the House of Representatives, the procedure for the establishment of the Interresor Working Group, which will prepare amendments to the electoral legislation and hand-mell them over to the Parliamentary Assembly in order for the Parliamentary Assembly to prepare the electoral legislation in time for the 2014 elections. The best model we've had so far, which has shown efficiency is the model for this House to be three MPs, from the House of Peoples of Three Delegates, from the Council of Ministers of Three Ministers and from the Electoral Commission of Four Members of the Election Commission. I think they can review the Electoral Law and prepare election legislation for the next election. It would be an Interresor working group that, at the same time, will be working in the next period and implementation, more intensively on the implementation of the judgment in the case of Sejdić and Finc, which could therefore also prepare amendments after it comes, if it comes, I believe that this agreement and the adoption of these solutions, and in that part, so the implementation of the rulings of inclusion and preparation of amendments in the Election Law, because it is known that, in addition to the amendment of the Constitution, it will also be necessary to amend the BiH Election Law. Here, this is my proposal, I won't write it, I brought it out publicly here, I offer it to everyone, so here we are, and I would ask you as a College to consider this as a suggestion, if this could be your proposal. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16516	The word is from Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16517	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is another draft law on the implementation of this time by two rulings of the Constitutional Court of BiH. The draft law on which different opinions exist, or a proposal for a solution that clearly has different opinions, politically different opinions. And about each of the solutions proposed on amendments and additions to the Election Law, it is certainly possible to make countless other possible solutions. What I want to discuss here today is for the second time a negative opinion, an unchanged opinion of the Constitutional Commission, although we have returned it to the Constitutional Commission and told it to make a new report. Not to change the date, but a new report, a comprehensive new report. We haven't received a new report. We have to establish that. So, the Constitutional Commission didn't execute an order from the House of Representatives because it just changed the date in its report. There is no reason why this opinion is negative, this reason is not normally stated. The third thing, interesting thing is that I repeat, it is an attempt to implement two decisions of the Constitutional Court. And I ask the question – who will take responsibility for not implementing the Constitutional Court decisions? And I would also like to remind you that we already had this issue on the Interresor Working Group in the last session, which unfortunately failed to come up with a common solution on these issues which are still a problem. 18 Third, fifth thing I want this one to be, is the fact why the tenacious law is not being released even in the first reading? So there's a second reading, there's an opportunity to invest amendments, for all those who think they have better solutions than those offered in this bill. And I don't know what kind of thing, we have a fact that by who knows which time we have a bill coming from the Council of Ministers. We can play ping-pong with the Council of Ministers, so we'll be angry when we sometimes don't realize some conclusion, and when they do their part of the job and deliver it to us, we'll be kind of, out of respect, out of respect for the Council of Ministers to say gentlemen, the reasons why we won't even let it go in the first reading are that kind of thing. No, we're just saying we won't. So tomorrow we'll ask the Council of Ministers to give us a new one. What new proposal, what new proposal? And what principles do we even talk about when we talk about this law? What principles are not acceptable? I would like anyone, whose principles of the bill are not acceptable, to say in the article and thus, that principle is unacceptable because. And we can't just say no, I won't. What don't I want? What do you care if I don't? Well, we can't act like one. I mean, we need to be a little more serious, more responsible to each other and to those who deliver the bill, I mean the Council of Ministers. So the Council of Ministers, however, established the bill in the legal procedure and delivered it to us. But we're like someone brought it out of the market from somewhere, so just kind of illegally contradicted us, we're just saying we won't, it's not worth anything. There are solutions in this law, individual solutions that I don't like either. So you don't think I like all the solutions in this bill. I don't like them all, but that's why there's a possibility that in another reading whoever thinks they can fix something to fix it. I call on all of us here, I am aware that we have long been under discussion in order to convince each other of some better, good solutions, but that everyone is saying their own opinions about something, but I appeal that we have more responsibility for the implementation of the Constitutional Court rulings, I appeal that we show a little more respect for the Council of Ministers which delivers the drafts of the law, I appeal that we have more responsibility for the citizens of BiH, because we will put them in a position that we will not be able to organise next year's elections and I appeal that we listen a little bit to each other, to exchange ideas and opinions and to come to better solutions through arguments. I'm sure there will be no more negative opinions like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16518	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16519	Dear Chairman, Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. Well, maybe not a classic replica. I essentially agree with my colleague Lozančić that there should be a much greater responsibility when, in approach to such important issues and that there is no self-initiative to say something just like that, I will not. But at the same time, I don't think you can say it just initiatively, you have to. I agree that the Council of Ministers adopted this Law in 19 Rules of Procedure and delivered it to parliamentary procedure, according to counterpart Lozančić. But it was also in the Rules of Procedure that Parliament gave its opinion on it. So the Council of Ministers disagreed on this law. It was adopted by revoted from a number of ministers and it is quite logical, i.e. illusory, to expect political parties to have one opinion on the Council of Ministers and the other in Parliament. And in that sense, I agree that there should be much more responsibility. When it comes to prolonging elections, it's clear to everyone that there's nothing from that story. So it's about the Constitutional Court ruling for which there's a full consensus in this room. And as far as these judgments are concerned, and it concerns the definition of election units in the RS, the Council of Ministers, any MP, but in my view the most logical Ministry of Justice, can pass a law in the morning by emergency procedure, and we all know that it will be adopted. And with that section of the law, which refers to the election call, absolutely no one is against it. Here is the obvious solution that the electoral law is changing in segments of judgment by judgment. And here, I am quite certain that, that this was done in such a way that we would already be realized today, that is to say, resolve one Constitutional Court ruling, first of all, the one concerning election units in the RS. And as for the Interresor Working Group, I'm not against aprioriers. But I believe that the Justice Ministry has the capacity to, if the verdict is implemented, Sejdić Finc to formulate that kind of amendment to the Election Law. I believe that the Department of Justice, and this has also shown through this Law, has the capacity to implement the verdict in the case of election units. So here, let me have a small reserve with the formation of an interresor working group in a similar way as my colleague Lozančić said.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16520	Thank you. Replication response, dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16521	Thank you. No, I have to say, I'm sure there's something replicated to me, but here's another finding that I also want to underline once more. Dear colleague, you said so yourself – Parliament has spoken. It is, twice, returning the decision to the Constitutional Legal Commission to review the qualified majority. It's Parliament. So Parliament said it disagreed with the Constitutional Commission's negative opinion, and that's a fact. The other thing is we don't respect it either, on the side of the Council of Ministers. Here's not the Council of Ministers' proposals, we're not going to invest any amendments on his proposals, because we're disgusted by something, but we don't respect the majority of this House that's going back twice, and it says, "You haven't done it, gentlemen."
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16522	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, vice-president, debate. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16523	Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Well, we can't practically discuss Opinions or the law anymore today. We can only figure things out. We can conclude that this law has been brought down because the second time is a negative opinion, and by automation, the law is coming down. But we can also understand that the principle that was in force, for a long time I have been in this Parliament, and I know every time we in the RS said that there was something going on in the Council of Ministers, our colleagues convinced us here that there was no problem, that no minister from the RS voted for these proposals, that there was no problem. So one principle can't apply when they are revoted in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Slovenia, and then the principle applies when Bošnjak ministers are revoted in the Council of Ministers, that this is deluded and that it cannot pass in Parliament at all. So we can stop and that's what happened here. We also know that you've convinced us every time we thought there was no constitutional basis, let's play first reading, so we'll fix it with the amendments. You can't even play first reading. And don't tell another story again, when it happens in the Council of Ministers and it concerns the RS, and the second time it happens with Bosniak ministers, so don't tell different stories. Be principled. We're also talking about respecting the Constitutional Court's decisions. Fellow Members, one thing is when this House casts its vote to break the law or to uphold the law. And the other thing is when individuals in the Constitutional Commission, or any other commission, give themselves the right to disobey the Constitutional Court's decision. There's a difference. And we, having received from the prosecutor to say that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are respected, must be delivered as the leadership of Parliament and information on what was happening on the Constitutional Legal Commission, when the order of the Ministry of Justice, the Council of Ministers, came to the Constitutional Commission. I wouldn't take my right to keep the Constitutional Court's decision on the Constitutional Court and bring it down that way. I would give this Parliament the right to do so. You had no reason not to let this Parliament do so here. And now I appeal, as my colleague, Honorable Lozančić, and those of our fellow MPs, who did not accompany all the procedures, from the Ministry of Justice, from the Council of Ministers, so they did not appear at the meetings of the Constitutional Commission twice. And that's why it's negative, among other things. If they were at that session, and I don't know why they weren't at that session, maybe the opinion would be positive and we might be discussing the Law in the first reading today and have the opportunity to discuss amendments as well. So discuss with your colleagues why they did not appear at the Constitutional Commission meetings. I'm sorry this ended with this law, but I have to warn you one more time. You didn't do anything that when MPs from the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia pulled this thing in the Constitutional Court, to help it have a positive effect. On the contrary, by raising vital national interest in the National Assembly and other obstructions, you have so far created a situation in which there is no longer any problem with this being solved here. It will not be resolved by proposing any MPs, who have done everything not to come to this and to say here are the RS who will not vote. No, we'll tell the RS when it'll go through. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16524	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16525	Well, it's not exactly a classic replica, but I was asked by my colleague Živković's discussion to one conclusion. I totally agree that it's unacceptable that the behavior that he's about to say, I will accept the principle only then and there when he answers me and I will never accept him unless he answers me. This is unfortunately, this problem is escalating, becoming a fundamental feature of our political reality, and we could automatically define it as a principled non-principle. It is impossible in the case of Mostar to advocate a principle that does not work anywhere else and only opposes the principle that has been accepted in all other environments in the Federation of BiH and BiH as a whole. And finally, I agree with my colleague Magazinović, of course, that if we were to partially solve these problems, the resolution that these two Constitutional Court rulings require, we would probably be at least partially more effective. However, I remind you that the Constitutional Court ruling treating Mostar's case is older than the second verdict, and that it was passed in autumn 2010, that we did not have a test of the democratic will of the citizens of Mostar in the last local elections. And it's completely, in my opinion, absurd and unacceptable to stick our heads in the sand and pretend like everything's okay or that it's none of our business, because it's none of our business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16526	Thank you. Discussion, honourable MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16527	Here, Mr. Chairman, you have quite correctly interpreted the Rules of Procedure, but you have continued the discussion, so here I am, therefore, accepting that practice that has already been introduced to us. So, from one political agreement of the key actors of the parliamentary majority, here we come, about the change of the electoral law, here we are in a situation that this agreement has not been realised. And as far as we're concerned, we're glad that he wasn't realised for a simple reason, Mr. Lozančić asked why, against, etc., we talked about it when the law was discussed in the first reading, mentioned the position of the Central Election Commission, mentioned the lists, closed, open, etc., etc., that we are not going back to it. I am pleased that parts of the parliamentary majority, i.e. parliamentary majority people, recognise the responsibility of parliamentary majority authorities to implement decisions of the Constitutional Court. And I do not need to be surprised, and I am glad that Mr. Živković now understands a little bit, that we get a letter from the Prosecutor's Office asking for a statement, etc., because simply the Constitutional Court forwards the notice that the Constitutional Court's decision has not been carried out by, etc., and it is logical to expect that we will again have requests for a statement. 22 My opinion, my opinion, is that the parliamentary majority should simply, through the Ministry of Justice, prepare amendments and additions of the Electoral Law according to the spirit and the letter of judgment of the Constitutional Court, and carry it out. A reform of the Election Law, agreements, etc. should be left to the new authorities for a simple reason to implement decisions of the Constitutional Court and not to enter the election year with outstanding issues, related to the names of municipalities and the city of Mostar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16528	Thank you. Discussion, dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16529	I thank the chairman. Although you in your discussion, since I didn't see on the monitor that you were logged in, you said most of it, but I can't help but confirm it and try to formulate one proposal. The issue of this law was most clearly seen by all the situations in BiH and all, not to use a harsh word, unimaginable political acrobatics that I don't think anyone understands. This is, if you start to analyze how here everything behaves who around this Law it has nothing to do with the opposition, let alone any relation to any letter in the majority. It is logical here to conclude that we are considering the replacement of the Constitutional Commission. That would be fair, that would be human and that would be normal. So, after last time Parliament's decision to the House, did they call it, it wasn't the decision of the majority, but the House's decision to make it perfectly clear to the Constitutional Commission what to do, it did the opposite. It is either the Constitutional Commission resigns or this House accepts the ultimatums of the Constitutional Commission, which is not logical either. It's not normal and it doesn't make sense. But in the crowd of other things abnormal and illogical we try to go right to the end. I don't remember this situation when it's in such a bold way, because that decision contained the inability of the House of Representatives to implement two decisions of the Constitutional Court. In their decision, they prevented the House from even giving it a chance to participate in the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court. And everybody knows, and the birds on the branch, that it could have been changed and then said, "Come on, I'll take it all down, but I'm calling someone there because I decided to do it." It's like that guy and somebody else aren't gonna do it. We know well that the amendments were able to make it all the way to the extent that we at least have agreement. There's probably some things we have agreement on, at least some of them. However, this was not allowed in a way, even though the same actors in several previous sessions held us here quite the opposite lecture on the Constitutional Court. I have now figured out what would save us - two constitutional courts, two constitutional committees, two majority, etc., to share, that everyone has their own state in the state and I don't know until when. We could probably do that then, so let each of us take whatever decision he's comfortable with, and then we could somehow get into a situation where we could make some kind of rational decision. It's all very clear here and it's very interesting that the foreigners are silent, because of course they're responsible for this. They took part in creating this situation and now they see that this is an impossible situation, that this is illogical, that this, I don't know who might swallow, which parliament and which institution this kind of behavior. But here, it's probably possible everything, and I think if we can't untangle the big thing, we can do it on the ground. I think we need to change the Constitutional 23 Commission because this is illogical. And that in some way we have this situation, especially we have a situation that the chairman of the Constitutional Commissions, with full respect, is from the opposition. And of course he uses all his business opportunities, which I fully understand and accept, but I don't know what others who support it think about it, and whether it's logical and normal, and especially in the story of the Constitutional Court's verdicts. I agree with a part of my colleague Lozančić's discussion, but he also kept silent that representatives of the Croatian people had not said a single word, although the HDZ minister proposed the Law. We have repeatedly supported the story that they all need to be equal, but in order to be equal, they should consume what is currently provided to them, not be placed on one side or the other. I'm sorry to have to say that. But twice not to take part in a statement about such an important thing is, we're getting poked in the eye, incorrectly. Incorrectly, the fact is that. Maybe for justifiable reasons, which I don't know now, maybe, but the result is that it happened too. We have a situation here to follow ministers from the Council of Ministers in decisions, on the other hand, we have to stay away from our ministers, and svet Petar can no longer figure out where he's going to go and on which side decisions are being made, and ultimately how we're going to get out of this whole story. Since we cannot influence others, I repeat and thus end, I think it is quite logical after the decision and clear messages of the House of Representatives and after the decision, very brave decisions of the Constitutional Commission, to deny the House, knowing the business consequences of voting on the Constitutional Court, to deny the House of Representatives any chance of trying to find a way out of this very important law today, I cannot accept that we can move on – the dots do not apply, we go to the next such and similar situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16530	Replica, dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16531	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Just for a little while, without intending to go into the discussion, to protect the integrity of the Constitutional Commission and of course me as chairman, I want you to, I've been listening to a lot of things and believe that it doesn't deserve any of my comments, except to say that all the insinuations at the expense of the Constitutional Legal Commission are being rejected. So that's something that's completely arbitrary, unfounded. The Constitutional Commission has been working by respecting the Rules of Procedure adopted by this House and all that, as a consequence of the work of the Constitutional Commission, arises is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. If I disturb you as chairman, you have a parliamentary majority, please hold your hands, I will respect your decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16532	Thank you. Discussion, distinguished colleague Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16533	Thank you. The key thing is that BiH is here today ahead of us and further progress is certainly BiH according to what we want. Amendments and additions to the Electoral Law proposed by the Council of Ministers did not pass at the Committee, obviously not, would not have been possible in Parliament either. This tells us that, either we need to change the Council of Ministers or disband Parliament. Disbanding Parliament, as far as I know, is very difficult. Change of the Council of Ministers, we can do this very easily. And if this current parliamentary majority, which supports this Council of Ministers doesn't support their laws, then I think there's one absurd thing that the public just needs to know. So either we need to start adopting laws proposed by the Council of Ministers, which is their job and should work, I thank them for offering it to me, or changing them, so that others continue what we want to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16534	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16535	The replica refers to what Honorable counterpart Džaferović said because this is not about any insinuations. Terminologically, we know what insinuation means. This is about facts. You did it, there's no insinuation. You have prevented this House today from discussing and making any decisions that would be made by the Constitutional Court. You did it and signed under it and bravely stood up and said this is not going to happen this way, no matter what is directed against the Constitutional Court, it will not go away, but I urge you to do what I do, which is also the business of your right. But you didn't tell us how to get out of this situation. I guess others have heads to think with her, you don't expect them to think with your head. It's your right to, yes, and we've always defended it, but you haven't commented for a moment on the new situation we've been in. It is not disputed that you did so according to the Rules of Procedure, but you did not comment that it was directed against the Constitutional Court's decisions and that you brought them down directly. You've brought down the possibility that they might be today, that's what you've done, even though you know you speak from the opposition benches. And you've prevented, if there's any majority, you've prevented the majority from making any decisions today. You as an opposition have the right to do it in some way, it's your job. But we're wondering, in fact, and it's unrealistic whether I'm setting up and telling Sisife's story. Is the background something completely different, which is not now a question of this topic and whether something much, much bigger is in the background? Only after this would it be fair for you to resign and allow the majority to choose their staff on the team, which has always been so far, which has always been so far. And if you don't want it, then we inside, if there's any majority at all, we should ask that question if it's possible to function like this. Because for these decisions today you won't take responsibility as an opposition and you don't have to take responsibility. And we take responsibility and you make decisions. Well, that's nowhere to be found, that's nowhere to be found. It's not real and it's not sustainable. And that's why I said to think about that position, if there is, and of course it's known and how that decision is coming to us, we'll finally see it. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16536	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on the sixth item of the agenda. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law on the availability of immovable military property - Proposers: Members of the BiH SDP and SBB Club, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission The draft law submitted by SDP and SBB in the procedure was submitted on 05 June 2013 with an urgent request for an examination. An emergency procedure has not been adopted at the 50th session, held on 18 July 2013. It has been decided that the draft law should be considered in accordance with the ordinary procedure. The Constitutional Legal Commission has been designated as responsible for the consideration. The Commission delivered its opinion on constitutional basis and principles on 28 August 2013. The principles of the bill as well as the constitutional basis are not supported. I'm opening a debate on the seventh agenda. Here you go. First, MP Šefik Džaferović signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16538	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. As you could see from the report the relationship of voting in the Constitutional Legal Commission was such that the opinion of the Constitutional Commission when it comes to the principles of constitutional basis when it comes to this law is negative, so the opinion is negative, because the three members of the Commission voted in favour, the three votes of the Commission were against this Law. Now I could distribute the theory, answer here using this position, but I won't do it, I've never done politics here in this House, I'm trying to come to a solution. I am now speaking as Šefik Džaferović, a member of this Parliament and of course chairing the Constitutional Commission on behalf of myself, not on behalf of the Commission. I think it's a shame that the Constitutional Commission gave a negative opinion on this law, I think we missed the opportunity to bring the country closer to resolving NATO accession issues. I suggest that, given the importance and importance of this Law, there are some solutions that I intend to fix in the amendment phase or try to fix, I suggest, therefore, as a representative in this House, that the House rejects the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission, this goes back to the Constitutional Commission and we try to get a positive opinion in order to finally have this Law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16539	Replica, Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16540	Thank you. 26 Once the Constitutional Commission had its true function it was all easy, they had a matrix and acted on that matrix when you were principled and then you had no problems. For every point you have an attitude that is principled and... If what Mr. Džaferović had now proposed just a minute ago, I would have imagined for this law, and then I would have said it was a principle. He didn't even mention the last time to reject the negative opinion of the same Constitutional Commission, and I definitely think that the Constitutional Commission is causing us a problem because there is a man at the head of the opposition who has a completely different task, and not that decisions are being made that do not, of course, contribute to the opposition. The story that he wouldn't, but these are now insinuations, that he wouldn't deal with politics, he thought he was comparing, these are incomparable things. The previous law treats two decisions of the Constitutional Court, it came from the Council of Ministers and so on, while this is quite another thing that two parliamentary groups have proposed without any consent and that is clear to us all. And where we were also ready to talk in a certain way that there was someone, some other space. But again, I am stressing the totally unprincipled behaviour of the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, it is already moving from this position to the right anarchy in the House of Representatives. Anyone neutral if you were to compare attitudes and arguments now, you'd see that it's from case to case and that it has nothing to do with legality, nor with principle, nor with political attitudes, because you'd have to have some kind of geneasia of that story that you can hold on to some principle. There's no principle here that you can't hold on to, but the only thing that remains after these views are the problems, they're getting bigger and bigger and bigger, and there's probably more, and we can't solve them in this way that someone can invite us to totally opposite behaviors from each other, and it's formally the same positions, I don't think, it's not sustainable.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16541	Replica MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16542	Just for a little while, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Kalabić, you are trying very hard to become a master of thesis replacements. Believe me, it's not working out for you here for the seventh year I've known you here in this House, whenever you try to do it so amateurally and so transparently that you simply insult the common sense of everyone else who listens. I beg you, respect the common sense of the people who listen to this hall and who listen around this hall and nothing more, spare us those of yours, I don't know what to call them, trying intellectual acrobatics or I don't know what else. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16543	Mr. Džaferović finished with the first, with discussion and the first replica. Second replica of MP Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16544	Mr. Džaferović, I have to admit that when he's in a formal corner, he's getting stronger, unfortunately when you push him out to clean up in politics and what he's convinced of, and personally disagrees about, I think he's personally bothered by this position, I know it well, but you know when you serve different interests then you have to find yourself in such a situation. He won't look back at what I was saying for a moment, he won't say it wasn't politics, that he didn't invite this dom to reject a negative opinion to the Constitutional Court and thus help implement decisions of the Constitutional Court. If someone had told me seven years ago that I would have heard it from Mr. Džaferović, who swore to the Constitutional Court, I would not have believed it. I would think that he has a moral integrity that is stronger than both the party and anyone when it comes to the Constitutional Court. Today I saw that he held the Constitutional Court as if it were the fall leaves. He must serve the interests of his party and his lobby, and that part of the party that is against the Constitutional Court's decisions, is not all his party against decisions, but the weak part. And I've asked for an argument no, I understand what you're saying, we don't have a problem with that, but I expected at least one sentence of this that forced you to jump into your stomach in one minute and 12 seconds. You could have asked one of your fellow Constitutional Commission colleagues to at least read it, that's how it used to be done, when you're not readable, and when you're in conflict with moral principles, ask your colleague to read it, and you go out into the hallway a little bit, and that's how it's done, and then you act a little naive, I wasn't there, and I don't know that either. Here, as my colleague Mato did so much better, he was late for any trouble on the road and what's good, possible. Well, it's possible, but every time, Mr. Džaferović, your parents make you play here, I won't be rude to tell you what. You are not one moment, because the fact, Mr. Džaferović, that you have prevented today from discussing and coming to the meeting of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, that in another law which is not an irrelevant law, is not an irrelevant law, but it is a proposal of a group of MPs to which people have the right and these others have the right to..., it is not, completely different positions and then you are trying. You have no answer, I know you don't, we end up here and the replicas, but this fact, unfortunately, it doesn't matter what I said, they're more in the air here today after this debate and they're not about me or you, but they are, they have a much more weight than some other people will end up dealing with, and they're in this situation that you're the chairman of the Constitutional Commission against the will of some, and that Mr. Sulejman Tihić is against your will chairing the House of Nations and it's all complicated and of course you can't come up with a solution, so logically quite completely. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16545	Don't leave the scene, please. So I hope we're done with this set. No, there's Ambassador Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16546	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to greet you and everyone present. Here, let me explain how I see this Chief's formula for replacing thesis, although here I am not, I'm saying, I was going to talk and I wasn't picking up on the previous agenda, but here's what I'm saying. That the BiH Constitutional Court's decision on the City of Mostar said that, an unconstitutional provision on the election of three council members from each city area was declared, and there was a point. Further stories about the Constitutional Court's decision were not about the request of the Croatian Club of MPs. The electoral law we were just talking about, and what is the essence of replacing these thesis, implements everything that is the request of the Hrvat Club to the Constitutional Court. Which means that... 28
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16547	Okay, I'm reminding you, the agenda point is the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16548	I know, I know what the agenda is, I'm saying I didn't get back to you just now realizing that individuals figured out the essence of what...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16549	I gave you my word to correct the wrong quote to Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16550	But here we are now talking, we are talking about decisions of the Constitutional Court, we are talking about replacing the thesis, and I am saying that the Election Law has predicted something else entirely, and that means abolishing the vital interest and abolishing the city's areas and abolishing the maximum quotas. And these are the replacements Mr. Šefik Džaferović spoke of when he referred the replica to Mr. Kalabić. (?) No microphone turned on Totally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16552	We move to discussions, the word has the vice-presidential home of Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16553	Fellow chairpersons, colleagues and fellow MPs. The first thing that makes me feel indirectly called because of the lack of two Croatian legislators on the Constitutional Commission, I have not come for justified reasons and probably quite unpolitical reasons for the next at least month and a half I will also not be able to participate in committees, so if there is a possibility that someone temporarily replaces me or that I resign, there is no problem with filling that place. But to get involved in this debate for a while. So, I agree with counterpart Kalabić that these two points, both previous and this, are not procedurally and formally comparable, but essentially they are. So both points deal with issues that fundamentally determine BiH's political future and relations between peoples and positions in BiH. And it is clear to all of us if there is no political agreement that these issues will not be resolved in this House, no matter how they pass through the Constitutional Commission. I agree with some who are implicit or explicit said that it may have been tactical from the position of the Constitutional Commission itself it was better that the law was released and the first and second in parliamentary procedure and in that way somehow the responsibility from the Committee shifted to, to say the broader back, which is this Parliament. 29 When it comes to a concrete law on immovable military property, I want to say here that it should be brought in for several reasons. It is part of our obligations both towards the European and also towards the Atlantic route and ultimately it is part of the political agreement between leaders of political parties and the parliamentary majority, as well as the party which today is not. But I also want to say openly that the way this proposal came into the process in the beginning was actually doomed because it was not part of a political agreement at least in the parliamentary majority. Now, I can also agree with counterpart Kalabić on the criticism of the Constitutional Commission and the need to review its work and its future and no less reason to offer this point than she did before, although I am a member of the Committee. But what I can say about this point is that after we know that there is a political agreement reached in Banja Luka, it seems to me in March last year about resolving the issue of military property, I cannot agree in any way that there is no constitutional basis, therefore for the adoption of this Law. I agree that we disagree on the principles of this Law and on all the conconsequences that occur if it is adopted, and they mean the activation of the Map and other things. So I appeal, therefore, today that we give another chance to the Constitutional Commission, so by refusing this negative opinion, to seriously consider this question, to try to reach a consensus. But I am aware that it will be difficult for him to come unless the other thing that is also part of the political party leaders' agreement, which is that the commission set up by the Council of Ministers, which treats the parallel and issue of military property and the issue of state property, does not finish its job and proposes to Parliament both laws. Therefore, by returning to the Constitutional Commission of this matter and appealing to the commission formed by the Council of Ministers, whose two members, I see here, we could then work simultaneously on these issues both in Parliament and in the Council of Ministers, can come up with a solution that will allow the Law on immovable military property to be passed, but, of course, respects the agreement of the leaders of political parties concerning state property. It's the only approach that I think will lead to a solution, everything else will be debate and outwitting and, I say, transfer responsibility to one side or the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16554	I thank my colleague Ljubić. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16555	So here, we appreciate this initiative, that is, the efforts of these two clubs to try to get out of this stalemate position when it comes to these 63 locations and generally when it comes to state property, understanding the situation relating to the road to the NATO Alliance and of course not to use property, or a confusion that people abuse. The property collapses, is not used in the best possible way, the Federation has not even taken up several locations, and a series of outstanding issues that we have raised here very often. We will support the Commission's negative opinion but for other reasons, therefore, absolutely as regards constitutionality, or the existence of constitutional grounds for us, there is no dilemma, because whenever we talk about state property, we start from the fact that it is BiH's property and that it is the 30th Parliament that will regulate that area, the way of availability, registration, allocation, sales, concessions, etc., we also talked about it on many occasions. The law is not acceptable to us for a simple reason, although it bears the name of the availability of state property he essentially speaks and processes distribution. Before, for us, a crucial step, the recording of state property on the basis of notorious legal facts in favour of BiH, and then everything further on this House can be decided. We think, we will continue to insist, that at this time there is no consensus and open issues related to the NATO alliance should not be unserious or ignored by Miss Pandurević's statement. Ms. Pandurević says the NATO Alliance will decide politics in RS, give through a referendum, or something like that, and the others will listen to it and nod their heads. So that's how I understood it. So, around the NATO alliance is a matter of great delicacy, but there are a number of other reasons that need to be addressed, that is, to activate and train this Parliament to manage state assets in favour of all. We think that the solution, because there is no consensus and we are not optimistic that the parliamentary majority will settle this properly, we think that the thing about these 63 locations is absolutely, that it's an absolutely technical question. The Ombudsman's office, based on the International Agreement on Succession where BiH has inherited these facilities by name and last name, based on the Constitutional Court's decision, which unquestionably said it was state property, that Parliament is the one and the so-called, etc., obliged to write it down, to carry out the technical part of the job. We've insisted ten times here, they insult having objects, they don't have objects, they start to book, so they're under political pressure not to do so. After that, this Parliament can make its decision, as we did for the American Embassy, grant a grant, assign temporarily, sell, do whatever it wants from 63 of that location, but they have to register and there is a legal basis for its enrollment. However, simple things have changed more, now only the story of the division, of the division, of the division, so that these notor facts, of the legal facts that speak of the property of BiH, because the entities did not enter it (?), BiH has received this property that we are talking about today by an international contract it has signed. Check what happens to property in Serbia, what happens to property in Slovenia, Croatia. Their governments, their parliaments, are at their disposal and benefit from this property. Let's get people to do it for everyone here, decide what will be done and without the votes of everyone, and the peoples and the citizens and the parties, there's nothing to be done. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16556	The word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16557	The Honorable Chairman. Here, we have another law before us that speaks of our undisciplinedness and that speaks more of ourselves than any of the words that have been heard here today. It is unfortunate that the Federation media has prepared a public opinion so RS lawmakers will not accept this bill because it means BiH's entry into NATO. So, such a finding, an incorrect finding, which I will argue in my next speech, speaks of forming a public opinion picture that corresponds to official Sarajevo. 31 In addition to that, I want to say the first thing, which is that the leaders of the six political parties, in these six political parties is Sulejman Tihić, and there is only no Party for a better future, so that the proposer of this law is only a Party for a better future I would understand that, that their leader was not there, they did not know, so they decided to make a move like this, but since the SDP signature was added that means that the classic SDP game today I accept and tomorrow change. It's not the first time we've had a chance to figure it out. In that, in these agreed principles, six leaders are clearly defined how and what should be done. And imagine, please, that immediately before the work of the Council of Ministers' Working Group was completed, not wanting their work to end, and it seemed that they would bear fruit and that we would have a law that would solve what the six leaders had proposed, at that moment came the law that signed the SBB and SDP. What did that mean? That someone didn't answer to bring it in and adopt it. I asked Minister Nović, he told me, and here is Minister Hadžić, he told me – that there was a high probability and everyone expected that the solution offered by the Council of Ministers would be to the extent that it could be adopted. What the proposing's intentions were to see, so before the new law came, which would have dealt with two things, and obviously the promoter didn't care, because the regulation of the state property issue is a double sword, one is the activation of the Map, it's not NATO entry, do you know where we are from the aspect of NATO entry, it's one step on the road. But the second, which is probably not responding to SDP and SBB, is the closure of OHR doors. Sarajevo can't officially imagine that moment for the OHR to leave here, and that's the key reason why the law came this sudden and narrowed down the coming of the Council of Ministers law. And a few more words that specifically, that I wouldn't, as Mr. Belkić was emotionally talking about things, I mean, to be clear, sometimes we got such a bad bill. In a law that says you have a decision on the size and structure of the Armed Forces, and then a cartoon, it's not written, you don't know what it is. So you've got the item number one, and you've got no contribution. So you have a bunch of undefined things standing around like holes. Therefore, inconsistencies, inconsistencies, could not be applied even if adopted. I said why it was important for the question to be resolved at the same time. The issue of military property is a key issue, but it's in fear. The defence ministry has done very little since the completion of the defence reform to settle the situation at the Ministry of Defence and lead to the activation of the Map. Even if we adopt this at this point only after 2006, the first time NATO and EUFOR have been under control since 2006, the Armed Forces do not know what they have at all. Is this an organization that's ready for NATO? Let's not talk about these things. So, the entire process is being controlled by EUFOR and NATO, and they will lead to a list being carried out and stored. Now we stand together in the same warehouses and what's perspective and what's unspective and what can be lit tomorrow and what we're going to need tomorrow. So that's the situation in the Armed Forces, what sort of a solution to the asset issue when the warehouses are full. The precondition for the bill is an agreement between the Council of Ministers and entity governments. There's got to be an agreement, remember you, I don't know if anyone remembers, we had an agreement that we concluded on movable property, where the resolution procedure was defined. That's how it has to be solved, because the law needs to come first to define the way it's going to be dealt with. Article 2 states, yes, I said, that the article 1 and a few other things, that, in Article 2 paragraph 3, the Ombudsman will, within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act, submit a request for registration of ownership in the land of the cadastrian and other public books, in accordance with Article 1, so it is a prospective movement property. And I remind you that this business of information from the Ministry of Defence cannot be done at all, no legal action has yet been completed on the 32nd alignment of land-book data from catasters and land books. It's not done, it's impossible to sign it up. Article 2 paragraph 4 states – The Ministry of Defence will, within 21 days of the date of entry into force of this Act, provide all necessary documentation on the immovable military property necessary for the purpose of enrolment. I would like to remind you that the Department of Defense has delivered to the Department of Defense the possessions and land-book copies for 19 locations, and this is 63. On what grounds does the D.A. need to sign up? What document, to write it by heart. So 44 locations have not been delivered any data. There are 6-7 locations that are too bulky for the current Armed Forces and need to be doparcellized. That procedure is under way, there's nothing until these things are cleared and finished. When, and when it comes to the unspective military property of Articles 3 and 4, this proposal of the law, it is evident that the promoter did not know what he was talking about. There are 46 inspective locations most of which are not ready to surrender. The armed forces have, therefore, 35 in the Federation, and in the RS with 11 of these unspective locations. From 46 locations ready to surrender is empty only 18, the rest are full of military equipment. So 28 still needs to be prepared, so 19 in the Federation and 9 in the RS. Finally, he says that the dynamics of the handover of certain immovable assets, beware, will be agreed between the defence ministry and the appropriate levels of government. Imagine when local communities go to the Department of Defense to determine when it will be released and when it will be available and when they will plan what they were going to do with it. So, a law that has no basis, which failed the leader's agreement reached, and we could easily get to it. I propose that we adopt the Commission's opinion that has come and ask the Council of Ministers to finish the job, and those who have failed the leaders' agreement not to, is too bad a situation in this country for them to further heat it up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16558	The word has Saša Magazinović, an MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16559	I thank the chairman. We are talking today about the Commission's negative opinion, not the essence of the law, if I understand correctly. To clarify the difference between this point and the previous point, I don't think we should... and say we're talking about negative opinion. This negative opinion on the Law on Military Property is specific in that it is here and a negative opinion on the constitutional basis. And I wouldn't have any problem with having colleagues at the session, and at least those who came to the session, and there I absolutely agree with the predecessors who talked about the problem, that not only the absence, but also the arrival of the building, and at least the absence of the session, so I wouldn't have a problem with having a negative view of the essence, I would have an understanding, although it would surprise me to have talked to a number of MPs, although from the same parties, but who, though, are not members of the Constitutional Commission, who gave me the right to believe that in their first reading this Law would receive support and their parties, then will try to correct it. Either I got it wrong or there's a difference when you talk about one thing in the O.R. at a meeting compared to when you talk about something past the joke. 33 But here is the problem, not essentially, but the problem of the Commission's negative opinion on the constitutional basis. And if we were to mention the agreement between the political parties, or their presidents, I would personally feel very uncomfortable to vote, that what the president of my party has agreed that I should say it has nothing to do with intelligence and that it doesn't even have a constitutional basis. What happened to Mr. Dodik's party colleagues, who did participate in this agreement, from which this law came out, whether it's good, not, whether it paints an agreement in general or not, we didn't even get a chance to talk about it. However, it has been said that there is absolutely no constitutional basis for talking about it. And that's a much bigger problem here than the very essence of the law. Furthermore, if we are talking about our path to NATO being conditioned by a solution to the issue of military property and we are going to settle military property by law, then by arguing that there is no constitutional basis for adopting a law that addresses the issue of military property we say and that there is no constitutional basis for this country moving towards NATO. And that is why this is a serious issue, which is why not only Parliament, but the Presidency should also address this issue. I remind you, the presidency unanimously, unanimously pleaded at BiH's definition of joining NATO. My question is, is there anything about this changing? Apparently, by saying there is no constitutional basis for meeting the conditions that NATO requires, there may be people who believe something is changing. That's what the story of the referendum is about, it's smoke bombs that people who don't know what they're talking about or pretend they don't know, but they know that the media likes this kind of bomb stuff. So, if it happens, if the BiH state and its institutions choose to ask their citizens what you think about joining NATO or whether you are to join NATO, it will certainly not be a job that will do any political party individually, nor will it be a referendum on which an entity, or a canton, or any other organisational form within the state will be asked. Because NATO is not being entered by an individual, not by a political party, not by an entity but by a state. And if there's a referendum, if sometimes when that time comes, it's going to be a country-level referendum. I also don't think that information has been checked, but now I can't make bigger grades since I've been confused lately with communicating with individual people where I get different attitudes from the same political parties, so I'm talking about this with a delay. I'm not sure what my colleague Majkić said was true that there was an agreement by the Council of Ministers and that this law was put into practice to warn the agreement. Here, I personally invite Mr. Nović to come and tell us what the deal is and to bring it to us personally and as far as I'm concerned, and the club that I represent, we are absolutely for every kind of agreement, but I think the story about it is close, we are still a little short on buying the time we have seen in many other different cases and from different political parties, and also from individuals. Unlike how and why something can't, unlike access to what's wrong and what's worse, we've defined ourselves for a different approach that's called how and let's try to finish the job. And the law proposed by SDP and SBB clubs is the result of this kind of approach and certainly no obstruction of the possibility of this job being completed and I would like to at least understand ourselves in that sense. I therefore stress the position of the SDP Club, of course that we will vote against the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission which says that we do not have a constitutional basis to discuss our path to NATO and we call on other colleagues to do the same and to give another opportunity for the Constitutional Commission to declare the constitutional basis, and I am convinced that until the next session of the Commission that at least some members will change their minds about whether there is a constitutional basis, I am convinced of how and why this is another story. But I would also call for us to vote against this opinion and give 34 an opportunity to talk about the essence of the Law which, I respect the opinion of colleague Majkić, may not be perfect, but I don't think it's such that some amendments can't be made perfect. And as for the Council of Ministers and Working Groups, which exists, no one prevents them from having a parallel conversation with this process, from taking their opinion out, and if there is a better proposal than this, the SDP Club is available to schedule a session 24 hours a day for seven days a week whenever it is settled and we get Map activation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16560	Thank you. Replica, deputy chairman of the House of Representatives, Milorad Živković. Here you go, three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16561	Thank you. I want to replicate to a respected colleague in a way that the Constitutional Commission could vote against the way in which this Law came into the procedure, all MPs would probably vote against. The way you discussed it convinced me that you actually didn't want to come up with a solution. What does it mean to you if everyone in the RS at the next session of the Constitutional Legal Commission votes to have constitutional principles then the principles of the Law are wrong, it's a negative opinion again. You didn't even try to convince us that here, to discuss that opinion is positive. Think about the essence, not the formalities. And to remind you, the way this Law came and the time it came, remember that there were protests here, it convinces us that you are in fact just the mere executioners of the task of the international community, that here in Parliament you are testing the balloons of your parties in a way that discusses nothing, because this discussion, if you want to withdraw responsibility, then you need to withdraw responsibility in the Council of Ministers. And that is why I propose a conclusion – it is up to the Council of Ministers to refer by the end of September to the Assembly procedure of the Law on the availability of immovable military property and the Law on State Property, and all in accordance with the Agreement we have signed, all in accordance with the agreement we have and to place responsibility if you may. If you can't stand up for nothing, don't talk, don't bother us here about who, what or how he says. If you may state your party's responsibility and civil responsibility together, we'll finish the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16562	Thank you. Replica, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16563	kolega Magazinović is aware that the BiH presidency has adopted BiH's path towards NATO, but that does not mean the moment the presidency brought the role that BiH should have fallen asleep as it did. We haven't done anything on the way to NATO, if so, it's for those who view 35 so generously towards NATO. Nothing was done what was to be done. And we've been talking about NATO and keeping it to the Ministry since 2006, so please don't lie to yourself, at a time when the most needed to be done at the head of the ministry was a member of the SDA, now he's from the SDP. So the responsibility is highest on them, so responsibility is on them why the ministry slept through this moment and why BiH is not ready. I'm talking about NATO and nothing to do is hypocrisy. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] About the referendum, about the referendum, please don't throw away, get up and replica, and I'll listen to you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16566	Replica, chairman, respected counterpart Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16567	Dear colleagues and colleagues. By formally looking at us today, we are voting on the negative opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission and I hope that we will reject that negative opinion. This issue is not a matter of day-to-day political nature and no doubt, respecting the other points of today's agenda, this is the most important point of today's House of Representatives session, and I don't think there should be any political vanity just because SDP and SBB MPs have proposed that we do not accept it today. Jest legislators of this Law are MPs, we from the SDP and MPs from the SBB, but the importance of this Law and its benefit are equal for all political parties, for all citizens and peoples in this country. And that's what 36 should have in mind. Support for this Law, I believe, will be more than 23, if not unanimous, here is except perhaps the Federation Party for BiH Club, but we expect that support from the RS as well. I believe the NATO people, the SDA, the EU, all of them support that we finally resolve this issue without any political vanity. Some have talked about the agreed principles of the leader, including that the SDP accepts something, rejects something. Our policy is a policy of continuity, but we should also keep in mind, when we talk about military and state property, what was the signature of six leaders. But afterwards, in July 2012, we have the Constitutional Court of BiH ruling and there is no further debate on state property without denying the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court. The problem is now in the definition of this state property. When the agreement was signed then it was said that what was prescribed or written by the High Representative, but by the Constitutional Court decision, which is no longer discussed, it is final and binding, state property is not only what serves BiH institutions but much more than that – and rivers, and riverbeds, public goods, sea and seabed, and traffic infrastructure, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16568	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16569	Yes, it says, Mrs. Majkić, in the Constitutional Court's decision, and there's no debate about it. We need to start by realizing that there is now a Constitutional Court decision and that there is no more solution than the Constitutional Court decisions of BiH. It's a very clear message that we need to send from this session today. Furthermore, counterpart Magazinović, head of the SDP club, rightly pointed to what the BiH presidency did. The BiH presidency has not established the daily-political objectives but rather the strategic foreign-political objectives of the BiH state. It's the EU and NATO. The Bureau is an authorised body for foreign policy management. It is not a problem for the Presidency, as it decides, to change the country's strategic foreign policy objectives, if it thinks it should and if it can. But until he changes, I guess we'll be spending what's in the interest of all of us. And I really think this is in the best interest of all people. What's the alternative, what would it mean if BiH stayed out of... streams? Where shall we, in what alliance, with whom? So we see the entire region – Croatia, Slovenia, Albania already in NATO, Montenegro and Macedonia have already opened the MAP, and Serbia has more, it seems to me, in recent years, done in this movement towards the NATO Alliance than BiH does. So, it would be good, really, some things to compare. We know what our country's strategic goals are and help. I think this will primarily help the BiH economy if we speed up that path towards NATO. This means stability, security and access to one market of 900 million marks. Who will come here to invest and help the poor in both Bosnian Herzegovina entities if we talk about secessions and withdrawals every month? Niko. But if we become a member of the NATO alliance, we will have as safe as other countries a lot more investors. So I'm going to take a look at this story, first of all, in the interest of the citizens of all and the people of this country and see what it means to us for.../a short cut video/... Replica, MP Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16570	Thank you, Chairman. As far as this law is concerned, here tomorrow we're going to refer the State Property Act here is no problem, we're going to solve this issue. ...we are not interested, of course, in what NATO and the EU think, we know what they expect from us, as people's and democratic parties, what we expect from the citizens of the RS. And the citizens of the RS expect us to see the closed door of the OHR. Niko of us here are naive, gentlemen, so let's believe you want us to solve one question and then keep the OHR still. No, we're ready tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, an extraordinary session, we can very easily solve all this together in the package. As for throwing dust in the eye around the referendum, you see SDS is a serious party and we citizens never, as a folk party, throw dust in the eyes unlike these leftists. We don't promise them a fight against corruption, a higher standard, etc. And then we forget all that and it gets worse. I'm thinking of both these left and right little lefties. And I'll also tell you that this referendum is part of the SDS and SNSD Platform. I, regardless of my opinion, what the citizens of the RS say, and be assured when this issue comes to the agenda that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will call a referendum to hear the citizens' position, because it is not the private position of any of us 14, and no matter what I mean privately, intimately, what the citizens of the RS say be certain, whatever it is that this Parliament is, we will stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16571	Thank you. Replica, MP Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16572	I, from a series of these replicas, actually didn't realize, when it came to my colleague Majkić, I didn't actually realize whether you were for NATO membership or not, and I would be very interested in that.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16573	kolega Sarajlić, if you're done with the president, let the MP continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16574	So, I didn't realize whether you're for NATO membership or you're against it, and I believe I'm not the only one who's interested in a very concrete response like that. As far as my colleague's conclusions are concernedŽivković we have the full willingness to discuss these conclusions only to be consistent, and he talked about the consistency and judgments of the Constitutional Court at the previous point, then that in these conclusions we should only incorporate the Constitutional Court's ruling regarding the property that the conclusion would be complete, nothing else. And maybe we can formulate it together. Therefore, as far as we are concerned, the involvement of the Council of Ministers in solving this problem is not welcome, but we do not need to discuss it. 38 And as for these, this referendum I'm still saying it's smoke bombs but a good way to show up, you show up at... Although it would be good for those who have opted for this way of political action that when they do something to take a little bit and read the first theory, then it goes a little bit as this practice goes and then be someone who when he talks about it everyone thinks he really rules that matter. So, theoretically, they say the referendum is to submit proposals for a new constitution, constitutional changes, some law or important political decision at the state, regional or local level depending on which level the issue is concerned. So the definition is a referendum. And from there you go, and then you go on, and you work, and you read, and you see how it happens everywhere in the world and then you come and... And as far as NATO is concerned, when you're already dragging me into the language, you're the first person to run and beg people to vote for NATO and the same people you're waving at today in front of those referendums that question NATO's path to BiH at all, even though it's a member of the presidency, if I'm not mistaken, from your party, who voted for BiH's commitment to NATO. Here, you were alive to see, if you ever come to this, you'll be the loudest one to vote for NATO and explain to them what's good and what's of interest, among other things, to the Serbian people in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16575	Thank you. Replica, MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16576	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I have stood up to replicate on a part of the discussions they aim to now in the same package, so in this law they bring together state and, part of state and military property called immovable military property, so all state property and part of this state property called immovable military property. And after the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina's ruling on the subject, it is not possible because state property is something much wider. There are two types of state property, which is a reflection of sovereignty, territorial integrity, the international subjectivity of BiH that requires special regulation, which was partly spoken of by the dom in its discussion, and those assets that represent certain things - mobile and immovable, which serve various levels of government to perform their jobs and functions. And this question we have here today, so this law, because of the need for NATO's country's accession to the alliance. And since it would be best if we could register these 63 locations in the state and continue with our NATO through and the issue of other military assets and total state property continue to regulate as required by the Constitutional Court's decision. This Act, apart from this property that is necessary for NATO, includes a part of the property called immovable, non-perspective military property and is deployed in a certain way, or empowers the Council of Ministers to deploy this property. And believe me, I'm familiar with the concrete procedure of how these solutions happened, and I know that all of this together at one point was not at all controversial in BiH. And it's my impression that, when it comes to this property, you're constantly 39-pointing some new demands. And when that's over then some new demands are re-conceived, because I think it's actually a relationship to the NATO alliance. And I just want to say a few more words about it. So, I think that all those who have a reservation against NATO accession are wrong in BiH. NATO's alliance is in the interest of all of us within BiH, because NATO's alliance is not only a military alliance, it's both economical and political and security, and every other alliance, and it can only be in the interest of all of us living in this country and all levels of government in this country. And I'd like to think about it one more time. I think we are missing a big opportunity when it comes to the future and development and BiH and all of us living in BiH. And when it comes to referendums, don't make a referendum because this is a state matter. NATO, the issue of NATO is a state matter and if we talk about a referendum then it can only be a state referendum. Any other statement can be some kind of poll, but it can't be a referendum and it can't have the significance of this referendum. And I ask you to focus on solving this issue, to finally get a solution to this law, to give it a chance and finally to shut down our NATO path. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16577	Thank you. Another replica, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16578	Well, I'm sorry that Honorable colleague Magazinović ran away from here after giving us reading and reading lessons, so I would, for the sake of the record, probably pass on to him, advise him to read the Law on the RS referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16579	Thank you. Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16580	I am sorry that my colleague Magazinović is not here, so let me tell him, not only is he a member of the presidency but the National Assembly of the RS has also made a decision to meet NATO standards. So, we should go towards it, work on it, because it's a standard that obliges us to be modern, to work on a plan that we should work on, not to sit down and keep the Ministry of Defense in a state where it is, and we just want to join NATO. But what it does not, which also stands, is that no political party, no matter who it was, can make a decision to enter and vote on RS going to NATO. So, it can't, it's a decision, however you claim and what you claim RS will plead because the people who live there have an obligation to say if they're going to the organization that bombed him or whatever you're talking about. It's an emotional thing. It's unacceptable for you because you don't have the experience, but we have it, and we're going to make a statement about it no matter what level you're making the referendums. 40 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16581	House Chairman, distinguished counterpart Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16582	I would prefer to focus my energy on more concrete things than debate whether an administrative territorial unit within the BiH state can hold a referendum or not. What we do know, perhaps someone in the Federation, and in the Federation, they want to hold a referendum on the NATO Pact. I can wish for that, but the Federation of BiH as an entity in the BiH state cannot hold any referendum on the whole BiH state. And it would be good if we put an end to that debate as soon as possible. So, the referendum of anyone who is tied to the state as a whole is impossible to implement in the Brcko District, one or another entity. Is there anyone who can move unilaterally into such a kind of referendum? Well, yes, but what are the effects of that? None. Here's the Law on the availability of state property adopted by the RS entity assembly. What's the matter? They lost time in both the Assembly and we here, it's anti-constitutional and finished talking. It is known what the outcome of such a referendum would be. That is why it would be better to focus on what is real, which is in line with the Constitution and that would bring us a little closer to these Euro-Atlantic integrations. Replica, deputy chairman, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16583	Thank you. Whether it has the right for the RS to organise a referendum on anything, so here is the NATO accession – there is. And no one will deny it or disable it. The mechanisms after which she will make her referendum decision to implement leave us, the machanism and these 14 MPs here today discussing military property. So, let's finish this story, leave us the mechanisms and let us do what the citizens tell us to do in the referendum. Dot. Let me tell you -- NATO doesn't want BiH and don't let us talk about not going to NATO in BiH. Serbia is 10 digs in the MAP above BiH. And if it were a question of Serbia, she would have joined NATO rather than BiH. The question of mujahedin, the question of terrorists, the question of thousands of things here in BiH that we haven't solved that you don't want to mention at all, you don't want to talk about people who are fighting outside there, and that it's NATO standard, we haven't even opened up here in BiH. So let's not talk about things that don't stand, let's get to the bottom of this -- what we're here -- that's a negative opinion. Let's get back to the Commission if we can get back to the Commission and then put in charge of the Council of Ministers as I suggest and the Club of the SNSD, so we can put people in charge. And fellow Magazinović, who wrote there the Law on State Property, I guess the Council of Ministers will be so much, to say that it respects the Constitutional Court's decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16584	Thank you. Another replica, Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16585	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'd like to say at first that I support these, a proposal for the conclusions of the distinguished Mr. Živković. And to be clear once, I have said here several times – that the best proposal comes two political, three, four, all Federation political parties if they haven't consulted any RS parties immediately cause animosity and some suspicion that it's not something wrong. I begged you at the previous few sessions to get rid of it. Find one of your conversators and ask if this is acceptable as we suggest. And only such proposals can get a pass-by in Parliament. Now for the referendum. Oh, my people, I know that everyone gets a rash when they think of the word and hear the referendum, but it was, not him, and once we take down that anthem and intend to mention more of the referendum, the decision of the National Assembly of the RS will oblige representatives from the RS in this Parliament to make a statement, will be made by a member of the Presidency. But when we come to order, in one 20 years, to be members of the NATO Pact, I think that NATO will make a pact of all these regimes that bother him, as already threatened by Syria, and that they will end it all, so that it will be unnecessary for us to fight to go to the NATO Pact because there will be no more need for that alliance, because they have killed everything. That's it first. Well, do you now approve of the intervention down on that Syria unfortunate, I don't know, everything they are, and look what they did in Iraq. Today when we sit here, 50 people will die. I'm sorry about one kid who gets killed, but they're gonna die because they left the system out of order. Wherever they intervened ten thousand times was a worse situation before it was when they spoke of autocrats ruled. Sadam Husein, who was an absoluteist, who gave nothing, ruled Gadafi who, so Belgrade students, had 4,000 marks of scholarship. They're fighting down there today, they don't know if that Morsi guy's gonna leave, or if I don't know anybody else and what's gonna happen to that country he doesn't have. Now, to preserve our country in this stability that is good, was, not a referendum you intend to tell more stories and, rather, let's agree on as much as possible. I'm telling you now, I won't be an MP, I may not be either, and I won't, I won't be alive for sure when we're supposed to enter the NATO Pact, but my children won't want a NATO pact, because the NATO pact bombed my Hadžićan four times as much today as in any municipality. The NATO pact has killed those unfortunate priests at the Palaces that are still today, the NATO Pact has done wonders here. And you intend to do more than once and the OHR. No matter what they bring, nor can they lift the RS, here I am, the Messenger's Nightingale, and I pray to Bog to be relieved. Who's asking more questions? No one. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16586	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16587	Thank you, Mr. President. Finally, the debate has come to an end, and I hope that the situation will calm down a little after my debate. Instead of catching up with the moments that bring us some short-term political 42 benefits, some political points, and not contributing to the long-term benefits of this country and its peoples and citizens, it would be better to focus on how to solve things, how to travel a path that will lead to an effective solution to the problems that are numerous, and some of them are also the subject of this debate. As far as we from HDZ are concerned, of course, they are not disputed principles of this Law and we are prepared to support them. We have reserves, however, according to the way these principles were realised and we also have reserves according to the scope covered by these solutions. In fact, the agreement of political party leaders is an informal agreement, however, in our real political situation, it is very important. And we think it was necessary to follow the path that was routed and to the extent to which it was agreed, in that agreement, through that working group, to get long-term better results and effects for this country, as well as for its path of course towards NATO, but not just towards NATO. Here we meet once again with advocating a partial approach, as well as in that previous case when we talked about the other negative opinion. A partial approach that she says, I'll only accept the part that suits me, and the part that doesn't suit me, I'll leave it for later or maybe never. And these are these short-term political points that this or that political option today on this, tomorrow on the other hand, can, of course, draw out in the eyes of its public with some electoral body, whose votes it looks forward to, but from which this country ultimately has no use, but rather, only harm. Here I am, inclined to, with what I have said, so that the HDZ BiH is ready to support the principles of this Law, I am nevertheless inclined to appeal to this more comprehensive approach and for this reason I also support Mr. Živković's initiative, the conclusion proposed by Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16588	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16589	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers. Here is another unresolved political issue in BiH that took place on the agenda of the two club representatives' initiative. One question that has been trying to reach political arrangements for several years, but here is the final solution. We discussed everything here today except the Law itself and the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. It's not on the agenda, but as if it's on the agenda, we've been discussing a review of the decision of all BiH institutions, that BiH is seeking and that it wants to join NATO and that it will seek to meet all conditions on this path and we will not accept ourselves in NATO, but when we meet the conditions, then NATO will say – you have met the conditions, so here you can, if you want. So I didn't understand, I didn't hear, I wasn't informed that any competent institution had changed that strategic foreign policy commitment to BiH, but we discussed it a lot today. 43 This is a good example, so this is a good example of how some things shouldn’t be done. But before I say anything about the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which is apparently different from that of the earlier one, which is essentially the same as the egg. And you can see that the Constitutional Commission is also struggling, and I have to say, this is how it would spell out the obscenities that aren't very common in our way of expression, so we say that it didn't determine that the bill was, etc. in accordance with the Constitution. I guess it found that it did not comply with the Constitution, should be said openly.... But you haven't found out, and be careful, we're playing hide-and-seek here. I'm just showing this how we play different gymnastics, so that something we write, something different, basically, is clear what's said. And take responsibility, that you said, means the Constitutional Commission, I don't care at all how anyone in the Committee voted. The commission said this was not in line with the BiH Constitution. I don't agree with that, but I respect that there are those who think so, I respect that. Constitutionally again, he said he did not accept the principles of this Law, and then there was an argument. How much we talked about today about the importance of this Law for expected it was that we had one 150 pages of reasoning in which we explained why, this has no constitutional basis, why it is not in accordance with the Constitution, so that the rest of us know why it is not in accordance with the Constitution and why these principles and which of these principles are not in line, are not welcome, are not good, so that we others know, maybe we would support this negative opinion. I will never, in principle, support these opinions again, no matter what I may be and may agree essentially with them, but these opinions, this is a humiliation to all of us here, that we are pleading, we are discussing, now this is, these two sentences, as many here have said, about such an important matter essentially raises questions and the point of view of those, is this really an important question for them. And why are we discussing 2.5 hours of such a simple question, such a lame question, because this finding, these sentences are so lame, that the question becomes meaningless. Thirdly, is this a strategic commitment in BiH's foreign policy, meaning joining NATO? As far as I know, it is. And to be honest, I myself, as one time chairing this House in various international communications representing this House, mentioned two key foreign policy definitions of BiH – the EU and NATO. Now I'm thinking, now I'm myself... am I lying to this, was I falsely representing this House? Did I represent myself there when I was saying this to my colleagues here today, sitting here in Parliament, meeting with various official acts, I am convinced that they are repeating these same things. If that is such an important question, and I think it is, then the next question goes – why is this question only important for SDP and SBB? I ask my colleagues from the SDP, colleagues from the SBB – why didn't you offer someone else to join you in the initiative? What did you usurp for yourself? What do you think that's just your question? As far as I know from the HDZ, BiH has not offered anyone to join you in this initiative. Well, that's where we come in, that's where the problem comes in. I'm going back to some legal solutions that some of us, for some reason, rushed on their noses to propose, so we've all been dealing with these, in fact, are not complex questions. This is a slightly more complex question, but if we were more concerned with this in preparation, perhaps even the debate might be a little different. It's possible that some solutions, I'm not going to talk here at all now about concrete solutions to the law itself because, you can't state in the law, those who have ever written the law, the number of any decision, the law doesn't tolerate it. So, but I won't, I won't talk about the text of the law, so I'm talking about the principles that bring us here to discuss five hours and we know the results in advance. The result is these two sentences. However we do today, we can and negatively plead to the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission for every reason. Someone because they think that like me, that this opinion should have been on one 150 page 44 if it's negative. Someone because they don't agree with a negative opinion at all, so whatever it says here, that's why it's going to be. But if the Constitutional Commission and all of us act together as in the previous case, and we just change the date on this paper again, and everything else stays the same, I'm afraid if it makes sense, we're wasting unnecessary time. And next time, we'll discuss it just like we didn't discuss it today. We'll discuss it again if, by any chance, we return this opinion to the Constitutional Commission. Because I'm convinced that the Constitutional Commission won't change its mind, so I'm sure they won't, and they'll deliver the same paper again. The question arises why on a matter of this importance, which I do, and I know there is an agreement, so we can say it formal and informal, party leaders, why didn't this important issue get its finals through the Council of Ministers? And we all have our own information, and we all know that there's some working group, and we all know that every single one of our sources, so we don't have information from one source, so they say that one member is obstructing, and then they say that the other one is obstructing, so we're not going to be in a position to take the initiative on such complex issues and yet in a way that they usurp the right to have such an important question, that only two political parties deal with it. It's not a good trip, it's not a good solution. I'm convinced that through a solution like this we can only complicate, but the solution I'm sure won't come. And that the issue of military property and perspective, and especially inspective, should have been resolved five years ago, should have been clear to all of us. And we should make every effort to find a way to resolve it at last. Why? We killed ourselves protecting the interests of our citizens, our people, our municipalities, our cantons, our entities, etc. We have dozens of institutions and BiH, but probably lower levels of government, I know in the Federation that that's how they pay millions' rents to use some other space. We have so many needs and at lower levels, that certain things are organized better and we have, that we have one object that's falling shame would be. We have dozens of objects that fail and we all know about, that we don't really deal with defence and security issues much, but we know that it's going to be even more of a disaster while we're arguing like this in the hollow. And nobody cares, they lose value every day. Investing in their reconstruction and reconstruction, bringing in someone new... will only cost more. Who? The citizens we take care of. And it would be good if we went a little bit differently to worry or if we didn't worry like this, maybe it would make your citizens a little bit relieved. But indeed, here I appeal, I appeal to try to avoid such things in the future. These are very serious matters of interest for the whole of BiH, privatising for the needs of one or two parties. And I'd love to, but it doesn't mean a lot to us, and when the Council of Ministers delivers a proposal, we've seen it in the past, when these things would mostly go through the Council of Ministers, surely they should, should come, expect to get a faster pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16590	Thank you. Replica MP Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16591	Thank you. Well, I don't tend to rephrase Mr. Lozančić, because I generally agree with everything he stands for, and that is correct and reasoned and without any bias and one man who has credibility in this House. But let me take a look at his findings as to why 45 we don't have this bill from the Council of Ministers or other laws. Well, because we don't have a coalition that works. Because we operate at a technical level both in Parliament and in the Council of Ministers. Because they run political games under different coats, how to cheat the other one, how to plant something on him, how to pin it on someone. And right now, to be clear, what is this law? This law is not in the procedure today to be adopted, but to send a message to Riker or I don't know which of the American diplomats should come here to visit, to say – see, we are in favour of doing what you are looking for, and those Srbin there from the RS, they do not give. That is the purpose of this Law, so you know that you thought we would vote for this Law, one of you would ask us – what do you think, let's agree on how to vote on this Law together? But that wasn't the point, I'm not even sure, I don't think you'd even like to pass that law. So I think we've spent in vain, how much discussion is being held about this law, surely, certainly two hours in advance, knowing the outcome. And that's pure politics by the proposer. And not to mention this speech that Mr. Magazinović gave, which probably, this Law is the basis for that kind of viewing. And let me make it clear to you, brother, I think we all understand that about the referendum, if the RS Parliament decides according to the RS law, to carry out a referendum on any matter, it will implement it and there is no way that anyone else can prevent it. What will be the result, who will vote afterwards in the Presidency, how, how, how there will be a vote here, who will adopt what the people think and what they have expressed as their will in the referendum, that is a very different matter. Here we are as a party we proposed a few days ago to organise a referendum on the Law on the Study of Origin of Assets. So I didn't hear anyone from the Federation say - you can't hold a referendum...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16592	Replication time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16593	...about this we can. So, dare you, you'll see that we can, you'll see. Therefore, this is a pointless debate, as is the motion for no use, as the outcome was well known to the promoters themselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16594	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16595	Well, like the replica, that's the answer. I must say, I'm not a respected colleague of Bosić's at all understood that you've replicated something to me. You've confirmed the good part, the good part one more time, and you've explained some of the elements of my debate that I haven't been very long on, and I all agree with what you've said. So I understand you agree with me. Well, I'm appealing to solve these problems right now. It's clear, it's clear. And we have a bill of law from the Council of Ministers and we don't ask, there's no majority, you gave the answer. So we have a bill of law from the parliamentary majority, but from one part of the parliamentary majority, just one part. I asked 46 why. Because it's exactly how you talk. So, there is a parliamentary majority on any technical, I don't know what basis either, and I have to say, I will refrain in the future from any criticism of any Council of Ministers' move or from making any demands to the Council of the Minsiter, because there is no Council of Ministers that can function under these conditions. So this isn't a personal question, we weren't dealing with the basic political assumption that any personal composition, any one of which can deliver something to us here and say that it knows that, with any kind of repair, why there are MPs in Parliament, certain things will go through. In us as a rule, it means that things that come from the Council of Ministers don't usually go away, so we don't have to be surprised that they don't pass from the MPs. So, come on, I'm appealing to it, so we try to establish certain principles, certain rules of conduct, and try to include in the essential issues all agents, from both entities and all three peoples. So I think that then the solutions will be better quality, and that they will get a much easier and much better passage here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16596	Thank you. Replica, MP Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16597	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would just say here that, on the opinion given by the Constitutional Commission, it is absolutely unacceptable to assume that it has no constitutional basis. And to another conclusion, if this was politics I would ask one question – is politics the signed March 2012 agreement, six leaders, that this will be implemented and a promise to the citizens to go towards the map of the road, i.e. to meet the condition for the map of the road? This is an attempt to get the Law into the Parliamentary Assembly to discuss this and to normally involve all parties and to participate in this debate and to reach the best solution. A year and a few days were to be initiated an initiative to address this problem, and six leaders signed the dispute that this would be resolved in March 2012. Should it have waited 10 years for this issue to come to the Assembly, regardless of how it will be resolved, but it is possible for all together and through the amendment phase to influence and reach the solution where six leaders and signed and based an agreement in the formation of a parliamentary majority in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16598	Thank you. Replica, MP Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16599	Here, to say to Dr. Đugum that I agree, exactly, politics is that some people have signed an agreement and it is the party leaders, how to resolve two important issues in BiH – the issue of military and state property. And that's politics from those who when they put their signature and went outside, turned the story and sought a way and referred the appeal to the Constitutional Court, as they signed, 47 is not in line with the Constitution. It's politics. Just as politics is this way to propose a law that is predetermined by its destiny and which we are already talking about here for three or four hours and one and the other is politics. And here in this, in common bodies, here in this Assembly, 80% of the time here is politics, 80%, and there are people who are rightly critical of us. It's not the MPs, the two of us and the rest of us here to blame. It's the reality of BiH, it's the reality of different concepts where we argue here by pretending that we're negotiating something, without any sincere desire to find a solution that is acceptable to everyone. And that's the essence of our problem here. And this will, if it goes on like this, probably another couple of years, lead to an even deeper crisis, and then ask everyone what we're going to do? So the only way out of this situation is to find an agreement that's acceptable to everyone. But here you can't find an agreement within the Federation to choose two members of the presidency. Because they don't want to, and they don't want each other to understand what their problem is and they don't want to make any concessions, counting on him to lose his voice in the upcoming elections. If you can't make it within the Federation, if two partners can't agree, how will three partners agree? Because that, that's a problem that's not linear, that's an exponential problem. With three partners, it's nine times harder to make a deal than two partners. Thus, there is a need here to change the philosophy of politics, the awareness of politicians and the consciousness of the people. And don't think, as I understand what you're saying, you're saying what you think people expect you to talk about. That's how it is, and I don't blame you for that you do politics, and you want to win some points out of hope. I'm not saying it's not our case, we're all politicians here, but don't pretend to be naive that we don't understand why we can't make a deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16600	The replica was reported by Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, but according to my record, you had both discussion and two replicas, and the precise one is here and matches... I don't know if it matches your records or if you typed that we didn't keep records? Ambassador Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16601	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I've had the need to report for the replica several times, but here I've decided not to cause certain problems or new replicas, so I'm going to try to focus through the discussion and say that today's Law that is here before us, or the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, and we're not even discussing it, we're discussing the essence of the law, and I'm not going to stick to the strict principle, and then I'm going to say some things too. First of all, if you will, and before, it's always been if you want something to fail, then form a commission. So recently, and in these three years of mandates that we, the good number of MPs elected here, have been trying to impose certain bill proposals that they know in advance won't pass, but only to put them here to show to their voters or those who have lobbyed for it, how they fight to make something, want to propose and adopt, but always to seek the culprit, it's someone who comes from the RS and that someone who disagrees. For which purposes and needs, I remember this well and the Law on Single Parent Number and some other laws, so when you do not want 48 to come to a specific law that is of interest to the citizens of BiH, then it would be good for both entities, from all political parties together with the ministry to find a joint proposal that can objectively pass. And to propose the laws that we're going to discuss here today for two or three hours, which we know in advance won't go through is pure politics and we should, sometimes we get embarrassed because we're wasting our time on things that are completely irrelevant, useless, at least for those citizens who chose us. If we swear in BiH and ask to build that state, then you must respect that it is composed of two entities and a district and that the interests of both of us must be matched in order to reach certain solutions. If the Presidency and the National Assembly have made a decision that this map is on its way to NATO to be fulfilled, etc., we are going in that direction to meet our obligations, and now that we have made the decision to join NATO today, NATO would not want to accept us. And we in the RS can never accept such a decision until the National Assembly has spoken objectively about it. And the National Assembly will never accept that until it has checked the opinion and attitude of the citizens for all the representatives, MPs from the RS, put forward. Therefore, people suggest a referendum, here are proposals and initiatives to hold a referendum on much smaller, insignificant and irrelevant things and no one opposes. It seems that individuals in the head are present – the referendum is the notion of secession. So whenever you mention a referendum then it is thought that the RS is going towards, as soon as you allow it any kind of referendum, we fear there will be no referendum tomorrow in which the RS will secede. Therefore, let us not identify the referendum, attitude and opinion of citizens with everything and everything. Why, what Mr. Živković was also talking about, other MPs from the RS, why when six leaders agreed to resolve both military and state property together, and why we didn't go to the meeting together, so that we could work it out together, agree to take down some of these obligations that lead us to the EU and other integration memberships. But in order for those guests who are staying here today or these days, here we are from certain political parties putting it on the agenda, but unfortunately they don't understand us. We, who will receive 10,000 soldiers from whom there are about 4-5 thousand elders? Who needs us like that? We're not that interesting or significant at all. But it also doesn't oblige us, or it obliges us to see in some way that we are creating rationally that number of soldiers that are meant to be. That the property is available, that it is resolved in a quality way, that certain storage facilities are not purchased, if we already have military assets that are inoperable, which should be given to be deployed. What's the problem? The RS gives its property wherever it can to the municipalities. What is now the problem that from the level of BiH is that according to entities something that objectively has no big need, no interest in BiH. For these reasons, I think, if we want to move forward, if we want to join the EU, then we must respect attitudes and entities. The referendum, whether it happened or not, is a lot of ways in which if RS citizens are not satisfied, we from the RS can stop certain things both through the Presidency and through Parliament. To avoid this, let us include the ministries and come to a solution. I think it's a much better way, if you want to, if you don't want politics. If we're going to do politics, and it's a little early, a little more years, there's more than a year until the election, then I'm going to try some more with some friends to prepare a 50-acre bill, which we're going to put into procedure. It will be good for all the basis of the constitution, and they will not be accepted. Then we'll just waste our time. And 49 for that reason, one little suggestion to all legislators who go with laws and initiatives, who they know in advance won't pass, to give it up, to do a better job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16602	Thank you. Drago Kalabić had two replicas, but he left for the final discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16603	I apologize, Chairman, for spending those replicas in that initial debate and yes, but here I was all along following and people said what, less, could be said about it. But I'm only obliged to point out one fact that as a member of the Expansive College I participated in several hours of debates when we were trying to make these arguments, which we made here today, kind of acceptable to everyone so that we wouldn't have this situation today, and unfortunately it didn't work out. And we talked about it, and there's a lot of times when this question came up, when we asked that through the Council of Ministers and in some way implemented an agreement that, here's what fellow MPs from the SBB say, because they're getting out of context. So, a complete deal has been agreed between political leaders, it is not certainly agreed to be implemented through these two parliamentary clubs. I wasn't involved in the deal, but I know it wasn't agreed, but it was agreed to be done through the Council of Ministers. And then you can't arrange for you to implement the deal. So no, then we are, because we have no problem with the essence of this law. We haven't, and we haven't told you that, but we have a problem with the way, and we're trying to bend these agreements from which, of course, you always take what's right for anyone or for your daily needs, or what someone here has noticed well, the need for courtship or that grief, so we're not to blame for having friends there teachers, they're others and I don't know either. And I'm sorry that these efforts didn't bear fruit and that every time this is confirmed, here's what my colleague Tomić and everyone else said, that it's really a waste of time, that these positions are exactly the same, and that surely in the course of the debate no one will convince anyone to change. But that's how it is, and I'm saying we didn't do it because we tried to at the Expanded College, that SNSD respects the principle that the parties that, well, this is right and this is who someone said, which makes up here some technical group, so I'm going to call it, that at least they don't make this kind of problem. But here's the thing, we didn't even make it, even though we were trying to solve these things at the Expansive College, and that's when our session loses purpose when you have this situation, because if we had better prepared a session there we wouldn't have had this situation. And that's up to us, that's the fact that it's up to the parties that make up this some technical arrangement at BiH level. And of course, as far as the referendum is concerned, it is clear that the referendum will be. I'm ready for the bookies right now to bet that there will be a referendum. And whoever thinks, here's what we can do, because, who is, how, when, about what questions. _________(?) What's the quota? 50 About that then, big, maximum quota, here's the maximum. As much as possible and allowed, it will be, because history teaches us that no one has ever stopped it. If no one had ever stopped him, nowhere where two people didn't understand each other, so by mistake it was where it was being prevented by force, so it didn't work, and especially where it's verbal, the less they succeeded everywhere. Who am I to prevent the will of the people and who am I to claim that what is inalienable is the right of the people to be or not to be. I'm just saying evaluations. It is exclusively the people who exercise their right to a referendum, not politicians, no, political parties can have views, MPs and others, and that is inalienable. And the moment the people decide it will be because so far it has been every time, find an example when it has failed. Every time. Whether it was politically clever, cost-effective, like this, but it was inalienable, and it worked everywhere. I'm telling you, when I watched medical treatment as a layman, why the patient is being treated with that shock therapy, I don't understand, so I asked – so you're killing a man. When he jumps on him, he has a stroke, whatever he's got, they jump and hit him with some kind of shock means, which is what I don't know, I'm surprised what they're doing to a man. No, it says – there must be shock therapy for him to survive. I claim such a means and you need it. If BiH had a precise definition of a referendum, the situation in BiH would be significantly relaxed. Significantly relaxed. This is exactly the kind of situation that creates tensions, because, like that, do you remember that soldier's statement in Slovenia -- who's foll, says, we came to defend something, and who's folling like they're trying to break off. The sentence applies to all places and applies to BiH as well. And it will be the same, because he told a human folk sentence that unfortunately history showed that he was telling the truth, telling the truth. He just said from the soul what he felt. That's why I personally think, personally, I think that a much better relaxing situation would be when, and no one is crazy about wanting evil and asking for it up and asking for it, every nation is smart enough, reasonable enough to make a reasonable decision about its fate and certainly not looking for a worse solution. So does anyone think the Serbian people are crazy and they're going to look for a worse solution by themselves? If someone offers him any better, he's not crazy that he won't pick it better. And then a lot of people would try to offer better solutions. And now we have a situation – it's going to be like this because it can't be different. If the choice was possible, everyone would act sober and think about it if it could be different, but why would it be different, why wouldn't it be the smartest? Why wouldn't we want to? to seek the smartest solution that is in the interest of all, and not to cement it and say: "Taste it this way, and when you look around us no one has endured." Unfortunately or fortunately, no one put up with it, everyone did what they thought and ended it the way they thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16605	Thank you. Replica, Ismet Dervoz. Here you go, first replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16606	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Just a few sentences. It's just very difficult, after these few hours of talking about everything just not what we were supposed to talk about, not at least tell your personal attitude and what I know will be the finding of most of those who read the minutes from this session. Let us read 51 distinguished colleagues and colleagues of the record, see exactly what we have said, what we have talked about and what the findings in this Parliamentary Assembly today were. We call for a deal, we ask why we didn't ask each other, and at the same time we hear sentences we'll never accept it because they did this to us or to us. We call for arrangements that were made by those who were supposed to make arrangements, so we can do it. They agreed that we would not agree, obviously, because otherwise we would not wait a year and a half for any proposal that should enter this Parliamentary Assembly. We're the technical majority. We may have, but someone from that technical majority or minority should make at least a small move or at least a small step, so that at least we can start talking about what we don't want to talk about and at least show who doesn't want to solve the problems that must be discussed in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We did not participate in the agreement, but does not mean that we do not respect everything agreed by those in the technical or any other majority if it is in the interest of the citizens of BiH and some of our futures. Is this finally a confirmation that we are coming to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to stay until next election year, and then to start talks like this? I call upon distinguished colleagues and colleagues, all together let us carefully read the minutes of the debate on this agenda point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16607	Maybe it's better if we don't read it. Thank you. I'm closing the debate within the seventh item of the agenda. We're moving to the eighth item of the agenda, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in BiH – Proposers: MPs Lazar Prodanović, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović and Azra Hadžiahmetović (first reading) The draft law in the procedure was delivered on 22.07.2013. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis and principles on 28.08.2013. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Commission report from the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Volunteering – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (the law in first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16611	Thank you. The report was made extensive and presented all the problems that it had to do with these things. Unfortunately, the situation described is not good in agriculture. If we were to hold on to the debate on this point as far as we're concerned, it might be a good idea if the conclusions were made in this direction brought by the Commission. So I agree entirely with these three conclusions, with what I suggest setting deadlines. Because as we know, I have directed an initiative to establish a payment system at BiH level to meet the Council of Ministers, i.e. the chairman, resolution ministers and two prime ministers, because it is only up to them to meet and end it. However, the initiative of the fourth month that I set out for it has not yet been done. So, the Council of Ministers, or the Chairman, and this time again, I would like to remind the Council of Ministers, three resolution ministers at the level of the entity and at the level of BiH and two prime ministers of the entity and that this issue can be resolved, because this is a very important issue. EU funds approved for agriculture, so some 25 to 30m euros will be missed next year if we do not establish this. And this part of the opinion of the Committee, I say in what way I now conclude here, I don't know in which direction that, because this is a very important question and these three key conclusions are very important and precise and accurate, I agree with them, only in what way, here is the chairman of the Committee, in which way, whether they can determine the exact terms as soon as possible when it comes to the execution of these conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16612	Thank you. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16613	Here, I have a need for a kind of further clarification, Mr. nešković is there, the man is in progress and will be able to explain. Of course, I welcome what we have put on the agenda today and this topic, so these are the priority topics which, unfortunately, we rarely discuss. I don't know if it makes any sense to remind myself that two years ago we asked to discuss this economic situation in BiH, a proposal for measures, etc. 53 So my question is, that is, the request for clarification is, in the report that is quite correct and introduces man into trouble, there are indications of the status of execution. I see the report was made in May, and these measures, i.e. the status of execution, are likely to have some changes in the meantime, and I'm invited to ask this. We have behind this point – a proposal for the conclusions of our Commission on European integration, where, among other things, alarmed, that we have already lost 5m euros from IPA, grants from IPA funds, that there is a serious and real danger that we will lose far greater funds for 2014 to 2020, which are also intended for the agriculture sector. As far as I could understand, we didn't create this strategic rural development plan, and we haven't established any other structures, etc. Well, of course, when there's an opportunity and if Mr. nešković is able to explain a little bit to us, especially the implementation of these measures, and what about this situation is related to these lost money and this assessment that we will practically fall out of the ability of the 2014-20 grant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16614	Thank you. The word is from MP Borislav Bojić and the chairman of our Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16615	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you. Of course, when these topics are on the table, I wish the gym was fuller. Obviously, the public is much less interested in these topics, even though we are all ready to sometimes say that the situation in industry, agriculture, economy, administration, etc., is something that is alarming and that we need to pay special attention to. Now, judging by his mood for special attention to this subject, apparently that this kind of mood, unfortunately, does not exist. I want, first of all, as a man and as an MP, to point out one fact, no matter how biased it may be, so be it, I am taking the opportunity to commend among other Minister Šarović, the man who really gave an additional one in this area, as it is now said, an impulse in these affairs and not only him, but also the people who work in agencies. It seems to me that they have really made an additional effort to at least do what can be done in the area of agriculture to try to do. It's not enough what's done, there's certainly a lot of things that are far more and better done. In this regard, there were several discussions when we discussed the 2011 Report when we referred to certain issues, and I am grateful to the Resoring Ministry, since a report on the implementation of the conclusions of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs was delivered to the Commission at the meeting itself, which we provided during the review of the Agriculture Report for 2011. It seems to me that this is one good basis for a debate on the Commission itself, but certainly this Parliament should not avoid one thematic debate, perhaps even wider, that we may also consider other issues related to industry and agriculture certainly. I am now not going to enter into the very content of views, answers, of pointing to the problems encountered in resolving those conclusions that Parliament has adopted, which should have come to a solution when it comes to blue diesel and many other issues, because it would simply require a far-reaching 54-wide evaluations, and ultimately there is no point in having a debate on this report now for the simple reason why it was not the topic of debate on the Commission itself and was not here in the Parliamentary Assembly of this Report. And that is why I think it would be good for this kind of thematic debate to be held on the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, and then I certainly expect, if of course there is an interest in the MPs, and it should be, that this issue should be discussed among other things here in the House of Representatives itself. A few sentences about this report itself. Indeed, the report, as such, is written that the facts are what they are. Now it's impossible for some of them to change, there's simply data they've given us. The technology of writing the Report, unlike some other reports that we have had the opportunity to see here, is good for me, not to praise it too much, and it seems to me that it gives me quite enough information that you can look at the basic things that apply to agriculture and, of course, especially agencies that are in business and in the agriculture sector. What is good, which is very often achieved consensus at all levels of government regarding the problem facing the area of agriculture. The proposal for these conclusions, which the Commission has identified, is something that I support as an MP, of course, and I have voted on, and I want to say that these are certainly the conclusions that I believe will support the other MPs in Parliament. One of the important topics that was on the Commission, and I want to do so and discuss, is the issue of agriculture that is in serious trouble both in the Brcko District and in the whole of BiH. In fact, I don't think there are any development strategies in agriculture. Why am I bringing up the issue of strategy now? There are various strategies at certain levels of government, there may not be sufficient coordination, there is part of decisions taken at BiH level, there is, of course, part of decisions taken at entity level. In this respect, such a type of strategy should work on certain institutions that can objectively make a strategy. Speaking of this issue, we know that very often when institutes do this here, whether in the RS, the Federation or anywhere in BiH, there are often qualifications, I don't know, for example. Aleksa Milojević, Institute, so this qualification is based on that name, not on the content he offers or I don't know Professor Jakšić, or anyone else in BiH. I'm talking about those people I know because I know they're doing certain questions and suggestions about possible strategies. What is a strategic commitment, what is happening in BiH, is obvious that all the parcels are depreciated, that they produce goods that cannot be competitive countries that objectively, when it comes to the production of goods, can offer it far, far better. Let's say, I don't know, when it comes to... cereals, when you look at what they're doing in Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Serbia, anywhere, simply, when it comes to the premises of any of BiH, they can't even get close to competing with those countries. In fact, what the distinguished counterpart Bursać was saying at the Commission itself, the question is, since the number of labour not engaged and the issue of strawberry fruit and all where far greater labour engagement is needed is something, but that I do not engage in that part of the problem should certainly be directed in that direction. I don't really know what direction this is going to go, but I do know for sure that there is a need to discuss the issue of the strategy in agriculture far more and that this kind of strategy is subject to discussion at all levels of government and to reach consensus about it. After all, if the Francuz were able to reach a consensus long ago that the 55 area of agriculture would be subsidized by almost 50%, and that their processing industry would be tied to agriculture and today they would be, for example, leaders in the area of agriculture, and agriculture is also in these areas. I'm not sure it's this farm that's present in BiH today. I'm not sure they're plastic products that are in BiH today. I'm not sure that's a question, for example. irrigating or stringing grains, corn and all that is in BiH. And certainly there are a lot of other things I didn't mention now, and they should mention those who know this problem far better than I do. But I do know only one thing, that there is no serious strategy in BiH that needs to answer the question of how agriculture should be addressed so that it would be a branch where people will find far better effects in terms of real gain in this production. There are very often losses in agricultural production. When it comes to Croatia's entry into the EU, given the time, I have only one sentence to say. It would be good if we could agree on another conclusion, which is to consider the consequences of Croatia's entry into the EU in the last three months, so that we as Parliament could simply give certain suggestions, conclusions. And in this regard, perhaps the Council of Ministers should also conduct one thematic debate, and after that thematic debate, that we too be informed about what is a serious problem, starting with what the milkers are facing, what problems people at border crossings have, since this topic was also the subject of debate and initiative from fellow Members. I think that question should also be found, not only here in front of us MPs, but also as the subject of debate in the Council of Ministers and in the resolution ministries, and there are certainly more that are covered by this issue. If there is a will among other colleagues, conclusions in terms of the strategies to be developed in BiH and conclusions in terms of the need to analyse Croatia's entry into the EU, there is a willingness to discuss it. The conclusions we have established on the Commission have been unanimously established, because that kind of conclusion seems to me to be easier to get support here in the House of Representatives, and that does not mean that we do not need to open the debate in these two directions. The opening of the debate is a far wider opening of new directions in this debate and it seems to me that would lead us in that direction that, I'm sure, no one wants from fellow MPs. Here, I tried to at least point at a few sentences to the problem facing the area of agriculture, but I would say industry. And finally, all of us who are budget users, and it seems to me that the attacks of citizens, people, people who apply and seek jobs towards those institutions that are financed from the budget, not the institutions that deal with production, whether it's industry, whether it's agriculture, and if there's no support from these needs in both entities, in Brcko District, throughout the country, I think we're all going to be in a serious problem because there's not going to be any real value. No real value is created. What made me happy with this report is an increase in exports, which is something that rarely happens in these areas, and that percentage rejoices if it is, and obviously there's nothing special about it, right? If that's true, then that indicates that there's room for progress. If there is room for progress then there is no reason for this kind of support not to follow, both in this Parliament, both from the Council of Ministers, both from the governments of entities and all those who can contribute to making this problem clearly more noticeable. And of course I call on fellow MPs to, if we take part and discuss these topics and we give priority to these topics, others will do, because I have noticed that the interest in this topic does not show the media unless there is a spectacle about a fight or a 56-sharp assessment. It seems to me that he gets far more places than these questions that I hope we're all interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16616	Thank you. Ambassador Dragan Vrankić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16617	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, as counterpart Bojić said we discussed on our commission and achieved great agreement. And this report is pretty good, it shows the actual state and I mean this proposal measures, conclusions can open some things. However, what I think should be mentioned here is that we have one presence of a stereotype when it comes to our agriculture, and when we look around us a little, it's certainly very easy and we can simply conclude that we are in a great deal of trouble and that we may even be at great risk and maybe we are falling into a huge decline with the direction in which we are going in agriculture. A famous agronomist, proven in the area of agriculture, Pirija once said – if you want to deal with agriculture, if you want to fail safely and easily, then it deals with agriculture. I think when you look at our circumstances now and look at what's going on on on the world market and what we're doing, then for sure, if you're in contact with people who deal with agriculture, then that conclusion certainly stands. On the other hand, we have a fact that if you were to ask for it today, or if you were to question it, or if you were to do it in school and give it to someone to say it, I have a certain capital to suggest where I'm going to invest it, then you'd see that food is the most wanted goods in the world. 50% of the population is either hungry or malnourished, and if we were to go that way then it would be very easy to conclude that we are producing losses. A colleague said earlier, so large industrial countries over 50% of their budgets are being allocated to agriculture. It is likely that this agriculture would not be profitable, but they found their own interest and it certainly and multiplely, I don't know, employment that is very important in agriculture, biodiversity etc. However, on our way, we have problems that stand, and they can be recognizable, and it can be very helpful if we turn around. I'm under the circumstances, when what Bog wills, this morning driving for a Sarajevo hitchhiking man, sitting him down, being a civil servant, and then we're talking on the way, so the man tells me he has a cow, a cow, and he submits an incentive request to a canton. Lucky for me, I stayed behind the wheel. I didn't get off the road. So we give an incentive, and we have one Hungary that has lost its stock fund, by entering Hungary into the EU. It's not even a problem where we spend these budgets in a canton or a Federation or an entity, it's quite the same, but I'm saying it's one, just one nice sign that whoever wants to see can easily see where we're going the wrong way and how we don't have a strategy at all. I have no intention of opening up jurisdiction or constitutional jurisdiction where agriculture should be, who should do it, whether we have a strategy at all or in this direction, as counterpart Bojić said, whether we should even produce cereals. I think that maybe we should, what we used to say, evaluate some of the services that we have to have in BiH, don't give Bog of crisis, certain tons of grain or tons of cattle, in that sense produce. But when we in BiH retail 57 have no place to turn today's modern machine that works in, I don't know, grain areas, then I don't know in what sense we can even talk about this production or livestock, here's what I said, one Hungary got lost on that market at all. It's not said that we don't have the space, but I also say I don't feel invited to say it, but surely we have to find people who are from professions, spaces and areas in agriculture to work in. I think that's exactly what it's supposed to be, areas where a great workforce is needed and areas where technology can't substitute human work. To begin with, they are certainly not lucrative and efficient, but for us, for our occasions in BiH, I am afraid only possible. So I think, here I also support these conclusions and I think that I should support them and support the initiative that we do not deal with the previous point in that way with our own problems, nor do I here intend to run whose responsibility it is to deal with the agriculture strategy, but simply try to find a quality way to determine the direction and try to at least do something about our agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16618	Thank you. We've got three more MPs to take a break. The word is Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16619	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I've called for a discussion with the intention of making one observation angle that hasn't found a place in this report. In fact, the report really properly presented the results and directions of the activities that are present within the framework of the existing, I would say the traditional concept of agriculture and agriculture management. I would like to say that today, in modern competition approaches, every country has to make sure that key competitors are actually companies, so the business sector. You can have great strategies, economic policies, various instruments of economic policy, but the key role of companies and companies is to create new values, hire, invest, export, ensure better lives for citizens and society as a whole. We don't see from this report what the structure of the enterprise sector is in agriculture. So we've killed ourselves since the agricultural support debate, and we really don't know who we support and what that money is going to be. I am directly encouraged to think on this topic because of the situation and in Croatia. Croatia singles out, as you have seen from this report, about 400m euros, and it has a huge dissatisfaction with its farmers because there are very different structures, ranging from highly efficient to highly inefficient producers who all want to profit and if they can't get it on the market to the state. Now we have a much lower amount of separation, and we have much bigger problems in agriculture management. I am indeed, I would like to highlight the good work of Minister Šarović and the ministry in launching a series of initiatives concerning the system regulation of agriculture, especially on the way to the EU in terms of certification, in terms of harmonisation with EU rules, etc. 58 However, I suggest a conclusion, so I would also try to complete this presentation, and I have many arguments that I could further elaborate, so I can say that I strongly support the idea that the thematic session of agriculture should once be devoted to this House. So, the preliminary conclusion in terms of how much potential they have, how many companies we have, how many companies we have, how many cooperatives we have, how many cooperatives we have, how many cooperatives we have, how many cooperatives we have, how many cooperatives, how many of them are organised in consortiums, etc., and to see at least a superficial picture of the competitiveness of that sector. As far as they are present in individual market niches, as far as they are export-oriented, how much marketing, branding, how effectively they manage their business, etc., and that we can then talk about agriculture really from one point of view that means so-called. Impact-session regulators, so the impact of regulation on the situation in a particular sector, and to see where these potentials and opportunities are to support the perspective areas of agriculture. These are mainly market niches that allow the export orientation and competitiveness of Bosnia and Herzegovina's agriculture, using both human potentials and natural conditions and traditions, etc., and that is what I think a small country such as BiH with limited resources would have to achieve in agricultural production, rather than mimic countries that have a completely different economic structure and agricultural structure, such as Serbia, such as Croatia etc. We must advocate an authentic concept of the development of agriculture that will significantly increase people's employment, which will allow a significantly larger gross domestic product, higher wages in agriculture, etc., and then the allocations that need to be made from the budget and from other purposes, above all European funds, will make much more sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16620	Thank you. The word has an MP Slavko Jovičić and let the Ambassador Saša Bursać be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16621	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll počeću with what the esteemed Professor Domazet said. Eh, this is the best example. Is there a single television, and one journalist and one newspaper that's going to invite Professor Domazet to say what he just said? None. Look, tonight's news won't be a single sentence. And this is the essence of the survival of BiH, entities, people, MPs, farmers, children in school and everything. So, first of all, there's no one to take, for a talker to Professor Domazet on this subject. There are no conversators or distinguished colleagues, Vrankić, or distinguished fellow Bojić, because I never say any of them, I don't think of these three now, but rarely when they mention that Slavuj he said something smart, but I will always mention everything, I always hear things smart here and I'm learning, and here I am, seven years old, an MP. I said that on the Commission, and that's the point, not a single journalist, he doesn't care what we said about the report, what are the problems in agriculture, and you people are planning on the NATO Pact, if it doesn't have bread and bread, and today it's empty plate, this is the essence. And if we were to go here and feel some progress, no matter what the people, he wouldn't be interested in me being an MP, a referendum when there will be, will there be, who's going where on the road, what's the daily, the salary and the rest, no one's alive. And on that commission, I'm just saying, what would the guy who's here say about the seal, and so am I, where's the journalist here, this isn't interested in anyone? But that's why tonight's full of journals, how did the Slavuj say it was against NATO's pact? No, here, I just said the current situation. As he said from the RS, he wants the 59th referendum and immediately, not a referendum on joining NATO, but on secession. It's a change that a man wouldn't dream of in his sleep. Just to make as much of the confrontation as possible of the peoples that are conflicted. Here, we're talking here in a tolerated atmosphere, I'm proud. But this is essential, and I'm just going to remind the distinguished colleagues in this term that in the last term I asked for the thematic session, I'm going to get the support of the House of Representatives and this agenda. First point of economy, second agriculture, third realisation of the economy, fourth realisation of agriculture, and within agriculture and livestock and fruit and all those branches, 101st point of economy. Thematic session, that's all. And when we see all the problems, and here's the luck that we only have the Ministry of Agriculture, because if we had the kind of conflict we'd have, I can only imagine. Here, we don't have a ministry and at least we have problems here. We have this Framework Law on Agriculture, and thank you to our distinguished colleagues, and I will not abandon Šarović, not what he is, and he knows at least, he doesn't, but only a man comes again, but these people who are experts in that sector who deal with agriculture, and this is the sixth report we're discussing, the sixth. They're mostly around here, but this one's a little better because it shows there's an increase in exports that makes me happy. But what I've been looking for on the Commission, now I'm just going to mention, what's important to me now, in the report, I've said a thousand times, we can't change the sentence, but I'm interested in what the current economic relations are that we at least have in October for some session with the export of agricultural crops, milk and others because of Croatia. Croatia is no longer our partner, we are not talking to them, we are talking to the EU, we are planning more Croatia, like Croatia. She is our neighbor, welcome, but the EU is not Croatia. And they have to act as Brussels tells them, we still don't have to. That's who we think we're on our own. But in order for me not to owe much, so I also pointed out on the commission, and the ministry that has the agriculture sector is doing great because the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Slovenia, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, the Brcko District, consults in the chain and gets all this information. Niko one avoids boasting about the results, no one, every affirmation will look for, and their own personal and ministry and institution in which they work. So whatever you want to understand, we have the least of our problems in this Commission, we don't actually have any. And instead of being humiliated by any committee, God Bog they're all the same, that the significance of this commission is given to this Commission, not to the commission that I am a member, whatever it is, but to the House of Representatives and Parliament and all politicians take the initiative and say people this is a strategic branch, we have to have a strategy on how to develop agriculture. What the esteemed colleague Vrankić said, when he saw in the Netherlands that he was a self-sufficient tractor and that he was turning himself around, he wondered where people were around, and we'd see our people and tractors just on the road. What? Blocked the road at the crossing, no milk exports. Why? Because the incentives are in Croatia, said Professor Domazet, 400m euros. We can't spare as much resources with us, but we can do as much as we can. Well, then, of course we see an external trade balance on the exchange of agricultural products. Yes, of course, the EU is now Croatia, and I said earlier, it wants Croatia in the EU and it wants to be in CEFTA. So let me, it's the best market in BiH because what they can produce to sell to Austria and Switzerland. They can't do anything, and they can do anything to us, whatever they produce to us. Nothing smaller is the importance of Serbia. So last time I was talking about how it's possible that our exporting truck, here's that water, a regular Vitinka, 6 million sold, waits for two months for some consent, and their truck comes in from Serbia in two hours. There are problems that this Parliament must take responsibility for and to put them in the thematic session and we say – people, if we start to solve this in a better way, and which way, systematically, the people will be relieved, it will be better for everyone. There will be no roadblocks, no borders, no roads. Do we even know how many people live off agriculture? We know when they get out of those agencies, 60 of those NGOs, the black market, we're somewhere, I don't know 104, 116 by corruption, by this. There's no corruption in agriculture. You planted potatoes, didn't anybody, look over there, man, there ain't nothing in the garden you can just steal. So, if I'm not banalizing these things right now, this is the most serious topic we can deal with and achieve, not consensus, but trying to build the best relationships on this subject, and none of us are farmers, every one of us has some gardens, I have nothing now, I've had a lot. But let's see who has one of our colleagues, so let me ask you now if anyone was in the garden this August, couldn't have been the heat. But here's our farm now, which would say in front of our noses, now September, October, oranice, what are we going to do, where? That's what we should have in September - the report and that strategy, not what's written there. It's great, it's all written, it's analysis, you've seen who's read it, it's great, but we don't have any use for it. We can only give support where good things are, where they're progressing, let's do even more. But let's do more and more where we're stuck. And I end up, I won't appeal to anyone, I'm not a farmer, I admit publicly that I lived in the middle where we had a huge estate, I was the biggest non-worker, I could've done it, and others were working, the deceased, what they would have said, the father and everyone else, had huge assets, agriculture, livestock, living, working, all of them. So let's help other people who want to deal with what many people want, and not just here a big story, that's how important it is to us moving and immovable property, and I don't care how many sheep, cattle stock, plums, and I don't know what it's all about, what it's all about. And that's why it would take this really special session of thematic, at least at this House, to see what we're going to do about this strategy, because we can't make people produce planes and tractors, but we can put more effort into agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16622	Thank you. Ambassador Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16623	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. Here's what I'd like to get involved with here, about agriculture. So, as a member of the Commission, I've expressed my opinion, and I'm going to do some of that again. On the Commission, so I'm going to do some of that again here, but definitely now that you're taking it, we're all about the strategy. If it were to create a quality strategy that would concern BiH, perhaps agriculture would not be a strategic set at all. So we don't even know whether to meet at all in that farm or not. Whether we belong in the agricultural sector or not now. But we must respect definitely that many people in BiH are still engaged in agriculture. We must respect that agriculture is a strategic definition of many countries, so I believe BiH would be as well. We have to respect that a lot of people depended on, and in previous times we have a huge tradition regarding agriculture, but so we need to make a strategy at levels. I remember when a strategy was made in my city, then it was a municipality, I was involved in making a strategy, and just when this sector of agriculture was concerned. Unfortunately, it's put into strategy all sorts of things. So you need to make a quality strategy. It is not easy to make a strategy for BiH, because it is not the same structure of land, or agriculture. There's nothing to do with, say, Gack and Kozarska Dubica. So these are totally opposite, as if on two planets there are 61 two municipalities, so totally opposite interests in agriculture, that's how it should be observed. BiH is a very complicated and complex country, when it comes to agriculture. BiH is located in three climatic areas, meaning in the Mediterranean, moderately continental and we reach the continental part of the upper climate. So, we have very high mountains and all this very big dissension, when it comes to BiH territory, so we have plains, so we have low hills, high, high mountains and everything else. So why am I saying all this? It is not easy to make a strategy in BiH at all. It is necessary to make a partial for each part, literally for each municipality. Literally for each municipality, i.e. for each municipality group or region. It doesn't need to be seen as jurisdiction by her or her. Of course, it does say exactly in the constitutions what is whose jurisdiction. We here, in accordance with the BiH Constitution, can do much to help people. I suggested that the committee come up with a smart proposal from the Council of Ministers, of course we can't impose it here. Out of the last 10 years, seven have been dry, three extremely dry. Here, we, in our jurisdiction, are to abolish VAT, or abolish the tax obligations on import or manufacture, or any other effect that would help people, as far as the irrigation system is concerned. So if they are dry years, we have enough water in BiH that we can all agree on, so let's make it easier for people to irrigate their agricultural surfaces. Let's get rid of taxes for people who make irrigation canals, etc., etc. What's a very big problem, it's branding products. In BiH today you will be drinking Bog knows how many liters of brandy and it is very high quality, the other day I sat with a man from Italy who is a farmer there, that is, he is far more than a farmer, the man has both processing capacities and everything else, and when I told him, please try our brandy, he said he had already had experience with her before in some years and he said that we have a fantastic product that we have definitely not pushed anywhere. And we can't push it out in any way because there's no will, or we go back to it without strategy, we haven't pushed anything into the world as a product unique from these spaces to make it something extra and something quality. Serbia has, for example, managed to push its "yellow axis" through, and that is one of the most expensive drinks in the West. Something similar, I believe that it could be done in BiH because we have extremely high quality orchards, we produce extremely high quality fruit and we could break through that way. However, I believe that none of us here sits who thinks ill of any branch of agriculture and if we come up with smart suggestions for reliefs that we could make here, in any way, I believe there would be no resistance. Mr. Domazet mentioned companies. That's right, now that you take a company called "Ars" in the territory of the municipalities where I come from, so these are planted huge areas under the orchard, they're made coolants and people export their entire production, they literally spend very little on the domestic market of their products. But the company draws a lot of shredded agricultural producers, means those small ones that produce for themselves, that is, on their own holdings and buy also high quality products and push them further into the foreign market. I think that's where we need to find someone, as I say, to find some environment, to make a compromise, and it's the state that needs to dictate this particular pace between companies and small agricultural producers. And that way we can help people definitely, it's not just an incentive solution. It's not just an incentive solution, it's an incentive, it's a goodwill, it's an incentive, it's a good relationship. When you make a good relationship between the people who guarantee it, it means a safe ransom, a good price and everything else. Croatia has invested 400 million in its agriculture. That's right. That's true, but they're lost in everything, and they don't have a quality strategy, and that's why what's happening to them today is happening to them. 62 So they have about the same problem as BiH, so the same thing I mentioned, three climate areas and everything else. And they are not, there can be no single strategy for a complete state like Croatia. It also means we do not need to fly and make the same mistake Croatia is making. If anyone ever dares to deal with this problem, do not follow the Croatian model because their model, here it is these days that it is wrong. Unfortunately, I was asking a question, who was listening to my parliamentary question and it was about CITES, it's the Convention on International Trade of endangered species of wild animals and plants, and now in this context we can rely on plants. I think that in this context BiH can also look for its chance because we have a lot of indigenous species, because we have, despite or thanks to this opt-out climate in these areas, we have a lot of species that are interesting to producers in the world, but we can't do them, we can't legally do them because we definitely can't make one convention that, I can say, is a banal thing. We can't because there's probably a policy going on, or Bog knows what, and that's the problem. We need to work things out, these are practical things, so we need to solve them, we don't have to let ourselves fall into traps like we did at previous points, we don't need any politics here, we don't need any political extra will here, we need professional people and we need one big will and it just needs to be better BiH in every context, because if we have a farm branch that we're going to turn to, I think it's about time we did a lot of things, and it's not like that now we're taps in place, because definitely in this report we see that in some parts we're competitive in some things we don't. Here, we talked on the Commission, so now that you're taking it, we can't be competitive in the production of flat grains, but we have a lot of unemployed people we can be competitive there because it takes a lot of hands to add fruit, like strawberry fruit, fruit growing. There is no combination that collects the fruits of apples, pears, raspberries, blackberries, strawberries and everything else. Now, we're going to have a problem, and here you'll see that there's going to be a problem with collecting fruit in the territory of Gradiška, Dubica, Prijedor because very few people will be interested in this physical part of the job to harvest these fruits. That is why, in this context, it is necessary to look at how and how to solve problems, because even when we produce something then we have a problem with the collection of fruits. It's not bad to look at which problems people who have freezers face, because it's the modern world trend we definitely need, we need all the serious producers of any agricultural products. I'd have a lot more to say, but I'm running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16624	I thank my colleague Bursać for the exhaustive debate. This concludes the debate on the 10th point of the agenda. I'm taking a break from some, just over 50 minutes. It's 3:00 a.m., and it's a session session. 63 [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please take your positions. We will proceed with the session of the House of Representatives. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda, Ad. 11. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The Work of the Commission of the BiH Institution", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16627	I hope I'm not interrupting anyone, but here, I'll be very brief. I think this is one of, to say the least to us, a very useful report. It is, however, the commissions set up by the Council of Ministers, salaries, determines their tasks, etc., but we also have a contribution to this report which gives a review of all these committees that were known to be the Office for Auditing, because here is the conclusion that there is no accurate data on how many working bodies in BiH institutions in general exist. But this data, this data that says there is an estimate that there are more than 100 commissions and that they are at an annual level of 2 million, costing 2 million KM on the one hand, and on the other hand this main question that the audit team has asked itself, what effect it is, etc., so these answers say that this and the money and people are engaged seem almost for nothing, almost for nothing. So, I'm interested, most of all, in this regard, in whether there was a reaction, so you've made some recommendations, etc., as the Council of Ministers has responded in communication with you, as people have said about it, of course we will come to the turn, hopefully, and so will we talk about our commissions. Is it possible that a year's commission never met, received fees, maybe some people never came on board, received fees, etc. So, these are really things, I say again I apologize, I don't want to usurp time or time, etc., but I really need to look at this and imagine it well. Here, I only ask the auditor, or the people of the Audit Office to tell us if these recommendations by the Council of Ministers accept, accept these findings, and what does it mean to seem that this situation is really changing? Thank you very much, and we have situations, and you see this one Commission of Experts on Digital Earth Television has done its job to, as it is said, done its job, made the Action Plan in the 12th month of 2011, and this akcion Plan has never been considered or adopted or used. So, it really seems to me that we are, I was even thinking of proposing that all the commissions be abolished by those who are by law, etc., which are necessary and that the institutions take over and resolve how they know and know and can learn, learn, learn, get along, etc., because this doesn't really lead to anything anymore. Thank you very much. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16628	Thank you. The word has an MP, Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16629	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. Here, very briefly. The impact review is one of the new institutions and organizations organised by the Office for Audit and these are some initial steps, but have already shown their effectiveness and justification with several reports. Justification in the sense that certain weaknesses and failures show in due time is just a matter of how much their attitudes are being heard. I just came forward to say that, one suggestion to the Council of Ministers to study these materials well, if, for nothing, because of the uniformity of the criteria in the selection of these commissions, would grant a time period for the implementation of certain tasks and particularly monetary fees. There are very large differences between 200 and 700 marks to me, I know that the diversity and complexity in the work of certain commissions, but regardless of which is most of them or 99% are professionals who do their job in services and besides receive salaries. Sometimes it's probably because of the inability to give more adequate rewards through employees' salaries, through which, through these commissions, they reward people. And perhaps it's symptomatic that on the team, at the level of ministries in individual commissions and in several commissions. They have audited only a dozen institutions that do so, and you can think when, if all the institutions they have formed were visited, then it would be seen that individuals are in five, six or more commissions, which in any case disturbs certain relations, and in that direction it would be good for the Council of Ministers to consider this in detail, take appropriate measures and make rules to define what the commission can form, how long it can take and restrictions with the amount of compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16630	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16631	Well, whenever we're discussing the review report, we find that there are no clear rules, there are no clear standards by which it works, by which state institutions do better or worse work. That's the way it is in this case. The review report is, in my opinion, good, but if we're going to repeat the same story every time, the same sad-ass, that doesn't make any sense. I would therefore suggest that we start to act rationally and finally define clear standards in this area – where, in which cases, a special working group should be set up, a special commission, within which deadlines it can work and how to evaluate this work, etc. I would therefore suggest that, to oblige the Council of Ministers to bring these issues to you by the end of the year, by following the recommendations and criteria of the revision contained in this Report, and they are very clear and in my opinion so, they have this character of objectivity and applicability. 65 In this regard, I will propose a conclusion, so – That the Council of Ministers, by the end of the year, by the basis of these recommendations and the criteria contained in the Report, bring clear standards in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16632	Thank you. The word has an MP Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16633	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'm on the trail, about Mr. Franjičević said what I was going to say, but here I'll do it again. First, let me commend this report. He may be an excellent database, I am convinced even for members of the Council of Ministers, because indeed this number of commissions that are with their effect which is thus minimal, which we have seen, of course, from the Report concerns. We see that the whole, hajka, media pomp and hamp are on the MPs of this Parliament in a way that is muddy in a very unpleasant way, is it a way, but now we see from this report that there is material that can be said about various of these commissions that have been set up, we don't know who they are founded from, what they do and how much they do, etc. I think in any case commendation for the Office of Audit, of course impact review needs to be known, means knowing how, when, and where, and how effective something is, how much it means helps to solve certain issues. This, I said, would be a good basis, i.e. a database for the Council of Ministers, I would join my colleague Franjičević who said that actually that the Council of Ministers should introduce in this matter order. Because I'm convinced that there's no particular coordination there to do all this and put it on paper, it's now put on paper, so now we have one transparency, excellent and for the public, means for us as MPs, but I think the Council of Ministers may need to, say, end of the year to give a certain opinion on all this stuff. It would be very good for the citizens and for us here, parliamentarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16634	Thank you. I'm closing the 11th item of the agenda. We're moving to agenda 12, Ad. 12. Security status information in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2012, BiH Ministry of Security material The Joint Commission has also proposed the adoption of appropriate conclusions. They were delivered to all present here. I'm opening a debate. Dušanka Majkić, the first member of parliament, signed up for the word. Here you go. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16636	Thank you very much. Here, first of all, I want to say that the Joint Commission has paid considerable attention to this report to the team before it is known that in recent years we have largely not received reports from the Ministry of Security. It was for different reasons, but this time we have a systematic report that gave us answers to certain questions, but also opened up a number of questions that should definitely be addressed by this House. What are the key things that should be addressed, and what should be the focus? So far, we haven't had a chance to get messages from the Ministry of Security saying that some things are very badly solved and that they will need to be dealt with by all the security structures headed by the Ministry of Security no matter how much they resisted that because of their inability, or incompetence, there is nothing they can do. If any statements are made in this report, then it is up to the Ministry to give an opinion. For example, the first stance on corruption in BiH says -- that BiH's particular major threat continues to be widespread corruption activities and that most criminal groups have built solid positions through a branched network of links with different levels of government. It's a finding that a man can take with a chill, and the next is a reaction to what we're going to do on that plan. Is it possible for the safety report to conclude this without seeing any way out of this darkness? The second thing, the second finding of the Ministry of Security, is that the Intelligence Agency has provided a series of data on a significant number of contacts between staff in various administration bodies, as well as police and security agencies with individual criminal elements. With regard to these ties, state employees at different levels of government occasionally provide certain benefits to organised crime members or are constantly engaged in such services. These are terrible findings. If there are employees in BiH institutions who are in direct contact and it is known that they sell information for money and that it is probably a question that it is not behind it, what is next and what is the way. Can we also conclude this next year when that report comes, say – so we decided to do it again and again? So it is one responsibility of the Ministry of Security, but also of this Parliament to go over it. Finally, they worry about the data that a number of criminal activity carriers have succeeded by giving bribes in money and other valuables to individual holders of the executive and judicial authority. What does that mean, is that the story we were talking about corruption in the judiciary? If that's true and if such information exists, and we don't do anything, then we're indirect accomplices to what's going on. So I respect the courage that the Ministry of Security has made, but it's very interesting for us to know what will be done on that plan. When it comes to terrorism, 36 acts related to terrorism and 71 items related to arms trafficking and explosive devices have also been processed. Isn't 36 acts of terrorism too much for a small country like this? What are we doing on that plan? In particular, the threat in BiH is being posed by warriors who are at war in different countries and who will return here, what a security challenge they will pose the moment they return. What happens to the Wahhabi communities in BiH and who controls them, do we know what happens in these, many parts of BiH? So, there are a number of open issues that have been raised, the Intelligence Security Agency mentions on several occasions that there is information, either there is no precise, or there is no data available, although it does not exclude, or it has not reached 67 specific data, if it is not done by the Intelligence Security Agency who needs to work. Whose task is it if security agencies fail to do so, will we meet again with a story like the story of Jašarević? So we really need to respect what is said, but we need to respect more if we get answers to all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16637	Thank you. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16638	So, this information on the state of security even though it applies to 2012 is very useful, even if you are using this other material that we have as MPs, above all as members of this Commission for Defence and Security, these are the material that handles key security challenges, co-ordination of police agencies, etc., one image of the situation can be obtained in 2012, but it can also be concluded and drawn up what trends are and what is expected in this, even in the coming years. Indeed, as my colleague Majkić said, she had taken serious action and prepared, to say the same report, an opinion with a number of conclusions that I would comment on, because we did not have a full consensus there. But I would point to a few things from this information that are really looking for action. Let's say crimes in the area of economic crime damage in 2012 is 58 million KM. So that's the number that really worries. Crimes in the area of drug trafficking, etc. increased by 10%. And that's the thing that worries, and especially the increase in corruption crime, the increase is 14.3% in 2012 compared to 2011, but I say, from this point on, if a man analyzes it, he can conclude that trends are not the best. As far as the Commission's opinion is concerned, we've only really received knowledge, but we've considered it necessary, and that's okay, that, in addition to that, where we've said that we're taking it to the knowledge, we're proposing a number of conclusions that were generally acceptable to me, but the conclusion under a) was not acceptable to me because of the formulation because it seems rather trendy and doesn't view the matter in general. So I am absolutely against any involvement of our citizens in armed conflicts in other countries, and especially after their return to placing some, so to speak, the idea of radical and creating confusion in BiH, but I am generally against all forms. So, I'm not about to specifically get out of the context of total, particularly Islamic radicalism and a few countries. I'm sure, I'm sure, and I can probably confirm that the services, that there's more and more. So this conclusion under a) for me is unacceptable, and the others are acceptable, with us in this Information, if you look closely at it, the finding that there are people who have a grip with criminals, that there are people who, if that's the case, could get an answer as to who these people are and whether they're being processed and whether they're in jail. Some names by the press we heard them and they were in the process of something, etc. And I finally have a proposal that these conclusions, here I have written, complemented by the following – that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH supports and asks the Council of Ministers to work on creating conditions for implementing the measures and the next steps set out in the Security Information for 2012. 68 No matter what the 2012 report is, if you look at these measures, these trends, and steps, etc. they are in a way universal, i.e. they are applicable both in this period of 2013 and in subsequent periods. And I think that the least Parliament can do should encourage and support these measures, and ask the Council of Ministers to create conditions so that they can be realised. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16639	Thank you. Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16640	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. We are facing a very important Information that treats the security issue of BiH citizens, but the sense of security is not statistics, the sense of security is something else entirely. In fact, what's one man who had a murder in his family cares about is the degree of discovery of the crime, whether he's 80%, 90%, only if his undiscovered one has a sense of uncertainty. Unfortunately, most BiH citizens have such a feeling and it is not the result of statistics, it is the result, unfortunately, and politics, it is the result of the general ambience that is in BiH, it is the result and the staff failures in the security agencies in BiH, that is the result, here is our public debate. We can say it's not, but it's like that, people are watching it, we're fighting, we're fighting, we're arguing. And people get the impression that the situation is electric to the point where they feel insecure. Is the security system tied? We know it's not, and every year when we discuss security information, it's not tied. I'm not saying we should tie it up one way or another, but I don't see in the proposal measures but not a single step, not a single conclusion in that direction. Without that, here's one to say – you know you don't need to take the jurisdiction of entities, cantons or etc., without taking any jurisdiction but you have to know that there's a security pyramid in which a system of responsibility must exist. We have a system today where when you set up any boss, director or I don't know what it's called already law enforcement agencies, you're done with it, you can't change it. And so this sense of irresponsibility against those who choose you leads to a situation that citizens have a sense of uncertainty. I'm not going to talk about the personnel failures here, I'm just saying that, but I don't see that there's anything in the proposal for conclusions on that matter, to the extent that even some of the personnel haven't even passed the basic security checks. It's worrying, we need to worry about that condition. Economic crime, there are some facts here, but I'm afraid our law enforcement agencies are being placed in the role of certain lobbying business groups that are actually destroying competition through so-called. the fight against economic crime. Well, it's not a rare case that, say, the owner of a private company is arrested, held in custody for three, five, six months, and then released without charges, no criminal charges, no trial and no one at all. He's already lost his reputation, lost his job, lost his market, etc., and no one is responsible or responsible. For that, in those few months, the second private company to have been in cahoots with our, unfortunately, agencies has provided itself and the market, and business, and business for many years. So I think the Ministry of Security should take care of these aspects, because I haven't been able to read that anything on this matter has been written here. 69 Furthermore, I would also refer to the opinion of this Commission, so I saw that the Commission was proposing the following conclusions – the Parliamentary Assembly was considering, so there is one conclusion, maybe I didn't get another and I don't see what the second conclusion is, so maybe I got the wrong opinion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's got, 1 has a), b, c), d), so there's no two, or at least I don't see it, but I'd also like to look back at this conclusion under a). Can someone from the Commission define precisely what a flag of radical Islam is, what a flag it looks like, what ideological directions it is, what radical Islam is, where is the border? Maybe tomorrow someone here will call me a radical Islamist, so we know where the border is, at least let's not get close to it, is it, or that limit will eventually, depending on day-to-day politics, move up or down. So I think this is a very dangerous thesis, so don't let us fall into those traps for a few reasons. There is not only radicalism related to Islam, and in BiH there is radicalism related to both justice and Catholicism and Islam, therefore only radicalism exists. So either I don't know only about the countries of Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, etc., there were many warriors from BiH and Tunisia and I don't know about other countries, Kosovo, etc., and many have returned to BiH, and many today produce problems that are here, which have security elements. Therefore, I think this conclusion should be generalized. In addition to mentioning the flag of radical Islam in Syria, is this the opposite of official politics, the foreign policy of BiH declared by the Presidency, the Presidency is in charge of foreign policy, is this putting one side in Syria? Which is the right side in Syria, is she that is officially Asadov, or is this other who is fighting, who has legitimate rights, seeking freedom, fighting for freedom? And now to call them radical Islamists, I think it's a bit the opposite, at the very least, of the official BiH policy. And in order not to fall into those traps, I think we need to take care of it. Therefore, here I also agree with my colleague Belkić that at the very least we should modify this conclusion first floor a), and I don't know what the conclusions are two or some new... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16642	Thank you. Replica of the emissary Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16643	Thank you. I really do have to react to the allegations of a respected colleague, Mehmedović, about these various radicalisms. Yes, Mr. Mehmedović, they can, but the difference is that Serbian, if you want these radical groups or Croatian radical groups, their radicalism usually comes down to folk rhetoric at this point. Unlike those who go around the white 70 world with the passports of this country, they're tied to Al-Kaid and they're making acts of terrorism. Mr. Mehmedović, none of us 14, I guarantee you, it does not occur to me that we associate the Bosniak people in BiH with this radical Islam, because it is not in the essence of local Islam. But unfortunately, war events, what happened in the war, those warriors who came here, some of them still stayed there, so if you want a bad economic situation, many young people who are so left to themselves, who have no conditions for schooling, or for, to get to work, succumb to these sweet promises about, I don't know, what roads, and we all witness those recruiting on various internet portals, we can also read that in various media. So, Mr. Mehmedović, don't make a switch to the thesis here and transfer it to anyone, and even here it's not in this report or us, and we from the RS never identify the Bosniak people with it, but the fact is that there are roots here that are bound to Al-Kaida. And if you're responsible for this country, if you think well of this country, you should fight it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16644	Thank you. Replica, Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16645	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here I am, on the same subject, so definitely as far as this radicalism is concerned, I've heard for the first time that there is a radicalism associated with Orthodoxism. I've never heard of this before in my 30s and change years of life. I haven't heard of this Catholicism or radicalism either, and that's why I haven't heard of it. And as for Islamic radicalism, you can hear it whenever you turn on TV and you don't have to turn on TV in BiH freely, you can turn on any world TV or anywhere in the world and hear in some news that it is and that it is, that it is a huge amount in the world and, of course, is not amnesty or BiH. So, what happens to us in the RS can, or here, if you want and in Serbia, can connect means there are, so there are some Serbian radical parties in which people are quite normal, I'm not their match and I don't want to defend them, but that's nowhere near what is, say, Islamic radicalism, because that's where people who kill people in the world are thinking, they're making terrorist acts, they're causing huge problems, and they're a huge insatiable threat to the entire planet of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16646	Thank you. Replica, MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16647	Look, here's a colleague of Aleksandar's again, saying it has something to do with this radical Islam. Can you explain to me what radical Islam is, what, what is it? I don't know what 71 measures you have, which are your principles, which is why you claim there is some radical Islam. That's one thing. The second thing, if it is for you a folklore of the returnees, if it is for you a folklore of the Chetnik Ravnog movement, it is not a folklore for those who intend to return or return to BiH. You know, the sense of security that I'm talking about, what the subject of today is the point of the agenda, is actually the safety of those who don't consider it folklore, no matter what you think of such an act. Therefore, the warriors who came to BiH have different sides, both the Ukrajinac and the Grk and the Arap, and I don't know where they came from anymore. Whoever came with what intention, what who did it, etc., there is, of course, documentation, and at the very least, if the agencies fail to sublime it, then surely history will write about it. And here I see also the assistant minister who led a commission, so to speak, for the revision of the citizenship of naturalised foreigners, or Bosnian citizens, therefore he can certainly say much more about it. Therefore, arguing that there are elements in BiH related to Al-Kaida that you should immediately give such knowledge to the law enforcement agency, do not keep it to yourself, because it is certainly a danger to BiH citizens. And you should, and you should, and you are both obliged and mandatory and as a citizen, and especially as a representative in this House. Therefore, I would not agree with you with such assessments and ask you to be precise in your statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16648	Thank you. Replica, MP Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16649	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I really need to replicate. The situation, that is, to discuss the Information on the state of security in BiH in this way is really ignoring facts or launching, trying to turn things away from reality. So we don't live in Disneyland. There was war in this country, there was aggression, there was genocide. So, and now to pretend it with a story about some self-radical Islam because it's now in, for some reason there. It is not disputed, they have agencies, they have the instruments of this state, let anyone who is a threat to security on everyone's territory in BiH be arrested. But now we talk only about some radical Islam, when the returner to Bajram beats us in Zvornik, when we light the front door in the middle of Zvornik, when in front of Bratunac opština is playing round and telling the citizens of another country, etc., not to quote now how the song was running, you looked at the portals, is totally turning public in another direction. What are we talking about? Yesterday we have an action of the D.A.'s office and competent state agencies, lighting up murders, and there's no faith or nation. You have on the other side of the East Sarajevo in Lukavica, you have on this side. The criminal is a criminal. But please don't talk here now about some flags of Islam, etc., who's a good Muslim, what kind of Muslims we are, the Bosnian herdsman. We know who we are. But don't let us turn things around who went to Syria. They've got agencies, there's Mr. Đuvo, here's Mr. Radončić's minister, there's this Goran Zubac director, we sent a letter last time at Parliament's session. It's not a problem... Šemsudin Mehmedovic's MPs in this House, and what about some untouchable in these criminal circles? 72 Here, we want to believe in the institutions of the system, in the Court, in the D.A., in the state agencies, but don't ask us to display things here as some kind of, so we've had a war here for four years, so where are your so-called radicals, where are those bombs? We have this case of Mevludin Jašarević, whether the system institutions responded in quality, whether they were also praised by the US government and the embassy here. So we have instruments, we need to strengthen them, but please don't tell me now stories about how we're an incubator for some kind of attacks on Syria or for some other regimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16650	Thank you. I would ask you to use our time rationally. Here are the cameras, they are probably waiting for this point – the Commission's conclusions on European integration to record. Replica, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16651	Oh, I don't really know if it makes sense to replicate on all this anymore. On the one hand, to protect someone and invite agencies to do their job, so when agencies do their job and write what they write, they say – well, that's not so. I just have to really realize that I'm just now scared and worried, because it's obvious that those who mention themselves in these reports still have some political sponsors here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16652	Thank you. Nice to Kalabić you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16653	Although it is very difficult to talk about this information, I thought there would be a debate in the other direction, however, like all these years nothing has changed and will not now. It doesn't make any difference, but, uh, so I'm honest with you, I'm gonna keep my mouth shut, or I'm gonna go talk to you about the information itself because there are some things I see. First, the finding by counterparts Sarajlić and counterpart Mehmedović should not ignore the fact that these findings were written by Minister Bošnjak and the directors of the Bošnjak agencies. I ask you what you would tell us if it were written by Srbin? So, first of all, it's not right, so first of all, it's not right for you to address your colleagues that way for something these people wrote. And it is not correct for your colleague Pandurević, whom you do not believe, to interpret what radical Islam is, when I heard the story of radical Islam from the mouth of Reis, to explain it, to him you believe. Why do you bother to let her explain it to you? So, I don't think it's a complete replacement, a complete replacement of thesis. We didn't make it up, we're not happy to discuss it, we didn't say it, it's not our product, it's any kind of product. But now we're in a position to deny it. So we won't even discuss it. Go hajati, write a statement in one sentence, and I will support that there is no such thing in BiH. Here, write down, I'll vote Bianca. But you have Riker two buildings out of here, tell him, if you can. Well, he can't, he can't. So you can't tell him, you're telling him there's too much, and we're having a big problem with it, and now here as a foll of something we do. So convince us 73 is not the problem. This, we've been in the situation we've taken over from the world and from the world's agencies. From the same agencies that spread the story of the genocide you took over yesterday. Now one can pass, the other cannot pass. Well, don't say that. I don't think it's okay, especially the story of the returnees. Here's the list. Let's see if this Chetnic or beginner's folklore has prevented us from returning, and see if idealism in the Federation has prevented us from returning. Here we go. They don't even have anyone to bother around here. They don't even seem to have anyone left to threaten. They don't even have anyone else to do anything about it. And here we have it. Why so many acts when there is no return to RS? What if there's no going back and the collar hasn't been made? Here's the information that we're going to have for each other, so we're going to have it in a few months, so let's see who created the environment for the return, and who cares about what they do when they come back. So we don't run out of foggy data. And... we had different dates here. I'm not saying, of course, that I'm not the one making the decision, but don't bring it down to the level when the people of that people came to terms with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16654	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16655	I'm done. We thought at least that it would discuss it with them, at least with them, so that you would open up that controversy with them whether or not there's no such story, not that it's now being transferred as if a colleague of Pandurević invented that termology and now suddenly wants to distract us here.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16656	I thank my colleague Kalabić. From what I understand, he's united both the replica and the discussion, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16657	It's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16658	It's not. He's a colleague of Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16659	Mr. Chairman. I would hate to rephrase it, but here's a distinguished colleague, Asim Sarajlić, set two examples concerning my city. First of all, I have to say that if these were a typical example of turning attention to less important than essential issues, although I must objectively say that none of them should be allowed, neither should any citizen nor any object in BiH on any side be threatened. Be assured, this is an incident situation which is in Zvornik and I am convinced that the police structures at the Centre of Public Security will reveal who did it, not only according to, unfortunately, it happened on an important holiday, an extremely important holiday and related to this private facility. But I'll tell you one thing, we'll deal with it, I have to say that Zvornik is one of the cities that has the largest return to BiH, 15,000 74 Bošnjak have been returned to Zvornik. That where someone is going to sing something, what we're going to write about something, watch out, I mean no song in terms of any message anywhere is good, but if we were to deal with it, I could give you thousands of other examples. I won't tell you about them. But I'll tell you, the greatest fight for the safety of every citizen in this country is if we tell ourselves the truth. I will not tell you anything about the threat to the national security of people who, therefore, are a threat to the national security of BiH. In particular, I will never say that if it is members of the Islamic religion. I believe that we must face reality and that fundamental things must be said to one another and that we must say when it is time to stop and who can say what. I will tell you when it comes to any incidents or any activity by members of the Serb people or Orthodox faith, I will always be in a position to condemn it. But you must have courage, all of us, we must have the courage to condemn it all. We must not remain silent at the cost of anything, any political benefit. The political benefit is of no value if any life in any sense is at risk here or anywhere, from any BiH citizen. In that sense, we must fight openly and not strengthen our actions and give the right to anyone in something that threatens the life or safety of anyone. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16660	Thank you. Replica, Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16661	So, the Honorable Chairman, I just wanted to draw attention to that security segment, that is, the security area in BiH 18 years after Dejton is here. It's not just this question that today wants to ask a question. It is clear, Lazare, that with Zoran Stevanović, the head of the Zvornik, I had a meeting, the head of the club and the SDA went before that to Zoran, and we know who Zoran Stevanović, the leader of the local self-government, and I said neither the criminal nor the criminal has a name, no faith, no nation, that he cannot hide under any flag. Here's what they show these actions of the system they're carrying out. But we can't generalize things like that. The problem of BiH security must be seen from several aspects. And what Šemsudin was talking about, and the economic crisis and post-war society, and all those who came Bog knows for what reasons in the war in BiH, so I didn't call them, and I don't need them. And anyone who is a danger to any citizen in BiH should be either deported or dealt with by the system. But today I'm telling a story like this and I'm suggesting a conclusion like this, and I really think it's inappropriate, because it's causing a lot of polemics that we don't need. We should now build a society that will ensure the safety of every citizen, every inch of this country. Because I've just led these few examples from Podrinj to point out that it may not be some kind of radicalism, or any member of any religion, it may be some kids who are up-to-date teenagers, etc. That's what the local police authorities are trying to determine. But please don't throw the story on one track and let's forget the broad spectrum of security in BiH that's very complex. And despite what we're doing, building society, I think we've done a lot on that segment since '95. To this day. 75 Here is when we mention both the SDA and the former Minister of Security, and speaking of the Minister of Security as a Bošnjak, so we don't see the minister as a member of the nation. Every minister is a BiH minister. The most efficient by me, here as an MP in this House, is for me the most effective minister in the Council of Ministers today, Mr Šarović. And what's the problem here? I said that in the media a few days ago. But security, here's the action that the previous minister has been doing, to point out Bočinju, what the minister is doing today is all for the benefit of all citizens, is not against anyone now. But let's not close our eyes to other BiH problems that are very much in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16662	Thank you. Here you have heard the opinion of Šarović, the old love of oblivion is gone. Replica, Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16663	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, somehow I'm always lucky to replicate to Mr. Kalabić, because in the replica he referred to Mr. Sarajlić, he mentioned that we also have a radical Islam or flag of radical Islam in the Information. It seems to me that I've been well-read and read this report, and I think the Ministry of Security has been well-determined in that direction and does not mention the term of radical Islam. And that's why it is a story here, just about the opinion of the commission on which that term was introduced. Because as a member of Islam, I don't want anyone to qualify me through that... On the other hand, all those who don't behave Islamicly, and I look through my life to act that way, because Islam is the faith of love and tolerance, are not members of Islam. Another thing is that perhaps world politics or some directions globally in the world produce certain people of radical character to assign the term of Islam and push them, is whether, in something that is not good. Islam is a religion of tolerance, faith of respect for people, and in no way can that term enter into the qualifications of all those who believe are members of Islam, or Muslims. And those who through that formula are included, is, in something that is negative today in the world, or as someone says, cool is to say in such a way for such people to behave like that, should be removed. Not only from the world, but from BiH. But they need to be recognized. It says here there's a tendency to have some people, that they're leaving, they're coming back. In no case should they be justified, but to introduce them to the situation that they are members of Islam and now introduce a new formula, a formulation of radical Islam, which through the Ministry of Security's report was in no way intended, should not be misused through the Commission's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16664	Thank you. I would suggest we stop these replicas and move on to discussion, get off this field of theological debate, to this security debate, if that's okay with you colleagues. Here's what I see they're getting along. 76 The word has an MP, Šefik Džaferović, whether it is okay or stay with the replica. All right, come on, colleague Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16665	Here's what I'm going to do, Chairman, for a moment. Security is everything, from traffic security to everything we've talked about, but we have a fundamental problem, which, in BiH, truly worries me – the lack of sufficient potential for intellectual, media, religious readiness to condemn the extra-institutional action of any BiH citizen in war conflicts anywhere in the world, so outside of our country. So anyone who is a member of this group is a religious member, Orthodox or a member of the Serb faith, who participates in this, a member of the Serb people who may possibly be involved in this, is a potential threat on their return to this country. We have to face it. I'm worried when I listen to the show, when the intellectuals justify Bosniaks, justify participation in the battlefields, it doesn't matter now from Syria or anywhere. The return of these people in any way, the return of these people is a danger to the national security of the citizens of this country, anyway, because they perceive it that way. So, going to wartimes outside the international force from BiH is a danger. It's unnecessary to explain what can happen from that. How as public officials we can influence that it is less, that it is not and that it does not happen to anyone. It's an essential message. If we keep it quiet as a problem, and it comes back to us as a problem, we will have a problem for the safety of this country. Not just countries, but regions and anything. So we have to do everything. In that sense, I didn't want to... it's a very important internal and external security of this country. It is possible by integral factors and the future of this country is only possible to build so. However different we set it, now if we keep quiet from it, we have a problem. Someone says there's 300,..., there's 500, let's have 100, let's have 10 people they're a problem. The problem is the threat to the peace of anyone in this country. In that sense, I believe that this information that is spoken of should be seen as a serious approach by the Ministry to be accounted for in every way possible in accordance with the law, with anyone who violates the security of this country. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16666	Thank you. Replica, Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16667	I apologize to the chairman, I understand your appeal, but we have gone on a very sensitive subject and it is important to clarify that we do not remain vague about certain things, because this is a very sensitive issue and that we do not replace the thesis or put our mouths on someone who has not said anything. Mr. Mehmedović asked for it to be clarified by the security ministers and those who handled this Information. He asked to be given an interpretation of radical Islam and the radical flag of Islam, as he had already said. So I say, he asked to make it clear, but at the wrong address he said who should do it. So we didn't say it, we didn't say it. 77 And the second question, fellow Sarajlić, is that you have once again tried skillfully to replace the thesis. We didn't say it was the only problem. You tried to deny it as a problem at all, so now you've accepted. Well, it's a problem, it's not the only one, I agree, it's not the only one. And it is not correct to say that it is the only problem in BiH. It is a big problem, a huge problem, but we agree it's not the only one. You were supposed to say that in the beginning, not deny it. No, you can't deny it, it's a problem, but I agree with you, it's not the only one. And that way we can talk, and I don't intend to continue to engage in polemics. I don't have the illusion that we can work it out here. You have a need elsewhere to answer those questions and you know exactly what these places are. And in those places try to wrap it up, deny it. And I'm going to tell you an example, each one of us on our own skin, we're a few years story of war crimes, you know what we had in mind, and it ended the way it ended. You can't take the wind. You know how it goes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16668	Thank you. Discussion, MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16669	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. This is about, I don't need to talk about whether, very important Information from a very important area, and I'm sorry that despite Mr Belkić's warning and my warning and some other colleagues, the Commission went in this direction and formulated this conclusion first or first, one or first, I don't know how to number it here either. I think it led to a debate that went one way. Let me, first of all, go back to the essence of what I think I should say today about this Information, and then, of course, look back at this question that we're talking about, but very briefly, because I was talking about it on the Commission. First of all, I think I need this information here today to take note. And that is what I have proposed to the Commission, and I think that the Commission supported this thing, and that in the Information, we identify every field of deviant social activity dealing with this Information, which shows a trend of deterioration in 2012 compared to the previous year, should be the subject of our special interest and should be the subject of our conclusions. To translate, everywhere where the number of crimes or the number of negative phenomena is generally stated, in the Information shown above, we have to deal with the causes of this. So let's see what it is and I think that the Parliamentary Assembly, that is, this House should be entrusted to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security that each of these areas is specifically analysed and seen what is happening. Is the number of corruption crimes increased because institutions work more efficiently in 2012 than in 2011 or is really more of these crimes, and then the number is increased. Is it so, whether it is more revealed or more committed? What's me, like a man who's practically spent his whole life dealing with this trial problem, let's say I'm interested, and I find it very interesting, it's always been a measure, when in one year there's an increase in the number of murders in one country compared to the previous year, did anyone here talk about it? It's a very important, worrying thing. 10% is the number of murders in 2012. A year, according to this information, than it was in 2011. Let's see why it's in BiH. 78 Let's take some other examples. Let's say, an example that everyone here is going to discuss completely openly, let's say car theft. We had an explosion in a carjacking for a while. Then there was a state plan at BiH level that reduced it to one, significantly narrowed down the number of these crimes. We say in 2012 again have a trend of increase. Let's see why that is. And this information is being delivered to us here to talk, first of all, about these things, to identify where the problem is and to task those who deal with the executive authority to tell us why it is so and to take measures to make it less in the next year, so that the security situation in the following year, in order to make the security situation in BiH more stable. In this context, I also believe that, in addition to these, that we are receiving knowledge of the Information, the House of Representatives should nevertheless adopt a conclusion in which it will assign the Council of Ministers to any area in the information where the deterioration was recorded in 2012 compared to last year, it must be subject to the special interest of the Council of Ministers, the competent ministry, Parliament and all of us, in order to see where the causes are, to remove them and to make it less in BiH. As far as the Commission's conclusions are concerned, let me say that the Commission's conclusions are under b), c), d) something that comes from information and something that's okay, I mean, this is being asked as a question, and I don't think there should be a problem here. Some answers can be given, some answers can't be given, some are operational knowledge, so they can't be given, can they? We all know how far you can go in those answers, until the procedure itself is compromised, the procedure itself. These conclusions under b), c) and d) are what they are looking for, and I think there's nothing that would be harmful. The problem is, and I immediately said, when it comes to this conclusion number one. Therefore, conclusion number 1 or (a) says that the Parliamentary Assembly is asking the Ministry of Security to inform the Joint Commission within 30 days of the following, and then what is being done within the framework of the security sector and law enforcement agencies to avoid negative implications for BiH, following the return of its citizens who are warring under the flag of radical Islam in Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan and other countries. I was immediately on the Commission, and here is my colleague Belkić already spoke about it, and he warned not to give any qualifications, but to make a general request. We are the Parliament responsible for the territory of this state, so the entire territory of the state and for every citizen of it. We are not a Parliament that will be responsible for some groups, in some places, but for whose state and all citizens of this country. So, to ask this question in relation to all the citizens of this country who participate in wars or war in other countries, so after returning to the security sector and all of this, therefore, which is here in this conclusion. So he's not talking about any qualifications, because if we get into that, then we're going to come into this kind of debate that we're in today. And now I can talk a lot about it. And allow me, please, when we speak, so with the right people ask the question of what the flag of radical Islam means. Does anyone have an answer to that? I don't want Islam to be associated with any terrorism, Islam has nothing to do with terrorism. Who kills an innocent man like he killed the whole world. Those who kill innocent people and call for Islam for me are not Muslims and I, therefore, speak plainly here in this House and say it in public. As far as the participation of BiH citizens in world wars is concerned, that is such an important issue for all of us. Try to remember what we were doing here when we decided to send our soldiers on peace missions in the world. We didn't do it until we passed the law that we arranged this area for. Our military mission, one of our military missions, the BiH Armed Forces, is participation in world peace missions. So, in addition to defending sovereignty, the territorial integrity of BiH, 79 participations in the elimination of the consequences of elemental disasters, etc., is this, therefore, participation in world peace missions. We've rated it so significant, that we've raised it to such a level that the country's presidency makes the decision. Even that is not enough, and that is not enough, but that decision must be confirmed by the Parliamentary Assembly, so both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It's so important to me, everything beyond that, it's problematic for me. So, everything outside of that for me is problematic. I call on BiH citizens not to go and not to war anywhere in the world, because it is neither in their interest nor in the interests of their families, nor in the interests of BiH. Only where the military, the only place BiH citizens can go to peace missions is governed by state law. And it is not, therefore, in the interest of either those people who do it, nor their families, nor BiH states to make them right. But all BiH citizens, and this applies to everything. And I think that the safety of the agency should therefore be taken, measures to see what it is, how it is, etc., even if the legal framework is insufficient for it to work in BiH. And that's the position I took at the Commission's session and that's, therefore, a correct position. And instead of now that we are dealing with the right questions, we are now in a situation here, and we need to be responsible, to be Parliament responsible, we are dealing with these things. Don't let me open a bunch of questions now. Here's a colleague, Prodanović, who felt the need to stand up, because here are two phenomena related to his city or three phenomena to his area, from which he came. What about 100 killings of returnees in RS? With... attacks, what about Murat Babić, what about Melih, if anyone remembers when that girl was murdered, etc., etc. ? The goal, therefore, is today not to politicise this and reach quality conclusions in order for the security situation in BiH to be better next year and for us to carry out the mission that we have as Parliament. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16670	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Borislav Bojić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16671	Mr. Džaferović, very carefully and carefully listened to what you said. By the skill of speech, of course, you tried to relativize terrorism as the most dangerous thing in this whole story. So, the accent in this story is terrorism, and you're using speech skills to drag it all together in the direction in which this debate should be directed, not to dispute the facts you said, because you own that skill, you know. That's my impression listening to you when you were talking. I don't want to talk about it anymore because I just wanted to say the point. So, you've relativated terrorism, so that's the point. And of course, that will keep you going in that sense as you look at the thing. Terrorism is one of the most dangerous things, and it certainly needs to be given special attention, not diminishing the facts you were talking about. But you have, of course, shown by the skill of speech how to draw attention to other things by drawing the topic from the essence of which it was debated in Parliament itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16672	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16673	I would like to say that I understood that part of Mr. Džaferović's speech when he said it wasn't Islam terrorism, and I don't want to bring it into a relationship. True, but we have a report from the State Department pointing to the emergence of radical Islam in BiH. That's what the State Department reports say. And no one has ever stood up to that in BiH. We stand up to it only if someone says it from domestic politicians, then we stand up to it. How much danger do you think there is on one side if some things are fueled? So, the same danger if these things don't show up. Talk and close, actually put your head in the sand and say on that plan nothing happens, it's also a problem. And I've always said the question that will be solved the moment the Bošnjak want to get rid of it, that moment will be resolved. I wish someone of the Bosniak people had shown that will to deal with that problem. You had the Minister of Security, in no way gave the impression, on the contrary. For the first time, here's what's happened is that some security minister, here from the Bosniak people, is talking about things that are related to this area, and for the first time we have a story like this... a story that we can talk about. And that depends most on you, we can't help it much. So, please, it's up to you most. You should give the most support for this because there is no end to this story and no point in putting it until the representatives of the Bosniak people say it – it is an evil that will first hit the Bosniak people's heads.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16674	Thank you. Replication response, esteemed colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16675	So, just a little bit. I spoke very openly here, and I didn't relativize anything at all. Terrorism is a great evil that has never solved a problem anywhere in the world, but produced only new problems. I refused to connect Islam with terrorism, and that's what I said and I stand for it, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16676	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16677	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sometimes it seems to me that this area is so close to me, the whole working life that someone said they spent somewhere on the team, they spent people in different areas, their jobs. And when I thought I knew a lot about this, then I used to be myself, not to question myself, but to the future, and I can't look in isolation, my children. My kids don't live in isolation in suitors, so don't hang out with other kids. And those other kids have to be protected from me and I have to take care of them as well as my children, because that's the system that could work. Is any other of my Jovan the name Safet, Muradif, Jozo, Petar, I never asked him who he was hanging out with. I'm just saying son don't go where it's crowded, that's what a parent says. 81 But to return to the report. So, the general known findings that I've always made here in Parliament when it comes to security, it's a dynamic category, it's not something static. And already all this data from 2012, including the newest data from 2013 have become obsolete with today at 16 hours and 22 minutes. So security is a dynamic category, and most important in that entire segment is never predictable. And I will illustrate it to you and repeat it to those who won't remember it, and for the sake of their personal safety, their families, families, Parliament, I don't know where they are, trams, wherever they are. So no one should rely on security agencies, that they alone will protect their safety. The world's strongest intelligence services can identify potential or perpetrators of terrorist acts by name and last name, their groups, reveal to them maybe cities, warehouses, weapons, but never, ever, ever, if you knew, any of the world's most modern intelligence and security agencies will be able to detect the intentions of these potential terrorist, as they would call them, not terrorists but terrorists, when they are active. That's the point. When they do what they have in their stuffed chipped brain, which for them is a normal thing, because they took probably money, for money they work, or they fight for some ideals. To go back to our reality. Right now, let me say thank you to Mr. Security Minister, Mr. Radončić. And the man gave us this report, which is a good thing, but we need to know the Ministry's jurisdiction, that his competences are small. He gets a report from the RS MUP, the Federal MUP, the Cantonal MUP, the intelligence agencies, the prosecution, everyone, their own advisors, read a little bit in their newspapers, know his journalists a lot, and then... like this. Now what am I proposing? We should start working as some normal countries and not just wait for that calendar when we have some issues there, and I don't agree, I have to do a progression, if someone says we're fighting here. I've never heard of someone insulting here where we'd be asking for an end to Parliament's session for insults. There isn't. But gentlemen, you look like me, a fight of MPs, I'd be fine with those behind my back, there's no one in the front, they killed themselves in Parliament, it's chaos alive. Where is it with us? Not me... Dad, Daca is mine and Dr. Nermina, but I want to make sure that doesn't work. What a fight in Parliament, so this is one peaceful, one collegiate Parliament. That we don't always have the same opinions, so that's logical, we would be, if we had all of us as members of the SNSD because you should think like me. But you'll never be, you won't think like me and what's logical, you don't have to, but I won't think like some other political option and some member, but I'll never be against him, that's his right to let him think. Gentlemen of Bošnjak, it's not my recommendation, from where I come from, but you understand us, there's been a war, I'm the victim of that war, I have a terrible problem, but once you start to understand us here who live, who can't go anywhere, on Mars or on some planet, when the Srbin start to realize friends, not the ones that hug and kiss, where you are, but the way we respect each other as friends who have to go out to the same door, walk into the same door, sit in the same hall. Don't do this like today, it looks like a defense. And I say to you, I say to myself, and also to my colleagues because I know how they perform, so who of the Serbian MPs and politicians has identified you to members of Islam and Bošnjak here in BiH with what they are fighting there today in other countries. You should say so yourself. Hey, people, we have nothing to do with them. Why didn't Šefik Džaferović organize his unit and go down to war? No, he's not. He's gonna have coffee, coffee with me as a friend, Salko Sokolović. It doesn't matter, Sarajlić. We all drink coffee here. Well, they're supposed to be more than me against it, but they say publicly, they're going to condemn it. And I am asking you today, please, never again think that we identify you, 82 when I say you mean the representatives here who are closest to me, who are Bošnjak, members of the Islamic religion, that someone is identifying you with these radical down below who are at war and don't know about anyone, against anyone, for nothing, or for anyone. Come on, but I have to explain this because it's more over my head to put up with it. And you're reading, what's happening to the returnees, so do you remember? The first responds if returner Bošnjak is attacked in any RS city, the media announces. But people can't convict the one who did some work there, and that's one kind of act of terrorism when an innocent man is attacked, if the investigation isn't finished, the court has convicted him, there's no... main, there's no verdict, so can I approach the judiciary and say he's a criminal. I'm just saying, in a statement I always say -- he shouldn't have done it on behalf of the Serbian people and asked security agencies, services, competent institutions to complete the procedure. What you want more from me and from us. So it's a system. Mr. Bećirović, a little patience, what shall I do?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16678	Well, I'd like these categories for us, you guys, to get back to the agenda so we can speed up a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16679	Well, it's all you, us.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16680	There's no us, you, we're all you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16681	Okay, here we go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16682	Oh, well, well, well, well, well,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16683	Here I am together, here I am together, all of us here together. But let's translate it, translate it into trust, not say someone here, so I didn't condemn the one who attacked it there, of course I'm going to condemn it, but I'm going to judge everyone here first. That they would not wait for the Nightingale of the Palace to respond to what the door burned down at the church in the middle of Sarajevo. What do I have to do? I need Mr. Sarajelić to respond here first, and let him call me on the phone if I didn't react that this one there in Zvornik was attacked or guilty or due returner. I condemn that Srbin who did this because he shouldn't have done it in my name or in the name of the Orthodox, or in the name of Bog. And I ask that the competent institutions prosecute him, not me, I cannot condemn him, I have no Corridor of this 5, which this Minister Hadžić is making, so I can get there as soon as possible and see what they're doing. So, if I don't banalize things, we're gonna have to introduce another policy. That we have a thematic security session and that the minister, the closed session, comes here, tells us what the situation is, that the Director of the Intelligence Agency is telling us that the chief prosecutor is telling us. That's what all normal parliaments have. Why do I need this report that's already out of date? Everything changed, which was in 2012 today doesn't look anything like anything, everything changed. A theme session like I was talking about 83 agriculture. Those good things that... the factors bind. The area of security of every living interest doesn't ask him whether his name is Slavko Jovičić or his name is Denis Bećirović, or Fahro Radončić, Minister, or this, or that. We're all here, Mr. Chairman, we, all of us, you, us, and we stayed together when it comes to security to fighting all the monsters that don't even treat this report. That's why I'm giving my best minister support, to carry out these activities, and to once I hear here who don't listen and won't do what I said to Vjeko when he was there for that commission, help him work, right, so Vjeko, we never bring it to the end. So I filed criminal charges, took it directly to the D.A.'s office. You know what he said to me? It's out of date. I'm finishing up, old-fashioned information in 2012, we live in 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16684	I thank my colleague Jovičić. A colleague, Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16685	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, today we have on the agenda information that really represents an extremely quality document, an analytical, comprehensive and I think it confirms actually improving the cooperation of the Ministry of Security with this Parliament. That must be a good sign. What I wanted to point out in front of the SDP Club regarding this information is one aspect, a aspect of security that has recently manifested in a kind of so-called. Transnational crime, and it's about the fact that it's a crime that's being committed in the so-called the intra-corporate exchange, i.e. transactions. So it's about relations between parent companies that have their daughters, branches in BiH. So the phenomenon is related to foreign direct investment and to some manifestations such as transfer prices, such as transactions, capital within companies, within these related companies etc. You know the Zvornik and Ukio Bank of Lithuania case, which has significantly compromised the economic system of BiH, more specifically the RS. And it would be extremely important to train security agencies to, in collaboration with other institutions, primarily for financial operations control, start with the Central Bank through banking and insurance agencies, etc., provide a system and early warning to prevent the worst consequences they can become by, which can occur in the domestic economy. Will it happen tomorrow with Arcelor Mital, with Simos, with Kapis, Ina, Hippo Bank, etc.? These are things that a small country like BiH, so a small country that often does not have defence mechanisms against transnational companies, would have to install into its security system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16686	Thank you. The word has a colleague, Zijad Jagodić. Here you go. I believe you won't be long now, given that they're dropping this discussion about lakes... for diaspora. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16687	I'll try a few sentences. Surely I would not like to comment on the polemics and debates of the predecessors regarding radicalism, but first of all, I would like to point out something that I believe is certainly the result of the general social situation in the country, particularly the economic one, which this House probably didn't take what it takes, this parliamentary one and most of them and one and the other. But as a member of the opposition, I certainly want to make my point. Whether or not she liked it or not is another matter now. However, the problem I have seen reading this report is certainly well known to me, but it can be summed up in several things that, I say, are definitely crucial to the economy. People when they're unemployed, when there's nothing to live on for sure to come up with an idea overnight and go into the business of who he is, where the thought leads him. It's mostly illegal, criminal, etc. The evidence is from these tables, which we've seen, that crime is less on the rise. However, I am concerned that, above all, the increase of criminals in organised crime is up to 40%. I often ask questions about the administration of indirect taxation when it comes to, let's see, the problem of trade, the cross-border oil trade, which is shown as imports of oil. It's about tens of millions of marks, it's a big deal. So, we don't have security in that part. If with such revenues, such taxes could certainly have a different situation on the ground, at least by which percentage they would decrease. The second thing is that, through the tender reports, tenders are practically the biggest and weakest point of our economy that is reflected through everything, both the public and private sectors. Practically the most complaints, the most lawsuits, the most problems, the most crime, and there's something we should do about it. Another thing about non-payment of taxes, contributions, and even a commitment to creditors is one of the major problems that again concerns crime. I believe not only organized but also personal. What I'd like to do here, for example, in health care, is seen, I can say, in all of BiH. To point out only one thing that many doctors are practically working in public institutions, extremely well-insured, at least at least they are provided as their standard classification practically allows them. But practically they are also great specialists to have their own laboratories in their private homes and eventually force patients to come to them unless they want to be on the agenda in 2015 or 2016 at the University Clinical Center of a region, etc. I think it's necessary here... As for imports of suspicious drugs, bad food, we witnessed a few years ago importing rotten milk from certain companies from the environment. But now the problem is how to resuscitate it, how to neutralize it. And it's basically every supplier, or every producer, in their own way, composing it. But according to the recommendations I've been reading, this form of neutralization is also extremely harmful. What it's going to reflect on, I think this is part of the security, too, to pay particular attention to. I'm also worried about the increase in illicit weapons and explosive materials. However,... the murder of people, here before we mentioned certain parts of BiH where people in some way feel insecure, no matter what religion, which nations, etc. I'm sure it also contributes to 85 arming themselves, mostly illegal. In that part, however, we must do as much as possible to improve the safety of all citizens. What I particularly wanted to point out, however, is that here is the minister of transport and communication, but I wanted to ask him myself, to remind him that every year in BiH between 300 and 350 BiH citizens die. More than 10,000 traffic participants are practically acquired, it's practically with minor physical injuries. About 1,500 people involved in traffic get serious physical injuries. All this is reflected in this financial, economic, social, social, virtually negative part of our country. But these are the things that I would like to do in the next period, as the predecessors said, that through certain public debates... let's do as much as possible to sort of fix these things and to that extent reduce as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16688	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16689	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, on the issue of security information in BiH, I have a need to say a few words, although the predecessors who participated, both in discussions and in replicas, would hear a lot, and I think that, in fact, they are already through the opinion of the commission, meaning the Joint Defence and Security Committee, some conclusions are listed here, and in any case I fully support these conclusions. But here's what I'd say before that, I looked back at this document that's right here in front of all of us. I must say that this is an extraordinary information that we all know better or less well about the state of security at BiH level. We can, however, learn from this document about the situation in all areas treated by the Ministry of Security along with its agencies, starting with SIPA, OSA, this Department of Foreign Affairs, Border Police and all some international organisations dealing with the protection of persons and material goods and the state of BiH. There were words here in some way that in BiH there is a presence or fear of terrorism. In any case, it is necessary to speak very clearly and decadently about this and do not need terrorists potential and those who really are should not be classified as religious, national or other species, but they are, in the right sense, the words of terrorists in order to achieve their goals. They're killers, they're criminals to do certain jobs for themselves or for certain groups behind them. I may mention people dangerous, what the law says, who are all the time in conflict with the law and living in the territory of Herzegovina, which is in some way, I don't know, 80%, looking from Stoc to Livna, 80% are the biggest and most dangerous types of Croatian people there. They are not of the order of the Bosniaks, they are not from the order of the Serbians, but they are the biggest criminals who are dangerous to the entire community, and they are very much tied to criminals who live and work in Trebinj, Montenegro, Podgorica, Niksic, and beyond the border, across the Drina, and then these routes of drug trafficking, weapons and soot for Croatia, for Zagreb, further for Slovenia and Austria. But it is also mentioned here in this report, and I see that in its 86 conclusions, this Commission has proposed something like this, and I am responsible for saying that these people, who are dangerous in the social order in BiH, are, in its security order, all citizens regardless of their national, national and religious membership, so they are in control. It's here and listed. Well, here on page 19, this reads and sees these characters and I know the problems of people who work here, says because of the heavy theft of passenger motor vehicles, counterfeiting of IDs, typeing of boxes, reselling of alienated motor vehicles and a series of other crimes why there were basic suspicions that they committed a crime organized in Article 250. KZ BiH. Suspects are committed to the continued apprehension of the handling prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office who released them. So, these guys, when they bring them to the D.A.'s office, they often get a tip or a living room, and then they come to Jablanica for a roast, the ones they left up here before they got to Hercegovina, and then they call them on the phone that they've already come back. That's the facts. One of these criminal groups is now in custody, so I had a chance to talk to people, responsible people, above all to the Western-Herzegovina Police Commissioner, who was guarded by police for about two months because they threatened him by leaving a bullet on his doorstep in a letter, etc., and they were protected absolutely from individual agencies from the state level, including neighbouring and neighbouring states, with a reason that they are doing certain security jobs... And these people deal with terrorism, setting up explosive devices for county judges, stealing vehicles. And then if you want to report a car theft, they stole my brother's car worth 20,000 marks four months ago, so don't accidentally report it to the police, then you'll never find it, but various groups that deal with it. But here, ever since these gentlemen have been in custody, I have to tell you that there are three or four months of space none of the cars have been stolen down there. And this group exists, they're not here yesterday, they exist from last year, slaughtered, I haven't known since. But now it seems that someone is bold, if there is in it, here is the Minister of Security and these agencies all honor them, so they have my commendation, support in the work, means to improve their work and further whether, and further action in the next period. Here, I'm saying it's kind of the facts that we live with, we're aware of it, because we don't need to, these criminals don't need to classify what religions are, what nationalities, what nationalities, color of the skin, because they are, in one word, criminals, dangerous types for all of us here and for the environments in which they live, and in which they act, and they're wider whether. Because I'm saying if he's afraid of people like this the first man in the police department, who I know is brave and bold, then an objective problem in the state. Then you can imagine how an ordinary man would get... So if you leave them, I don't know either, in the cantonal prosecution these guys keep them for three hours and then let them go, because they never filed any criminal charges against them because they can't, simply because they're tied to them, for which reason I don't know. And so when we speak, I would like here, as my colleague Jovičić said, to have one thematic session of Parliament, to mean the security situation in BiH, the whole of its space, to be prosecutors, not only, I don't know, state prosecutors to be other prosecutors, to be directors of the police and the RS and the Federation and the cantonal minister of security that we, here in some cases, are asking questions and to discuss. The tendency and goal of all of us is to improve the security situation in BiH, to make BiH citizens feel safe on every part of its land, no matter what its name is. I think in that direction we should all discuss and support the agencies involved, I say, in the security situation in BiH. 87 Of course it's interesting what counterpart Džaferović said, analyzed, I see in 2012 in this report the number of killings in BiH has increased. I advise, here's the Ministry of Security that, because I heard a recent statement, here's tomorrow's trial I think to the president of the Federation for possession of an illegal gun, who said that people keep machines at home. Well, right for the machines at home, it would simply be necessary for the state to buy those machines and all possible weapons that someone holds unauthorized, illegal and undeclared, not to be punished, but to give them, I don't know, 100 or 200 for that gun to hand over. Maybe the stimulant will be that money so he doesn't keep it somewhere in the basement, I don't know either, or in the garage, or in some joke is whether, who are from the village know what a joke is. So in this way we stimulate and hand over such weapons, and in this way we would certainly reduce the potential dangers of being wounded or possibly some kind of murder. I'm sorry that the minister of transport and communications went here when we talk about crime whether crime is an integral part of BiH's institutions. We have the latest affair with the construction of a bridge on the Sava River in Svilaj where no contract was signed with a contractor who was reportedly delayed, deliberately or unintentionally, with that contract. I know the media minister said he'd talk about it, but here's the good news today if he told us who was responsible for suing us for 5 million marks. I'm sure he'll get it in court, but the human factor is... that we know what it's about. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16690	Thank you. And I would really invite you, you all know what the agenda is, to try to focus, if at all possible. I'm not gonna limit the debate, but that in about 4-5 maximum minutes to bring down the discussion. This does not apply, of course, to the next debater, the word has an MP Adnan Bašić, but is a general suggestion for all MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16691	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but I've been thinking a little too much about listening to all this. Some words are very difficult for me here, which have been spoken, as a man. But on the other hand, as an old man, I forgive youth and a hasty and often ugly policy that is being shown here. I highly doubt that everyone believes exactly what they have said and that is the salvation and hope of all of us, that it is just a momentary and daily policy. When we talk about the security of a state, and this is about national security, we are the state Parliament, the State Security Minister's report. Just as I was waiting for you to call me to say a few words for those much younger than me, and for some who are close to my age, they may not know, playing with the epithet of terrorists and terrorism, it's very dangerous. Like terrorism today, and before, and always, is the most dangerous thing that happens in every social political arrangement. Only one segment that confirms this, terrorism is the most dangerous human activity that is impossible to control, absolutely impossible. And that's why I was reminded of my life experience, when I learned what terrorism was, in the late '60s, when the bogeyman of terrorism took place in Evropa, and here you can see to this day. It started in Madrid when, in the middle of Madrid's main street, they blew up a armored car, it seems to me that chief of Bjanko, chief of the Madrid Police, 88 of course Bask, and then it started with the Roso brigades in Italy, when they killed the prime minister after the kidnapping, in Western Germany... it shone with fear and panic, and in 1969 and in ex Yugoslavia, and in our BiH, this terrorism came. It began with the setting up and burning of forests during the tourist season in the Adriatic, and by putting a bomb in the main train station in Zagreb, then the bomb in the cinema "21. October" in Belgrade and in the end as a big finale in which unfortunately, all of us here who were then in the army participated, the appearance of a terrorist group of 19 people from Australia, you know, those who lived then know very well what was going on. So terrorism is something much more than what we're talking about here and much more dangerous than what we're talking about. The whole country, the whole country, must fight terrorism. Not an individual, not an institution, not a security service, the entire state, because it's the cancer of today's society. And just to tell you one more thing, I deeply believe that the Ministry of Security that has currently had a very good success in many of these parts of the Reports that we have read, and I am deeply convinced that if we support this work of our Ministry of Security, here you see and the prosecution has finally and definitely sobered up and realized that it has to work and play the role it was intended for, and deeply, I am convinced that in the next period, a large number of unsolved cases, these which we now have still and are related to the most dangerous types of crime, and the one that someone has spoken of because of me stealing, thieving and fearing crime against this poor and harassed people, because for me these are bigger thieves than those who rob banks and money, who steal and what little poverty we have left after the war. I'd give them more punishment than these pears steal from banks. And I am deeply convinced that with our support and heartfelt help, and not the kind of things that have happened today, please help to bring security to this country for each of its inhabitants the right measure that we finally and definitely deserve. We've had enough of everything, every form of terrorism, we've gone over our heads. It's time for at least some generations to have peace, security, a beautiful and safe life in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16692	Thank you. Ambassador Niko Lozančić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16693	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Here, I'm going to try a slightly different angle to look at this information because we have information about the state of security in BiH and she, I must say, has well satisfied the title she is wearing. So I think we have a lot of information about this coffee being a state of security, here in 2012, although I think it's more or less like it, and here we are now discussing the overall state of security. Why are these information being delivered to us here in Parliament? First, to be informed about a very important aspect of social life in BiH, means the overall state of security of all citizens, institutions, constitutional order etc. And the second, and perhaps more important reason why we are being provided with such information is that the institutions that work on law enforcement, which are in the system responsible for the state of security, ask for Parliament's support in adopting potentially better, better quality, more operational, as you will, legal regulations as a better tool in the hands of the institutions, to make the state of security even better than it is. 89 We have a finding in this Information that, despite all the assessments of individual occurrences, the state of security is satisfactory and I will agree with that assessment. I am not going to deal with individual forms of crime in BiH, but I am going to say something on a few examples of how in just one day we look slightly differently at our role in this system. This morning, we had before us a proposal to supplement the Criminal Procedure Act, which is the consequence of the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision, in which some colleagues had a problem with the fact that the court would be able to assess when and in what case to determine detention, which is not explicitly prescribed by law, etc. Today we have heard, through a debate on this agenda point, that certain particularly dangerous forms of crime are being exhibited and may most effectively prevent both preventively and repressively by putting the protagonists of this and such crime in custody. Among other things, and therefore an institution of detention is foreseen. So when, I saw in this information that the Ministry has prepared one, here's to say a series of legislation that will further improve the effectiveness of the security system in BiH in the fight against certain forms of crime. I think I understand that in the proposal for a bill on money laundering, there is a bill on the ban on the financing of terrorist organisations. And here, I don't know if I've registered any other law that's being prepared. It would be good in this Information, for easier monitoring, for easier understanding, for the sake of more operational and our roles in all of this, that at the end of this Information, which is common, we have received a proposal for possible conclusions and a proposal for possible measures that we as a legislative body can do in this sphere, not to slow down these conclusions of our Committee, but I must say... more looks like representative issues, I think, because there is a question of the Ministry of What's going to do with this, what are you going to do with this. We can ask that through counseling questions each and every one of us. Today would be essential if we were to say, to bring the evaluation, because this is the Security Information, whether the state of security is satisfactory, as the Information says. Here, I've made my point. So the conclusion - the state of security is satisfactory. Is the security system that we have in BiH today sufficiently capacitated, sufficiently humanised, technically trained enough to deal with all forms of crime that today are significant and have a significant impact on the security situation in BiH. Now, about that we don't have a lot of answers here, because that's, with us being treated like a hot political issue, then everyone's running away from being accidentally in the sphere of politics. Is this system, so it can respond to security challenges, and I think it's numbered here, most of all, that they're all or less, here's to say, they're never all, the largest number of these security challenges? There are things that security agencies can't influence. They cannot affect the increase in the number of employees in BiH, they cannot affect the increase in wages, they cannot affect the increase in pensions. They can't affect the fact that already a little bit, I think last month, there was a suspension of pension payments in the Federation for a few days for some reason, to that fact. And these are facts, these are aspects, these are situations that have a significant impact on the general security situation. Unfortunately, they can't influence either how we from this hall or similar halls are going to spread the climate about the situation in BiH, because as much as we think or complain that here's the media don't carry it, some sort of miracle citizens are still informed, especially about the stronger ones, under the allegations, statements, which, I must say, don't exactly contribute to stabilisation or a stable security situation. And they cannot influence, realistically speaking, the political opportunities in BiH that are also strong have a strong impact on the overall security situation. 90 I'd say, with the support of the ministry's efforts, because we've established here in this Information that there's been improved cooperation between a number of security agencies. On the one hand, it is good, but if this cooperation is not prescribed as an obligation by law, if it depends, as it is said here, on the staff changes in one ministry and another, I am not sure that we have a lasting security situation. So, we need a legally lastingly guaranteed security status, and we need a security system that can meet these challenges. And not to be overlooked, there's a grade here that might be standing, I have to say, but I'm going to take it right with the reserve, that some parts of the government, although here I don't even know what reason it's skipped legislation, but the executive and judicial authority is mentioned, tied to organised criminal groups. I won't claim it is or isn't. However, this assessment without a strong argument about information is a little risky for me. I'm afraid we don't devalue the dangers with such severe grades, we don't devalue the problem as a problem, because it's easy to pronounce. You know there, now I translate like this freely, there are executives, and executives are ministers, executives are directors of some agencies and the judiciary, they're your judges and prosecutors, they're tied to some organized criminal groups. I can't agree with that assessment, I can't agree with it as a general assessment. In order to possibly individual cases, such cases must be justified and processed. And to put cases like that in the Information, I'm afraid it's a little too strong, because we shouldn't have that grade, these are hard grades, we shouldn't devalue them. So even when there is, we have to stand up to it. The question that has been discussed here, beware terrorism is a global global problem and it is not the problem of BiH, nor is it a problem in BiH, nor is NATO a problem in BiH, it exists in the world. And it's just a question of how many of our institutions, how much we've all been trained to fight it together. That's question number one to me, so are we or aren't we? We can ensure a better commitment of security agencies, if we can respond more effectively to all the challenges, if we can provide better equipment, we can provide, here's why not, and better wages that are miserable in the security system, we can provide an even better, more professional and independent judicial system. Well, let's see how. What laws need to be changed which ones to fix. And here's what I think is supposed to be our answer. In any case, the information is very relevant to me, and here is the flaw in me, which there are no these proposals in the final part of the proposals for conclusions, not questions about certain things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16694	Thank you. And last reported, the word has an MP named Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16695	Okay, here I am, like, it's hard to say something new now about the information on the state of security in BiH, but I can say that it gives a series, a series of this kind of data, and it's impossible to repeat some things, but here's the suggestion of the chairman to stick to at least 5 minutes of discussion, to respect and to go to some concrete things. 91 I think the methodology for making this information is good, because it really gives us one state review. What we might consider as MPs and as Parliament, look, this is the end of August of the month we are discussing the 2012 Information. And indeed, when we look at some data here, little, we all worry, so we don't look at who's the minister, what's the option in power, who's the position, who's the opposition, because the state of security in BiH is also interested in ordinary citizens. I believe they get this information in order to worry a little bit more about us, but we know the specificity of BiH's work and problems and everything else, so maybe we're looking at it a little differently. What I'd like the minister to underline is a parallel, I know this is the 2012 report, but I also know that in 2013 he's going to get there before the elections, to tell us globally now what kind of data he's got, are we going to get better, are some indicators fixing here, or are we going to argue again when we're all here wondering that there's an increase in certain negativity through these numbers and percentages? Here, what I'm worried about is, let's say, committing a crime of laundering money. He says it's even higher 84% compared to 2011, and then worse this item that says he has no idea there was funding for terrorist activities and there were no suspicious transactions, which then encourages me. But here it says, we have this increase by 84%. So where it goes, how it goes, it's a good thing it doesn't go into terrorism, but this is a big real item. I wish this was expressed in some global number, but here, it's probably there in the report, it's not me, I'm looking at this short version. Then I'm a little interested, he says -- corruption crimes are up 14.3%. And what I'm particularly concerned about, because of young people, because of young generations, is that the number of crimes involved in drugs, and we always have some action in society to prevent this evil, that it's increased by 10.3%. And then the increase in human trafficking by 25% in BiH, so in a small country like this by 25%, it's really this kind of indicator that upsets you. I didn't mean to discuss it, but when I saw this information like this, it was really alarming. I know the Ministry's taking over, I know the agencies are taking over, but this is a state of play. There's something and good, here, says the number so-called cut. Hatred crime, or... national, racial and religious intolerance, means it's down 66%. Is that, now I have no comparison there in 2011 and 2012. In these things, he would ask the minister, I know it's impossible, and he doesn't have to if he can't give the information, but to say whether or not some of the indicators for 2013 are saying that at least in these areas there's some progress. I know that here you need a wider society action, especially when it comes to increasing crimes in the area of drugs and everything else. Here, I like the information methodologically, but I have to stay on this part where my colleague Lozančić says – some parts of the authorities are related to organised crime. I think it's alarming and that there should be no commissions here, if there's any knowledge that these are some parts of the government then there's got to be some concreteisation, because you can't just say some parts of the government. Let's see who they are, let's open this story, and I think it's for the benefit of the citizens of BiH if we don't cover things up, no matter how painful it is, whatever the party is and whatever the individual is. I think that the information, in addition to these conclusions of the Commission to be corrected, can be accepted and accepted and I think we must give all support to all agencies and the ministry, so that the security of the citizens of BiH in the coming period is as good as possible and that all BiH citizens feel safe. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16696	I thank Ambassador Amir Fazlić. I close the 12th item of the agenda, and I apologize for the word there, Vice-President of the House of Representatives, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16697	Thank you. I know it's frustrating to talk or discuss at the end, but believe me, I'm frustrated with the discussion we had on this agenda point for two hours. I am frustrated because we did not interrupt the debate at the beginning of the debate and asked the minister, who had been there since the beginning, to come out to explain the Information and to give us answers to the question the Commission has provided us here and for the first time to vote for the conclusions that are in the form of a question. And to answer me, if he can't answer, why didn't the Commission answer those questions or ask the Commission if they asked the Minister on the committee these questions? And that after that everything we discussed here, we failed to make a single conclusion, beyond what the Commission has made other than the conclusion of the SDA which corrects the Commission's conclusions. What have we done to our colleagues and colleagues for the last two hours, what have we discussed here, and what have we concluded? We have concluded that we will strengthen the Commission's conclusions, namely their questions towards the minister who will deliver in the form of an answer after 30 days, and we have not asked the Commission why not ask, and would get from the Kolegijum to postpone the debate on this subject, while the minister will answer these questions and then the Commission will make certain conclusions that would reasonably discuss here, what should be done to ensure that the security situation in this country, which is not good, is corrected. So I don't have any conclusions, I just have a finding that I'm frustrated with what we've done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16698	I'm closing 12. Dot. We're going to the 13th item of the agenda, Ad.13. BiH Security Minister Fahrudin Radončić's statement on the allegations and claims he made in the Vecernji list "Ozor" 18.05.2013 against BiH presidency member Bakir Izetbegović and Party of Democratic Action (realising SDA MPs' initiative, adopted at the 50th session, held on 18.07.2013) So this is about realising the adopted initiative. Security Minister Mr. Fahrudin Radončić was invited to the session, he is here at the session, the initiative was delivered to him as well. I think we should open this point, first of all, that from now on, I guess the head of the SDA Club first hears what the purpose is, the meaning, what are the effects of the expected debate, and then here are the ministers. Here you go. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16700	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, the purpose of the initiative is and was to have Mr. Minister at the session and to declare, as the first word says, the statement by the Minister of Security, Mr. Radončić. So, we personally neither Mr. Izetbegović nor Mr. Radončić are interested as individuals, but the bearers of very important functions in this country, and the interview Mr. Radončić gave as the minister of this country is, and quotes and copies of that interview you received in this initiative, so we would like to hear the minister and then be made manifest accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16701	Thank you. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16702	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16703	The word has Asim Sarajlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16704	Mr. Minister, I think you got this initiative and this material, this was 23.05 here in the Assembly at this session, it came, so to your cabinet, but here's no problem I'll read. So on the basis of Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives Club of Members of the SDA submits the following parliamentary initiative: – We propose that at the first next session of the House of Representatives, the agenda item reads: The statement by BiH Minister of Security Fahrudin Radončić on the allegations and claims he made in Vecernji list "Ozor" from 18.05.2013 against members of the BiH Presidency, Mr Bakir Izetbegović, and Party of Democratic Action. Reason: Since he was elected member of the BiH presidency, Mr Bakir Izetbegović, the media whose founder, Fahrudin Radončić, has hardly slandered more than 500 times. All this is done with the aim of political discrediting Mr Izetbegović and revenge for the election defeat of Fahrudin Radončić as a member of the BiH presidency in the 2010 General Elections. However, in the Vecernji list "Ozor" magazine of 18.05.2013, so this is not a problem before, Fahrudin Radončić, as BiH Security Minister, stated and claimed: 1. That the SDA is in possession of black party funds illegal and illegal, that BiH presidency member Mr. Izetbegović, linked to the Bosniak state mafia and secret Muslim services, that the Bosniak mafia killed Joza Leutar, Nedžad Ugljanin, the Sefer Halilović family, committed a number of politically motivated murders and crimes against returnees in Central Bosnia. That the secrets of the Muslim service participated in war and war corruption 94 frauds. Nedžad Ugljanin went directly before the liquidation to the newsroom and claimed he would be liquidated by Bakir Izetbegović. That Ramiz Delalić Ćelo, in an interview with "Free Bosnia", which he published in subshumously, announced that Bakir Izetbegović would liquidate him. Since it is a heavy slander given by the BiH Minister of Security whose words have a special weight, but also responsibility for being said, estimating that all this is directed towards a BiH presidency member and one of the most influential political parties in BiH, it is necessary to discuss this issue at a special point in the daily session of the House of Representatives. This inadmissible and inappropriate relationship between the security minister and the head of state has not been recorded in any democratic state, especially the country that claims to become a member of the EU and NATO. This inevitably damages the reputation of the state and the credibility of its institutions. We have also provided a copy of this interview, Mr. Radončić, in the magazine "Ozor". So, we just wanted to hear the minister's statement on these allegations that were made in this interview. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16705	Okay. The word has a minister of security, Mr. Fahrudin Radončić. Here you go. And before the minister takes the floor, I must say that this copy you delivered, none of the MPs can use it. You can't even decrypt what's written with the increasers.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16706	I'll read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16708	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs. I really think today is an important day for political killings in BiH to be discussed at such a high level. I am pleased that the SDA has initiated this topic and our MP SBB has gladly accepted it, not because I believe that every state official or MP who is to interview here should explain whether something is true or not, therefore there are courts, there are litigation cases, but because it is a taboo topic. And I am very sorry today, too, but I am disabled in this debate that Mr. Bakir Izetbegović is not sitting here, and there are no families of people who are politically or politically liquidated. I think that would have made a little more sense at first. I can say that in that interview I just said that the Bosniak mafia, and that I consider it responsible for many things, that I mentioned some points, and now I'm going to try to answer to the esteemed colleagues of the SDA tax. The first question is, does the SDA have black financial funds, illegal and illegal? You know it could stretch here for hours. I'm going to have a debate that's been conducted before, and she's got some international tensions, see if she can be as modest as possible, which doesn't mean I won't be direct. You assess what this means. This is the "Reflect" of OBN, to take the final example not to mention "New York Times", not to mention 95, not to mention many affairs. There were editors, footage was released, Mr Senad Avdić, Nino Raspudić, Veselin Gatalo and Esad Hećimović, speech by Bakir Izetbegović, a member of the presidency, held during this year's Ramadan. So, I'm choosing the latest example. He's here talking about how Islam is etc. The threatened, brutal regimes kill musliman, and so, it's all fine, and it's all political qualifications with which we don't need to have sex at all, but here's what he says. He talks about Erdoan, Turkey, that we are their pride and says – So what they are doing will only strengthen him, he remembered us at this time when he had the right to do himself. And the next sentence is, and you can find it in the video, very explicitly – over 800,000 marks were given for 20,000 packages that have been shared by the SDA all over BiH these days, period. So he wanted to keep an eye on our people, to show that he remembered him and to show our people who he was working with and who he was supposed to rely on, his Party of Democratic Action, of course. I'm here asking my dear friends from the SDA, if this is a black fund, if this is reported to the Central Election Commission. If a government or one state wants to help a religious community, should it not work through cardatistic organizations such as Merhamet or possibly through the Islamic community, rather than through the U.S.A. Not to mention other information, some other facts, if we need to talk about things since Ambassador Beri was here, warned the New York Times, etc. Furthermore, I fear that the questions of the SDA are such that they must be answered specifically. You know that a video of the collection of humanitarian aid has appeared outside BiH institutions where Mrs. Izetbegović, rickets, collects huge amounts of gold, money and all of this is documented. Did that enter the BiH state internally? Has anyone introduced or kept track of, records, that in Budget BiH? How that gold, jewelry, etc. The sale? Who were those commissions that did this? Was this directed to the citizens of BiH and what made it to the citizens of BiH? I'll watch to be very precise. No, Mr. Sarajlić, jealous of Mr. Bakir Izetbegović beating me as a member of the presidency. You all know the difference between the two of us was 20,000 votes. You all know that 75,000 votes were cancelled to me by writing on my ballots a question mark and a shout sign or Mr. Željko Komšić. I'm too much of a realized man to take revenge on someone because he was elected member of the presidency. It's not my idea to go into politics to be a member of the presidency. It's something to do and build. Whether BiH member Bakir Izetbegović is connected to the Bosniak state mafia and secret Muslim services, I did not say it so explicitly first, and I personally think so. I don't know what the problem is. Take the texts, since you are referring to the texts from "Avaz", here are the texts, I can even quote you, I will look to be very brief: "Free Bosnia" in 18.12.2008, death, or Ismet Bajramović, say killed that man, was sentenced to 20 years, thanks to being seen in the company of Bakir Izetbegović, a man is released. You have Edin Garaplija, his testimony to the Supreme Court who clearly says that it is a public secret that just about Izetbegović the younger gathered the team never officially but therefore the present Bosniak secret service etc. Examples like this, you have Mr. Bakir's interview, as is called, "Pardon Balijagić", which Bakir Izetbegović said led an operation to destroy evidence of crimes. I can quote things like this to you as much as I want, but I'll see that I'm just more specific about those questions that you've taken from an interview that you obviously haven't read and you've made specific, but that doesn't bother me. Is Mr. Bakir Izetbegović connected to the murder of Mr. Joza Leutar? Here, I'll read you a copy that was published in the media and that was part of the investigation. In 96 1999, the "Days" released a statement on who would kill an unpleasant witness, Arman Jašarević, who, as a key detail after the death of Leutar, presented a meeting on March 3, 1999, Leutar killed on March 16th, citing the possibility that Bakir Izetbegović ordered the murder of Joza Leutar in a telephone conversation with Ismet Bajramović Ćel, who was attended by another five people, and the promised reward for Leutar's death was to be 100,000 marks per participant, a total of half a million. You have such texts as you like, you have some statements before the courts, etc. I am very sorry that there must be a very precise answer, the question of whether, say, Mr. Nedžad Ugljan went directly before the winding-up in the newsroom and claimed to have been liquidated by Bakir Izetbegović. Here, I will tell you, because I called for it to be so, I will show you the texts of “Day” that meant “Free Bosnia” 16/06/2005 and the original text from “Day” October '96. which I will be free to read you the beginning and two points. A month before Nedžad Ugljen's death on the street stopped Senad Pećanin, then the editor-in-chief of "Our Magazine" this is their text, quite nervous, slightly unrelated and without its characteristic black mustache, in this conversation announced his murder, etc. You have everything, so I didn't lie about it. The man went to the newsrooms, the man, not only went to the newsrooms, but he warned others that he would be liquidated. Here are the other texts, these are the texts related to an investigation conducted by our state and cantonal prosecutors. Izetbegović was sick when he was suggested that the investigation into the murder of Ugljan lead Munir Alibabić. I see here a picture of Mr. Muratović, who was then the federal prime minister who wrote six text cards and begged to reveal the murder of an assistant minister. We can also talk about other things. When the murder of the family of the then chief of staff is Mr. Halilović's I'll just read you two sentences three. For 20 years, July 07th was the murder, his son on the portal, his uncle or djjjj and mother were killed, says that July 07th and so, attempted murder of the entire Halilović family because we were supposed to meet at lunchtime, a family reunion, which members of the secret police saw as a great opportunity to kill our entire family. So the next title was - The ubistvo of Sefer Halilović could only be ordered by Alija Izetbegović. And you know that the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office is opening a major investigation into "Ševa“ and he literally says, I will be very clear – the murder of General Sefer Halilović could have been ordered or approved only by Alija Izetbegović, and in details of the overall operation against Halilović, Bakir Sadović was involved. When it comes to Bakir Izetbegović, he has until today, when it comes to crediting himself, always puts in place first to Ali. Well, if that's what he's saying, then let him take that title when it comes to responsibility. I think we have more of those kinds of statements, documents, witnesses, criminal charges. From everything that's not the point. The point is, gentlemen of the U.S.A., that I, as Minister of Security, must encourage the public to speak openly, transparently. Our Agency for Law Implementation and the Prosecutor's Office to finally, as was done in Serbia or some other countries, and we discover politically motivated killings. It deserves the Coglen family, it deserves the Leutar family, it deserves the Halilović family, it deserves those who killed "Ševa", and some deserve it on "Kazan", etc. If anyone thinks that reporting to this Parliament will discourage me, believe me, they won't. I'm asking for your support, I'm not afraid of you, to open this topic to the end. Someone picked up, 97, don't just stay with Bošnjak, somebody blew up and Mr. Željkokopanje car. But the fact is, in 20 years, we've done everything we can to keep these killers from being discovered. And here you have, not to quote them to you or to quote them to you if you ask, statements by Mr Hasan Muratović, who was the federal prime minister and who was godfather, pleading to reveal the murder of his assistant. If we want to go to the EU, if we want to truly deal with crime and corruption, our key police officers must know that their potential murderers will one day reveal themselves. A society or a people who are unable to deal as the greatest victim of war with those who have beaten us as Bošnjak, there is no room to walk on earth. If you want me to read to you now what I said in "The Evening List", it's very short. They asked who was afraid of the Bosniak mafia? - They're the ones who killed the late Joza Leutar, as Deputy Minister of the Interior of RBiH or Mr. Nadžad Ugljen, who was the high-ranking head of Intelligence. It is a Bosniak state mafia that has behind it the murder of the family of BiH Army Commander Sefer Halilović and the mafia that has 10 other political and interestingly motivated murders or unexplained crimes against Hrvat returnees in Central Bosnia. Who recognizes himself here, why is it recognized, what's press equipment, I don't care. I'm talking about it, I'm not a judge, Mr. Bakir Izetbegović sued me for slander, he'll have a chance to make his arguments and I'll have a chance to say mine. These arguments are the answer to your question whether someone went to the offices or didn't go to the offices. You also have a post-mortem interview by Ćele Delalić, who was published five days after he died, I can also show him to you and read him, where he practically says these things that Bakir Izetbegović knew about the murder of Coglen. You have 50 details that are here in the files. It's my assessment that this place shouldn't be burdened with it, but I'm absolutely ready for any kind of questions, explanations and explanations. I don't mind Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, I'm against having an era that lasts 25 years, it started in '90. the year, regardless of whether it was across the premises of his father's cabinet, the vice president of the party, the para-intelligence centre, has to stop. We have very capable agencies, we have a very capable Parliament, we are institutionally very strong, there is no reason not to encourage prosecutors to clarify these political murders. I am not saying that in the end it will be Bakir Izetbegović, although it is obvious that the cover-up of the investigation, the intimidation of witnesses, the replacement of police officers, etc., there are too many elements here that say there was and that there are now shorter Bosniak state mafias. And I won't be afraid to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16709	A colleague, Sarajlić, signed up. You have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16710	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, everything you Mr. Minister said here, I sign. So, in the fight for the rule of law, for building a system, etc. Here you have responded to some other interviews from Avaza, from "Bosnia", from "Day" and so on. That's exactly what the initiative wanted ours to show. So, you are not you, Mr. Fahrudina Radončić, here 98 owner, founder of the largest newspapers in BiH, you are not a publicist, journalist, etc., you are here as Minister of Security. Bakir Izetbegović is not only the son of Alija Izetbegović or some SDA-oc, Bakir Izetbegović is a member of the BiH presidency. We here in the initiative are talking about protecting the institutions of the system. So, all that you brought to us today, you were supposed to forward as a security minister to certain agencies, as you said he was suing you for slander, you were supposed to collect it as a minister and direct it to the agencies of this system, that is, the BiH security system to process it. And we'd say hello, we'd always say hello to everyone, both for Bakir and for me and for anyone from the U.S.A. Who's to blame for what he's responsible for. So we're not going to stop behind any of the culprits. But it's obvious that this pre-election rhetoric and what you said today doesn't stop. We want a responsible security minister who will meet his obligations and, if necessary, here's what we need to process. So I would suggest 2.3 conclusions in front of the SDA Club, here's probably some other colleagues. So, we propose to the House of Representatives to condemn these allegations and claims made by the Minister of Security, Mr Radončić, in the Vecernji list magazine that has hardly slandered BiH presidency member Mr Izetbegović and the Party of Democratic Action. The security minister's behaviour towards the head of state, the collective head of state, one of the most influential parliamentary political parties, is an inappropriate and inadmissible act that has not been recorded in any democratic state, especially in a country that predicates to become a member of the EU and NATO alliance. This inevitably damages the reputation of the state and the credibility of its institutions. So we're not talking about people, private persons, Mr Radončić and Izetbegović. They are the instruments of the BiH system and they are the most responsible, I can say, today's Bosniak positions in this country, meaning member of the presidency and minister of security. So, although I know, here from this presentation, at one stage and Mr. Radončić was part of the system and if not co-operated with Mr. Izetbegović, they may have once been house friends, but that doesn't matter at all, we are talking about the Minister of Security and a member of the BiH Presidency today. And under 3rd, they would suggest that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, for the sake of such behaviour, take the law of the Radončić measures of responsibility, thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16711	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16712	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. It is indeed a very important event in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, because we do not often have the opportunity to discuss relations within the BiH government, relations and respect for the elemental rules in the functioning of the government. So this is an opportunity. I have carefully read the interview of BiH Security Minister Radončić, who was given to Vecergnje list "Ozor" and published on 18.05.2013 and practically listened carefully to today's presentation of 99 Security Ministers, Mr Fahrudin Radončić. That's two very different things. And from that I conclude that the Minister of Security, Mr Fahrudin Radončić, has also been convinced that in his interview since 18.05.2013, he went beyond the framework of the BiH State Security Minister. When this interview is carefully looked at and analysed, the claims listed in the SDA parliamentary initiative, which are said to have been imputed to the SDA and to Mr Bakir Izetbegović, a member of the BiH presidency by the security minister, have nothing special to add because they stand. Because indeed from this interview, as directly as possible, Mr. Fahrudin Radončić argued, so he stated that the SDA has had the black party funds illegal and illegal, that BiH Presidency member Bakir Izetbegović was linked to the Bosniak state mafia and secret Muslim services, that the Bosniak mafia killed Joza Leutar, Nedžad Ugljen, the Sefer Halilović family and committed a number of politically motivated killings, and crimes against returnees in Central Bosnia, that the secret Muslim services participated in war and war-related corruption fraud, that Nedžad ugljen went directly to the news offices and claimed that Bakir Izetbegović would liquidate him, that Ramiz Delalić Ćelo in the interview with Bozenović. So that's not where the media lists are listed, that's where they're not listed, in the interview I mean when I say there, media sources. Today, in terms of funds, the event that will follow will be timed, it is tied to Ramazan this year, and this was 18.05.2013, there is talk of telecoms, electricity. In terms of other points, media sources, media inscriptions are being talked about, it is not mentioned in this interview. When this interview is read, then it can be concluded, so this is the minister of security's claim and that's only a problem. If these are security ministers' claims, then Bakir Izetbegović cannot be a member of the BiH presidency, he must answer, as the security minister claims. I think the security minister in this interview went outside the box and that what someone used to say in the media, which is the subject of a lawsuit in court, used as a minister of security and respected the collective head of state, one of the members of the collective head of state. And that's the problem. And that's for conviction. And it can't be done like that. I again again today, listened carefully to the Minister of Security and from what he was saying today and what was written in this interview here, it can be read, I can read it with plus 3.5 and plus 2, I read it without what it's called, without any further increases, it can be concluded that it was something different. That is why the SDA is here, so the authorities will conduct investigations, there are courts, there are prosecutors, let the police, let them all do their jobs, so here we are talking about the relationship between the responsible official, the most responsible man for security in BiH, and who is one of the three most responsible for the situation in BiH. That's the point of what we as a club SDA wanted to say through this. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16713	Thank you. Ambassador Salko Sokolović has his word. Here you go. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16714	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I don't have anything particularly new to add after Mr. Džaferović's presentation, and I just wanted to approach the analysis of these initiatives and what Mr. Security Minister was talking about, when it comes to the very issues raised here through the parliamentary initiative. So these three questions on the first page required concrete answers. They demanded documentary answers from which exactly, it was seen that the member of the presidency, Bakir Izetbegović, was connected with what is said here, the Bosniak state mafia, that he was connected to the secret Muslim services, and that we heard about this speaker and saw it documented that Bakir Izetbegović, a member of the presidency, was that, I would either not report or discuss in a different way, or that my conclusion would be, what Mr Džaferović was just talking about earlier, that Bakir Izetbegović could not be a member of the Presidency, if all of this was mentioned here. These three last questions that, here and could be part of some media allegations, we can look at in a different way, but when we talk about a connection with so-called. Bosniak state mafias, so-called In secret Muslim services, I would like the Minister of Security to step into action immediately and should have already had the heads of this Bosniak state mafia and secret Muslim service, he should have done all of this, for a long time, put the minister in jail and then perhaps in a different way, Minister, he would have talked here today. You, as Minister of Security, can provide the D.A. with relevant evidence to initiate the procedure, which would be best for this country, not for Mr. Radončić, for me, for us here in Parliament, but for the state of BiH. We would solve one problem, find out who was eventually in this period, which was behind us, causing problems in BiH. And be assured that you didn't convince us here, you didn't give us the arguments, and that something to be argued, and it must be properly documented in a way that can be referred to the prosecution as evidence. And I call on fellow Members to support the conclusions proposed by the president of the Party of Democratic Action Club to end this story in one way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16715	Thank you. Dear Minister of Security, Mr. Fahrudin Radončić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16716	The Honorable Chairman. From what I've heard, dear colleagues from the SDA have nothing been denied, nor have they bought gold, no jewelry, no donations, etc. There is an old saying – it does not bark the house, as it is said, the villages do but do themselves. Mr. Sokolović, if you want to know a little bit more about the murder of Nedžad Ugljen, ask the gentleman next to you. Here's why. You know that Camp Pogoritsa was suspended under a large international intervention and that it was a terrorist camp and that there is evidence that Mr. Coalen was killed because he cooperated to defuse the camp. In order not to attack me to say this as a security minister, here's a "print" called, I will read to you half the short-term card: "After 101 more failed interventions and negotiations with then-President Alija Izetbegović to close the camp in Pogorica, IFOR members carried out a slave military action on 16 February 1996 to protect international military forces in BiH. As IFOR's members are known, they have entered a camp in Pogorica and have arrested all the students and Iranian instructors found and seized everything they found on Pogorica. The arrested students and instructors, except Bosanac and three Iranac with diplomatic immunity, are committed to local police authorities. While they were stationed at the House of Police Intelligence at the Iranian Embassy in Sarajevo, a certain ali who came to visit his fellow countrymen, arrested Iranian instructors, on that occasion turned to Nedžad Ugljen in words, under quotes, this, Nedžade, you will pay us with your head. Seven months later, on September 28, 1996, in Prijedorska Street, Nejad Coglen was killed by firearms. Witnesses who were present when ali made the threat to Ugljen were then AIDS members Željko Varunek and Šefik Džaferović. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16717	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16718	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Now we're going beyond the subject, but I'm glad the Minister of Security mentioned it, so this question too. I don't know what he was going to say about this, but I was the secretary of the Agency for Investigation and Documentation from February 1st, '96. until May 1st, '96. For three months, and I was in Sarajevo then, and I was a secretary when all this happened together around the pogorelica. I've never been there, and no one has ever been threatened in my society, so neither have Mr. Nedžad Ugljen, so I've never been there. Mr. Minister has re-produced a media inscription today and let that thing get bright, so I have nothing against it. It's not a topic today, but I had a need to say it here, because the Minister of Security outside the agenda has gone now and is heading towards those who have discussed it here. All right, he's gone to what we can do now, right? I'm just saying Ministers that you're in "The Horizon" so even today what you said, so for me you read from the media, you're the Minister of Security, you have to speak with the power of evidence, you have to have, when you say something you have to have proof of it. The problem is that you do not distinguish the role of the minister of security and the man who has worked throughout his life in the media, journalists, editors and media owners, is therefore the problem. All we're asking you to do inside the SDA is make a difference. This is what you and the media are going to discuss with Mr. Izetbegović in court, but today we are talking here in this House about the relationship between the minister of security and the head of state. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16719	Thank you. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović, discussion. Here you go. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16720	I thank the chairman. Well, you see, I've really listened with attention from the beginning, probably like most of those present in this room, the debate, the controversy that went on the route, or the initiative of Club SDA and Mr Radončić. I was wondering at the moment if Mr Radončić, as he said at the outset that our MPs, as he said, supported the initiative, thought he was speaking as party president, and then when he called for arguments from the newspapers,... founder and president of the newspaper, i.e. the newspaper owner, and then later the minister of security, etc. So, it mixes up a little bit of the role. But here's what's the key reason for me to answer it. So, the agenda point on the SDA Club's initiative is, it says – Statement by the Minister of Security, etc. the references and the arguments. We are reminded here at the beginning of what is involved, which are cited and claimed, and we have heard the statement of the Minister of Security. I beg you, I know it's very difficult, but I think it's time we stopped, we did our job. Why do I urge us to stop? We can talk here whether Mr. Radončić, Mr. Izetbegović, etc., but let's leave a little bit of imagination, let's say this Parliament unanimously concludes that it is a member of the Presidency, etc., according to the allegations that have been made, what this Parliament can do. Can you relieve a member of the Bureau? He can't. Secondly, here in the formulation of the agenda point, I see no SDA initiative to possibly vote non-confidentially on the Secretary of Security, but a statement. And here, we heard a statement. And thirdly, it seems to me, and I am asking you colleagues from the SDA to think, I know that, perhaps you have reacted more and more emotionally than it may be a measure, but I know that my colleague Džaferović would agree that it is not Parliament's place to obviously, and we have heard here, that there is a judicial procedure, and you have said that Mr Izetbegović has filed a judicial request, etc., that this Parliament pleads on the case which is in court. Any of these conclusions may be used, regardless of the outcome of the vote, in the court proceedings. I'm asking you to think about it and I'm asking you to draw your conclusions. Here even, here's if we need to discuss this or some other conclusions let's discuss it after the trial, but don't let Parliament get into it. What if you don't get the conclusion, does that mean strengthening Mr. Radončić's arguments in court? Or what if the conclusion goes through, does that mean strengthening the arguments of the other party in court? Please think about it. I don't think this Parliament should be at this stage and this way dragged into this, the way it seems to me a little too fast and overly emotionalally react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16721	Thank you. I don't see anyone else...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16722	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16723	Are we closing the debate or what? 103
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16724	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16725	At the request of the SDP MPs' club, 15 minutes of breaks. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16726	Okay, so we're going back to work. The SDP Club president, MP Saša Magazinović, requested a break. Here you go, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16727	I thank the chairman. So here, very briefly, it's time to explain the break. We have requested a break at the end of all discussions, and before the debate is concluded, since we know that by the end of the debate it is possible to submit new conclusions or possibly make a proposal to correct the existing ones. That's why we needed a break, and we couldn't consult here. We held a club session and discussed these conclusions. They are impossible to act in the way they are and there are two options ahead of us. One is to propose these conclusions, the SDA MPs' club, respect the suggestions of counterpart Azra Hadžiahmetović and draw conclusions, and another option is to inform us that it does not respect this suggestion and that it remains with the conclusions that we will, of course, agree on. We at the SDP Club believe that the Minister of Security, Mr Fahrudin Radončić, has declared the agenda point as it is formulated. And we also want to highlight the club's position that the BiH Parliament is not an investigative body that needs to determine what it is, which is not, but at the same time we believe, and we want to stress this, that the BiH Parliament is the most legislative body and that everything that is said here has its special weight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16728	...there isn't. I'm finalizing debate on point 13. We're going to the 14th point of the agenda. If Jagodić agrees with the other MPs to unite this 14th and 15th, two initiatives. Ad. 14. Review of Parliamentarian Zijad Jagodić's initiative with the 50th session of the House, held on 18.07.2013, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I would like to point out the parliamentary initiative that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is having a public debate on the subject of "Bosnian Herzegovic Rivers and Lakes in the function of improving the economy", and that the BiH Council of Ministers prepares the initial material for discussion" and 104 Ad. 15. Review of Parliamentarian Zijad Jagodić's initiative with the 50th session of the House, held on 18.07.2013, which reads: In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I submit a parliamentary initiative to the Parliamentary House of BiH to hold a public debate/conference on the subject: "Diaspor House and Diaspora for Homeland", for which the BiH Council of Ministers would prepare initial material for discussion" Here's a colleague of Jagodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16730	Well, I practically put an explanation in the initiative itself. I can talk a lot about them, but I believe that at this point in the state of our Bosnian herbic rivers and lakes are found to be worth having a public debate on them and making conclusions and helping the authorities to practically those things that are negative, which is, above all, the destruction of natural resources very important to our economy, that practically through this initiative I believe that many things could be solved. Also, as regards the other initiative, practically "The House for Diaspora and Diaspora for Homeland", I believe it is very important, although the initiative was proposed, or submitted on 18th of July, but expecting that this initiative will, in any case, be supported by this Parliament, I believe that it can certainly be of greater interest, above all for us in BiH and certainly for the diaspora. I believe the diaspora expects certain reactions from the queen, however, we cannot say that the state is doing nothing for the diaspora, but in every instance, at this point in BiH's diaspora around the world, there are problems that would be good to pay attention to. Because... 1.500,000 people in our diaspora world live, out of which 7% to 9% are highly educated. I believe that this percentage of the diaspora highly educated, entrepreneurship-oriented can contribute more significantly to BiH with its capital, and we must properly assess and channel this in the right way. I believe that at this point in time when the global crisis is present at every turn our economy does not give signs that it can do itself, that it can do practically what is necessary, but also with our diaspora, I believe that we can improve a lot. I believe that this initiative, both of them, is in that direction and I expect this House to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16731	I thank my colleague, Jagodić, who explained both initiatives. Given that there are no reports for the debate, I find that we have closed the debate on the 14th and 15th points of the agenda. Moving to the 16th point of the agenda, 105 Ad. 16. Consideration of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security with a proposal for conclusions on the blockade of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions from 05-07.06.2013. As you know, we're in charge of the Commission, the Commission has delivered a total of seven conclusions. The word has the first letter of Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16733	Chairman, I ask you to consider the possibility to remove this item from the agenda, as point 6 of the conclusion says that the Joint Commission proposes that the House of Representatives and the House of People invite the Prosecutor General of the Prosecutors of BiH to discuss the conclusions concerning the events and actions during the citizens' protest in front of the institution building from 05th to 07th June 2013. Given that there are a number of outstanding questions left and that there is something left that we could not define as a conclusion at the Joint Defence and Security Committee session because we had no one left to ask these questions, I suggest we invite the chief prosecutor to the House of Representatives session and solve those dilemmas that remain.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16734	Thank you. A concrete proposal. So, before the debate continues, it would make sense then to make a statement eventually and to vote on this proposal. So you don't need to repeat the proposal. Here's the suggestion: Is anyone reporting on this proposal to extend this debate at the next session? In this regard, the word is "Šefik Džaferović". Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16735	Mr. Chairman. I think we put this as a part of the agenda, that we have the material and that we have all the conditions to discuss this, and I think we should stop with more, and that's usually very present these days and it's going from the Defence Commission, right, to the BiH Prosecutor General's Office, according to BiH's Attorney General. We can argue here without him. We decide we need it, we can make a decision, but I don't think we should postpone this today and we should try to finish this. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16736	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16737	Okay. Before the vote, I must give my word. A friend of Jovičić's is a replica or is a replica. Here you go. 106
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16738	Mr. Džaferović, I think you're very well-advised and you've read the attorney general's statement. He took this as pressure on him and he said he'd never respond here. What I have now to discuss about him when he will never come. What do I have to ask the College to call him when he's not coming? And she's right, Mrs. Majkić, let's take this off, and whenever she does, whatever we can just do, when we tell them the budget, yeah, now we're going to fine you, because of you, someone's prosecutor... composition, the High Prosecutor's Council, a million marks less. It's the only way we can. The man won't come, you can't bring him in, you can't bring him in. And I don't want to talk about him anymore so he doesn't bring me in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16739	Thank you. Nermina, did you give up or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16740	If there's a motion to get this off the agenda, then I don't have a proposal. If it remains to be discussed, then I have a proposal to vote individually on each of the conclusions set out in this Commission's opinion on defence and security.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16741	Thank you. Replica, MP Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16742	Thank you, Chairman. So, I don't think there's really any point in discussing this without a prosecutor. I wouldn't insist on the fact that this is a very important question. This is about the authority of this House. The question is, are we at that stage and can we endure as much rock as we're being thrown at? I'm not saying that we can force a public prosecutor, the chief public prosecutor to come here and put pressure on some people, so it has to be done, but the attorney general has to be correct. The state authorities must cooperate. He is an important state body, and if he is invited by Parliament, so Parliament will not judge him here, but rather hear some things that would be useful for Parliament and for him, then he should come, that at least in terms of the service he performs, or if you want in the extreme line of courtesy, to appear in this Parliament. Discuss without him, it doesn't make sense. And I mean, I would remind a lot of people that this is a very important issue, a very important issue. That we were hostages until one day deep into the night, until the morning, etc., and that some things still need to be clarified. Is there a responsibility of the state authorities to the affairs they're doing, and why did that happen? Why isn't anyone pulling the strings? I think he's got to pull the strings, regardless of the preparation of public media that says anything. There seems to be a lot of things allowed to say about MPs. 107 I have invested so much in all my height and integrity all my life, that it is now spit on us, and of course also on me, not just because of this event, but because of the pay, because of this, they are doing nothing, etc. I haven't learned not to do anything, Bog never, I've been up all my life with some imperative that I have to do something. What are we pretending to be, what is this society turning into? So, in a society of no value, anyone will be able to throw a stone at anyone. Well, it's not possible, so whether I, who's been practicing law my whole life, can say I'm interfering with that act in the work of a public prosecutor. No, I don't. But please, every MP that appears in this House, he must be free. Let the protesters do whatever they want on the street, don't touch my physical or psychic integrity. I have to be protected. I can do whatever he wants, I don't mind, talk, carry the banners, but please, we have to be allowed freedom of movement. No one in this world can limit us. Therefore, I would not like to remind you of these unpleasant moments, but certainly, for the sake of correctness, for the sake of the co-operation of the state authorities, the public prosecutor should appear here and give us some arguments. Without him, I think it's declassified to argue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16743	Thank you. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16744	Here, I will return to what my colleague Majkić suggested and this comment by Mr Džaferović, a colleague of Džaferović, had. So we can't get off the agenda, she's on the agenda, but we can postpone the plea. But that means there's nothing new, just the next session and we vote. It doesn't matter the prosecutor was here, not there. So, there's no need for this debate. We're just talking about whether to postpone the plea. I don't see any need to delay a plea for the simple reason it's all clear. Especially when it comes to Nermina Zaimović's proposal, we are very interested in Parliament's statement, because not all conclusions are acceptable to us and some are. That's how we voted, that's how I voted. And to vote separately, to declare Parliament on the proposal, because as far as I understand it, Nermin has already suggested it. And postponing a statement on this agenda point, in my opinion, there's no need at all. So let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16745	Thank you. Replica, Dušanka Majkić's letter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16746	I don't know how, if it's a replica. I would ask you to have enough sensitivity for those of us who felt the way we felt that night. I asked you last time, Mr. Belkić, that we weren't in the same position. At least I expected you to say in a friendly way, here's what I'm going to support, because I wasn't looking for anything new, but I was looking for meaning, just to hear what that man's going to say. We have a right to hear it. And in which country does the prosecutor not want, will he or don't know what, to appear at Parliament's session? So if nothing, let that session contribute to our future 108 co-operation. In which country does the prosecutor and parliament have no relation? We have to start building these relationships. Let Dušanka Majkić say every time she presses to make such a decision. That's what it is, it's an attack on an independent judiciary. But if we ask him to submit some explanation for that night, I expect you colleagues first to stand behind it and I expect him as chief prosecutor that because of the integrity of the Court and because of Parliament's integrity, he will do so. And please don't, we're not asking too much of you. And I really don't think there's a need for this much controversy, especially those that apriors refuse to discuss at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16747	Thank you. Replica, MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16748	Well, I completely understand and I'm glad you're talking about co-operation with the D.A., etc. And that's the approach. I just pointed out the business situation, nothing else. So, we can postpone the plea and I don't mind, here's a delay in the plea, but that delay in the plea doesn't open up room for a business debate. If the College says there will be a debate, then I understand why you're looking. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16749	Thank you. Mato Franjičević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16750	I realized that we didn't even open the debate on the report, but we opened a debate on the proposal to postpone the debate on the report. And in that case, I think that makes sense. In the second, if that's not the case, then you, Mr. Belkić, are right. But to me, here's the thing, there's no doubt that some things were done at the time, which, if anything else, require an explanation from the prosecution as an institution. In which form this explanation will come, it may not be too insistent to be a form of direct contact with the attorney general, but we must be told, be careful, limit the right to freedom of movement, not a harmless thing, and someone has to say whether it's like this or not. And then we can discuss it. And without it, I really don't think it makes any sense to argue, because there's one important part that can make this debate too much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16751	Thank you. Ambassador, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16752	Look, if there's a discussion, it's an application. It's me, this is now a business debate, isn't it? This is a fundamental discussion. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16753	Okay. Do you now agree that we would like to make a statement on the proposal from Parliament of Dušanka Majkić to postpone the debate on this agenda point, of course, and a statement for the next House session? A colleague named Đugum appears before the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16754	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16755	No breakback microphone turned on Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get on with our work. Right now we're within the 16th point of the agenda. I now invite you to come forward with a proposal from Parliament of Dušanka Majkić, which is to postpone for the next session of the debate and a statement on this agenda. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16758	Nothing, we can go straight to the vote, we're just consulting on the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16759	Okay. Please prepare for the vote, so on postponing this agenda session. Who's up for this proposal? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] This second and third is understood. 110 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16763	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Only on behalf of the Commission for Gender Equality small additional clarifications. Following the application of the Law on Gender Equality in BiH, which in Article 32(2) prescribed the obligation to comply with all laws and regulations with that Act, the Commission for Gender Equality of the House of Representatives initiated the harmonisation of the Media Law with the Law on Gender Equality. It was also done with laws on the RTS system, the TV service and the Communication Act. At its meeting in 16052013, the Commission considered the information on the preparation course for the holding of an information session on the effects of the application of those three laws. It has been established that, in accordance with Article 162(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH and the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency are requested to submit reports within two months on the application of these laws, which should contain numerical, or statistical data, as well as a comparison with the situation before the entry into force of this Act. The requested reports were not submitted within the time limit, and they were again requested to submit their reports to the Commission from the above institutions on April 04th of this year. That's not happening until today, and that's why this proposed conclusion is. Thank you to your colleagues and colleagues for supporting him.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16764	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. 111 We move to the 18th point of the agenda, Ad. 18. Consideration of the Joint Commission's Opinion on European Integration And this point is included in the College's decision at the request of the Joint Commission. It is proposed to adopt a total of four conclusions that you have received. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We are crossing, that is, before we now move to the 19th item of the agenda, I suggest that the House be made aware that the debate on points 19 to 23 of the agenda is united as it is a matter of giving consent to ratification of agreements and contracts. Before we enter the word, MP Mirza Kušljugić, although we thought, I do not know if this is your reason, that in the vote he stated that one agreement, item 22, received a negative opinion, so that we will make a special statement about him, and about this, is that, I guess I guessed the reason for your...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16766	In principle, I only draw attention to the fact that, under one of the agreements, the Commission gave a negative opinion, i.e. it did not give a positive opinion, and we would be very happy to give an explanation when it comes to this.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16767	Thank you. A fellow Bosiću, same subject. Okay. Please prepare for the vote, who is it to unite the debate on these points? Vote now. 37 for, against 1 and 1 abstention. We adopted this proposal. Ad. 19. - 23. Granting consent for ratification of agreements and contracts I'm opening a debate. A fellow Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16769	I thank the chairman. 112 I am reporting for debate point 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement on credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe Development Bank. Today on the Commission we had representatives from the Ministry of Finance who explained that this loan is related to the opening of 170 ambulances in the Federation and in the RS. Since the Commission has been discussing this particular health sector for more than a year, it has always been difficult to give or not give a positive opinion on certain loans, the amount of credit granted, which is mostly related to local communities or cantons, which do not have an absolute foothold in part of the health development strategy at BiH level. It is reasonable that entities are the owners of the health system and they are responsible for the health system in their entities, but also in one of the issues that I have previously delivered to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the response came in the fourth month, and they have all been given to all MPs, it is clear where the Ministry of Civil Affairs has given, or the competent sector for health at the Ministry of Civil Affairs is this part of the health development strategy or health reform that they are doing together, i.e. this strategy of the Ministry of Entity and Ministry of the Brcko District. In this very response that came from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, it was clearly stated that due to the lack of cooperation of entity health ministries or the Ministry of Brcko Department of Health Development strategy was not done in the period when it was planned together with the World Health Organisation Office in 2008-2009 for the period from 2010 to 2015. Today, simple cantons, municipalities or entities go into the development of a health system without absolutely any strategy, we borrow and take expensive loans and absolutely raises the question of whether these capacities are justified, regardless of where they were being built. And simply because the entity ministries didn't cooperate with the Ministry of Civil Affairs did a health strategy, we were denied access to grant loans and IPA funds. So we simply employ BiH citizens to build capacity and open any hospital or medical facilities and we will not use, or because of the inactivity of the ministries, we are not allowed to access the grant or use the IPA funds. I think that after four or five questions to the Ministry, in these three, four years, it's time to once stand in this part, to simply assign the Ministry to any principle, but to make a health strategy this year by 2015, and to see then the capacities that need to be done to be justified, to have their place, not to lend them to the local community, because all those loans they took, from the Korean Fund and beyond, when they come to the charge, believe that no one will be able to repay them. And the big question is how justified it is to open it, because the normal thing to do at local level is to make a decision on opening capacity without absolutely creating a program whether it is necessary for the number of inhabitants, for the number of patients and in which sector. And I think that these duties within the health care sector that is now in a catastrophic situation, both in the RS, and in the Federation, and in the Brcko District, large debts, absolutes, cannot be paid regularly for all tranches that go towards workers, according to health care, according to funds and debt to all suppliers. I think there's a time here to stop with this granting of consent continuously. Only the Ministry of Finance participates in this, and the Ministry of Civil Affairs is absolutely not consulted to give its opinion on capacity building. For these reasons, I think we should make every effort to reach a conclusion here that, in some future period, within a reasonable period, 60, 90 days, the Ministry of Civil Affairs will adopt a health development strategy by 2015 to enable the use of grant loans and IPA funds. 113
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16770	Thank you. The word has an MP, Mirza Kušljugić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16771	The Commission's conclusion is that the BiH Parliament, which is in the process of approving such arrangements, warns that for more than a year, the Commission has concluded that the requirements for credit agreement are coming to Parliament, especially from the domain of health, which are very favourable loans at first sight, when you look at them financially, but on the basis of the information we receive from the field, it is doubtful whether this is intended use, i.e. this is an equident example that we are basically told that the purpose of the loan dictated by the donor, i.e. in this case the creditor Development Bank of the Council of Europe. We have already had more than a year of discussion, even used by some members of the Commission to determine whether the Commission is a flow boiler throughout this process. We know who's in charge, we know who's in charge of returning certain loans, but still so, but still the overall responsibility and purpose of BiH's mandate should be taken into account by this Parliament. Today, when we discussed how to include the Ministry of Civil Affairs, how to draw Parliament's attention to all the problems we have been discussing for more than a year, the conclusion was that perhaps this is the way, to give a negative opinion, which does not indicate that Parliament will also accept the Commission's position. But to cut this short, we want to be the only ones who will always give positive opinions, even when we have a discussion, or to paraphrasise, if you want this Parliament to be a flow water heater, which means everything that comes to the commission that we give a positive opinion, because there are competencies elsewhere, and then Parliament votes, too, we want to draw attention to the fact that among the loans offered there are interventions that can be solved by donor means, and we cannot withdraw that donor funding because we do not have the right strategies that are not being done for their realisation. So, it's not this, it's a good time to do it because this is about a loan of nine comas to a few million. There is no hospital, there is talk of hospitals throughout BiH, so it was a good time to warn you that we have big dilemmas on the Commission when we raise our hands and participate in the process. That is why it is decided that I should explain to Parliament our failure to give a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16772	Thank you. The word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16773	I am, indeed, now surprised and fragrant. If the Commission finds that in the health care sector that excludes entity jurisdiction, what kind of healthcare are you talking about, Mr. Đugu, at BiH level? These are the commitments taken by entities according to the family medical schedule, the 114-family medicine clinics. RS knows exactly which segment is next and where the next segment is built. So watch out, what you've stopped, the reconstruction of primary health care including the reconstruction and reconstruction of the infirmary, improving health sector management and formulating health sector policy and supporting the project. Well, I can't believe we decided to stop it and stop it. It was a bunch of other projects that we could stop for, but what's in those collapsed hospitals, we're gonna stop it because we think we're gonna put health care at BiH level, so we're gonna be able to transfer funds to who they need to. I'm asking the Commission, I'm really asking her not to make a mistake like this and let's do what we said. I guess this job is already started because it's the end of 2014. So it's already started. Don't make a mistake and Parliament's task, and it is, we should be rebelling so far, we can't change a single point on these agreements. That's the way it is. That's the role we've been given. But challenge the appropriations, so I don't really know who it might come to and spread the strictness of health care. I think it's, at the very least, that we need to stop by the plea, that this kind of thing couldn't possibly go too fast. Because in the end, your Commission is always sitting before the House's meeting, and we don't have time to notify ourselves on time. And now for the first time I've heard what's going on. I'd have known better about this thing if I'd known it could be a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16774	Thank you. Ambassador Mladen Bosić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16775	So this is about a loan given by the Council, a Bank of the Council of Europe that dictates where these funds will be spent. Notice, it's a loan someone's gonna have to pay back. And those funds need to be spent on, I don't know, 150 ambulances per village, suburbs, etc. And the technology of taking these funds from BiH and both entities is where we can get someone to give us credit. They're not in the health care department. They're not in the hospital's priority room. Someone tell me now that the priority of health care in both entities is to open the infirmarys by village. It's done in pre-election time. It was popular to get a voice. And we're taking a loan that needs someone to repay, and our health care in the RS is safe, and surely the Federation is on its knees. Every home of health is in the dubiosis, and every day it comes out to see what's going on. Health funds can't work anymore. And there's no question here about whether entities have the jurisdiction of health care. That's right. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, absolutely. We cleared it up over there. Here's the question of how these loans are taken. This loan would not have been and would not have been made by the infirmary if someone hadn't tipped off – well, you can take a loan there in Strasbourg, as if it were a donation, as if it were a grant that no one has to repay. And that's how mass loans are taken. At least 50% of all loans were taken that way. We're against taking further credit for consumption. Health cannot be classified as a classic consumption, I 115 agree here, but I am convinced that no document can survive the fact that the opening of a new medical priority of this health care is now looming in debt. This debate over this loan happens to be like this because it's over, because the question is, where is it going, who's going to pay back these loans? Which means next year, when this big tranche comes, when everyone's getting their heads together, unless they're planning on taking new credits to get these last ones back. And do we do that for our generations, leave our children in the amanet? Well, we don't have a doctor, our doctors are leaving, our existing homes of health are collapsing. It's creepy when you get in what it looks like, the malter falls off the wall. But this debate is not about the state of health of BiH, this debate is about how to take credit and what will happen in 2.5 or 10 years, about the irresponsibility and inability of the current authorities. And a negative opinion has been given to initiate the opening of this problem, to start talking about the problem here in the BiH Parliament. Not to take someone's jurisdiction to determine in the RS what the health priority is, but to distract them. Because they're asking us to raise our hands for this borrowing. Therefore, this is an appeal to open an actual debate, to pass a law, if necessary, on borrowing, to prohibit borrowing for the purposes of this curse. And I, uh, thought I'd make a proposal to open up a new agenda point, but I guess the Council of Ministers will have an understanding of this and we'll start talking about it correctly once. The next point of point 23 is the opposite of this problem. That's where you take a loan for a remont hydrothermia that pays for itself and earns, I don't know how much money you pay there. And for such things there's no problem, there's no discussion of whether to take it. To create new jobs, there is no discussion whether to take credit. But for the administration, for the purchase of software by local communities, and I don't know what further nonsense, I think it's about time we made a deal, to make some criteria. If not for us, it's for our children.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16777	Thank you. Replica, deputy chairman Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16778	Thank you. Two segments of this debate, one concerning the very procedure for the adoption of the agreement and ratification of those agreements. As far as I'm aware, and I'd like to be corrected by my colleagues, although we are the last ones who give consent to ratification, agreements are already being implemented and spent without us. What can we do here, and I would like the representatives of the Foreign Affairs Commission, what can we do here to stop the implementation of the agreement and how can Parliament be involved in making an agreement and giving its agreement on this? When I was at the Foreign Affairs Committee, we discussed it, asked that Parliament be involved through committees when the agreements are being made, so that we know what we will discuss at all. And we failed to amend the law in which Parliament would be an active factor in the process itself, not just a mere, to say in the end, the one that will realize that something has been taken. 116 A whole other part of the issue is the issue of the obviously opening of an election campaign before it even started. And these discussions that we can discuss with the SDS about the Platform that we have about working together here, and the issues we obviously didn't agree on. The SNSD, given that a member of the Bureau has given consent, since the finance minister from the Bureau has been given the consent to sign this, that our health minister, in the way the RS government does, is using it, and someone will check and we will talk about how the funds are being spent. Both I as a doctor and one who supports the RS population getting the best possible medical assistance will support this Agreement, and I do not believe that the Commission can in this way declare itself without ratification of this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16779	Thank you. Replica, Mirsd Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16780	Thank you. First of all, I would say only to Mrs. Majkić, she probably didn't follow my first part of the exposure and that I said - health care is on entities and that's entity jurisdiction. ... absolutely no one interferes with that part and doesn't want to interfere. The other thing, whether this is gonna stop or not absolutely doesn't matter, but it's important that we all know what this is about. And the thing is, we're not going to make a health system reform strategy since 2010, and we haven't pulled a single grant fund that can be built by both hospitals and hospitals. Another thing, surely in the last 4 or 5 sessions, about health care, we have led on the Commission a number of discussions where we know and where it is safe to buy apparatus 2 to 3 times more expensive than it is. The Ministry of Finance never gave us an explanation other than an explanation, this is a quality loan and a cheap loan. Do you have a specification of what is being obtained? We have no idea. Do you have the consent of the Ministry of Civil Affairs? We don't, it's not in their jurisdiction. So full implementation, if we are ready to watch with our eyes closed in one Posje, when there was a Korean redite get a CT and they don't have an absolute radiologist and that the parath stands in the basement for 3-4 years and is not used, and that's what citizens pay for, to buy the PET/CT machine in BiH alone at the Sarajevo Clinic, which has been standing in the basement for two years and does not use for BiH citizens. If we know that the mass of these funds is used in a non-transparent way, because they have privileged firms that participate in tenders, then we can clearly say that we will let it go and let it go. This is a small part of the funds, and it absolutely doesn't matter whether the 170 ambulances stop or not, it's just that it served for political or any other purpose. No Niko wants to damage a citizen, but no one wants to simply pay that citizen twice as much. These funds could have been easily drawn from a grant of funds and made up of these infirmarys. But I'm talking about one continuity. When the hospital was in Nevessinj a year ago, I said, "I will absolutely not participate in this, so I don't think I'm holding the process against the RS, but that's why I've been holding the process in other projects in the Federation." A simple man wants to prove something that really is, and these data are clearly presented to the 117 Commission. There's information about the purchase of equipment, what it is and what it is, and everyone from the ministry is running, because only the finance ministry says it's a quality loan. Quality credit, I don't know either, grace period is a year, interest is 2%, but no one's talking about what's three times as expensive. There's the problem. If we want to close our eyes, be part of the part where it's being carried out, then what they're saying, I think it's our duty to warn each other from what bar we know to be of quality that it's pure crime, that we know, because nobody's going to take it back. And another thing, why not draw up a health reform strategy that we had to, which the World Health Organization paid for in 2008, made a team in 2008-2009 and today we are in 2013 and we have no strategies since 2010. This is just an attempt to get a little deep in this health problem, and we know that there is dubiosis in all health institutions and that this system is really on its knees and that it can't work. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16781	Thank you. Replica, Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16782	I've got a wrong quote first. As a member of the Commission, I need to mention only that it is not an accurate finding that the Commission is meeting regularly before Parliament's meetings. I just have to mention that it may have happened two or three times now in this term. Although, of course, as an opposition, I could criticise or give arguments of that kind, but that's not true. Secondly, I must express my regret that we have time and situation and, here is a concrete reason for having given us the right when we have put forward our arguments in due time, which is why we will be abstained from any additional borrowing through the loan, before this Parliament, within its jurisdiction, and we have them, do not discuss the key things which, among other things, concern the borrowing and the possibility of repaying the loan. What is true by the menu of my colleague Živković is that we have initiated earlier, and I know how these initiatives ended, as well as Mr Živković, but the fact that the project is being implemented, that the Presidency prepared a decision, gave consent, that the Council of Ministers gave etc. doesn't change anything about things. Because throughout the process, this Parliament has a role to play. And this Parliament will show its role today. The fact that we have not given or perhaps Parliament will not give consent to ratification does not mean that, unless circumstances change, at the next session of Parliament, we give consent to ratification. And it might be good that, here this occasion, this Parlamnet finally gets information and from the Department of International Legal Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs what this procedure means, and in what way Parliament, which has its role, has its hands in the whole process, can be included that this situation is no longer taking place. Thank you. 118
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16783	Thank you. Replica, MP Mirza Kušljugić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16784	Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović has already said, meetings are always held a day or two before, this is an exception. If you think you need to further inform yourself by... it is possible that a statement at this point should be postponed. But my replica refers to what the esteemed representative Živković said, that he does not understand whether the Commission can give a negative opinion at all. If we can't give a negative opinion, you'll always get from the Commission what the mood is, because we don't see the purpose of the whole procedure, why are we raising our voice for it. And this is one appeal that the same goes for this House. If it's a formal matter in procedure, then let's know it's a formal thing, then there's no problem. If that's the way it's supposed to be, then formally, we just accept that role. But don't make a call later. And what's it for, Mrs. Majkić, what's the health care for? Well, most of the loans in the last two years have been in the health sector, and it's already known, here's information from the Federation that lower levels of government can't repay those loans, I can't. Let me not tell you that we've raised our hands and we knew that these are the amounts of credit that the entities won't be able to repay, because that's jurisdiction and someone's doing it, right there, and the calculations. The budgets and the movement of the GDP are such that we won't be able to repay those loans. So two points we've had, you can postpone the plea for the next session, if you think you need further information. Finally, Parliament can also vote for, if the Commission has given the opinion it has given. Three votes against, four votes abstention, this is a signal that we want to inform you about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16785	Thank you. Replica, deputy chairman, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16786	Dear colleague, could you possibly find in the archives whether there has ever been a negative opinion in Parliament so far on the approval of ratification by the Foreign Affairs Commission? Mr. Bosić, I want to tell you - why didn't you discuss the subject on the Commission and propose to this Parliament that we discuss BiH's responsibility? To discuss that the Foreign Affairs Commission and this Parliament have no role to play in borrowing, nor any ratification, suggested conclusions and other conclusions, and not in this way opened a very important topic? Why didn't you do it on the Commission? Or are you waiting to make these strategies with someone else next year on BiH health? Just so you know, SNSD will not participate in such passions. Thank you. 119
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16787	Thank you. Is this a mistake, colleague Jagodić, or is it a replica? Replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16788	No, it's not. I'm waiting to get a chance. I've actually answered for the discussion before, but in a desire to speed up, I've seen that things have gone their own way, which I've been thinking about specifically. For two years, we practically discuss and give each session of Parliament, raise our hands and vote for or against, most of it for, of this ratification agreement, but I want to know what I am voting on, whether I am home or here in Parliament at the club. I've often asked my colleagues a little bit about these contracts. I, as a man, want to know, today-to-morrow, may not be in Parliament next year, but because of the contracts that have been signed, for which the funds have been paid, for which someone in my region will need to repay those loans today-to-morrow, since at this point I am specifically highlighting an example of where the funds are similar, in an identical manner already funded in a system of sewers and wastewater purifiers that does not work, and now it will come to someone's charge. I would really like to ask, however, for the next session I will certainly prepare one initiative, that each of these consents are specifically discussed, that we at least get the information back in a year what the effects of these consents are, these duties. I think every host, every responsible man should make sure he's worth it, no matter what area we invest in. Look, we're in charge of building highways, etc. We are the most expensive country in Europe to build roads. Our labour force is the cheapest, 70 percent stones, the basic material in building a mile of highway, but we are the most expensive. We're more expensive than the Švicarac, than the Njemac, than the Holanđan, I don't know who to list. I think it's smart, and this situation specifically prompted me to replicate because the chairman of Živković said it twice, I couldn't believe that with words like that, and that's why I wanted to, and this reminds me exactly like the party that goes to the bank to get a loan, so he says, child, please, will you be a jury, just sign here. That's how I feel right now. And I, for sure, if you go back, you'll see that I've been restrained. I'm not up for this, and in the future, I'm sure I'll take the debate to further debate, get information on individual projects, because it's still more valuable. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16789	Thank you. Okay, for information, we will also have a point at the next House session – Information on the state of public debt in BiH, so it may be an opportunity to talk about some topics. Replica, Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16790	Well, that's what I was about to say. In these benches we've debated many times about public duty both in that assembly and in this assembly and there's been a lot of conclusions that have to be made... responsibilities. In... there will be sectors, level of debt, total level etc. And we need to be aware of what 120 states we live in. I wish it were different but it's not. And we need to know that there are procedures and what our role is. I don't think here at this point we're in a situation in procedures to value the quality of the project. That's what sectors and those in charge do. And that's basically how it's supposed to be. We've always done that. In that context, I can say that when it comes to the health sector, it's the widest thing in the world, and it was what they would say to me. The very fact that in one canton, in one city, we have a clinical hospital and a cantonal hospital, or in one canton of two cantonal hospitals and a clinical center. And we had to go through these kind of arrangements, and we had to make guesses, and we had to be in charge. Of course you shouldn't be doing that. That's our reality, unfortunately. I participated in it, it couldn't have been different. But on the other hand, I don't think it would be a bobra, when these credits show up, if we were to label them this easily -- it's a good one, it's not good. If the Council of Europe lends credit, and they say favourably, it should enter the structure. We've had in the process of tasking any approval of duties and for the start of negotiations. It cares about the way and the modality of what it wants to achieve with the project. So sometimes it's an education, sometimes it's a good means, sometimes it's got grenades, sometimes it's got equipment. And I agree with this fact that we often have the equipment of certain lobbies going in. These are our realities. But I'm also aware that, as my colleague said, I don't know her anywhere in Possuje ended up with a highly valuable machine, and there's no radiologist or anyone else. It's somebody's problem again or our stuff that we have to set up. And health care must come on the agenda, to see its rationalization. You all in there know that we are very expensive and inefficient and that when you look at European countries, you will see that there are far less hospitals per capita than we are, and this time there are small funds and the Commission has just found here to start this issue. If any solution is compromised to postpone this next session, maybe this particular loan, if it's going to be... a task, but I think it needs to be settled in principle. So a way of borrowing and passion is how we're going to do it. And that I here, I don't want to make a decision, is whether, I don't know in one of the municipalities I need or shouldn't, I don't need a tree home or that machine that stands, I don't feel competent, I don't have enough information, and I believe if it's a loan from the Council of Europe that's a favourable loan and I need to use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16791	Thank you. Replica, Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16792	So, Mr. Živković, on the grounds that we have nothing to discuss about what is coming to us and that, by automatedism, we should vote for it, I must remind you that this Parliament, like all parliaments, does not only have a legislative function, but also has a control function of the executive authority. If that wasn't the case, we wouldn't be discussing it right now. I need to raise my hand. If it means I vote for everything that comes to me and you interpret the Rules of Procedure, then we don't even have to sit here. Then I can glue gum on this "yes" button so I don't waste my time here. 121 So, please, if I'm aware and I'm convinced that someone is raising a loan that needs to repay my child in 5 or 10 years completely unnecessary because there are far more priorities than that, if I'm aware that one of these couples will take at least 20 or 30% in the corruption process that exists here, I won't vote for it. And what this loan is now on the agenda, it's an accident. What we voted against, we voted to draw attention to what was going on. And we won't vote. So we in the SDS won't support this loan, regardless of what the RS Health Ministry probably did in the deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16793	Let's vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16794	Don't interrupt me. I don't know, I mean...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16795	You go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16796	Well, I won't, I'll hang up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16797	I'm a friend of Bosiću.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16798	I won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16799	Okay. I would still ask the MPs, no matter how long this session takes, that we still have the patience to finish this session. Let's move on, replica Mirza Kušljugić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16800	The second replica and I won't do it anymore. I think, I think it's a good way out, I think it's a good way out to postpone this point vote. And he did, Mr. Živković, in this meeting, the Commission did give negative opinions and therefore, among other things, the State Hospital in Sarajevo two sessions ago withdrew its request until it was completed. So, I think it is enough that the next time Parliament's members have information and statements, that it is not that the Commission surprised Parliament by delivering this during the day. And that's why I think the proposal to postpone the plea for the next time was also a proposal, why I said not to vote in the package as we have always voted.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16801	No microphone 122 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16802	Well, thank you, Chairman. Since I, as a member, or second vice president of the Foreign Affairs Commission, need something, I need something to say. This means for the first time that in this way this point, when it comes to the ratification of international agreements, including these credit agreements, means, with the Council of Europe Bank which offers in some way favourable funds, credit funds, but we on the Commission often, as colleagues have already discussed, mean here, we are wondering whether, or whether we are raising our hands, this Parliament, adopting, ratifying, is agreeing to ratifications of the agreement and we have no feedback. Well, what I'm not saying is, this, today's debate this morning with the Commission, it kind of spilled a glass, I was against it, I'm probably going to be like that now, so on this Parliament, or to delay the statement on this. But we have been given the task of the cantonal, entity health ministry, means health care at the level of entities and cantons, means..., is it, the jurisdiction of the federal ministry and these county or cantonal of these ministries, and means it has been paid by the world health organization, so it has been paid, the funds are secured for construction, is that so, for the development of health care project in BiH. And it wasn't done, and if it was done and we had it, this is what we're looking for now, if we had it, means, in some way, a project that's what's been said from 2010 to 2015, then it wouldn't be a problem, or at that time we wouldn't be looking for credit funds but we'd be able to apply there to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, means for funds, grant funds or IPA funds. So, we could provide free funds also for development and not to enter now whether it is necessary to develop primary medicine or family medicine to restore it in villages or not, but in any case here and this Parliament has a role, regardless of what some say there is, when it comes to these agreements, and we can ultimately challenge that in some ways, whether or not we are serious about these things, that we know why we are in charge and who will eventually return it. Because otherwise, a very, very difficult state of health because I know it too, because I come from the health sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16803	Thank you. Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16804	I..., Mr. Chairman, the position of the Foreign Affairs Commission, but I disagree with it, I must also expect you to apply the Rules of Procedure immediately, if applied in terms of negative opinion, I will vote against the Commission's negative opinion, so if this issue is reconsidered. Or if there is another way, I think we should respect it, and in this case the Rules of Procedure. I'll just say a few details, and I apologize, I know you're in a loss of patience for all of this. BiH is a country in the Western Balkans that singles out the smallest, smallest assets per capita for health care. BiH is one of the few countries where capital investment funds are not allocated from the budget, therefore. Republika Srpska has only 230 euros per capita for health care. Is there any abuse in terms of 123 possible corruption? I must tell you right now, anyone who deals with this matter needs to report to the competent institutions, start criminal proceedings. But we don't have the capacity to build a key segment in which, regardless of the lack of a strategy to develop health care and unnecessaryness, we are fully all agreed to develop primary health care through medical family medicine. BiH needs 2,000 ambulatory family medicine and their average standard is now below 30 years ago. If our goal is to do so, I think we should use credit funds and it's impossible. The Republic of Croatia has a 21 billion kuna budget for health care. If you compare that, therefore, is about 700, between seven hundred and eight hundred, about 800 euros per capita and has made revolutionary shifts from primary, secondary to tertiary levels of health care. So this is about 160 medical care, we don't have enough numbers, so neither spatial possibilities, nor human resources, nor standards that would satisfy the European level. Is there... on some level? I don't rule out that possibility, but this has nothing to do with this contract. I really appreciate what my colleagues say about IPA projects. I'll tell you one piece of information that'll get you through, and that'll end it, which will surprise you. Republika Srpska annually, the Health Fund, pays 4 million health institutions in the Federation for the treatment of its patients, the Federal Health Fund, health funds, so including cantonal and federal RS payments of only 200,000 annually. I've been thinking for a long time, and unfortunately there are eight or nine health workers here, starting with the fact that two university professors are not the most competent, but I think I know this problem competently, I'll tell you one thing. So, in this situation where we are currently in place, we need to talk, health institutions Shabac, Valjevo, Tuzla, Zvornik, Loznica, to agree on a project that would..., Mostar, Trebinje, Dubrovnik, Split, we should talk about, I don't know Foča and similar institutions, Sarajevo etc. What am I saying that for? I'll tell you, so I don't have any reservations that we need to meet and get funds from the IPA grant funds, but my dear gentlemen, I'm going to tell you one of the data that we're constantly lying about, can you trust me now that there's been an accident in Bihac, you know how many patients were sent from Bihac Hospital in Banja Luka. Zero, zero, you won't believe me, zero patients. I wonder what? What kind of relationship is it that a patient goes 400km to Sarajevo or Tuzlo without coming to Banja Luka? And we're talking about the BiH Health Strategy. Whatever the Clinical Center is in Banja Luka, he doesn't have a theoretical chance of being any worse than the bihaćki hospital, no theoretical chance. As Zvornik can't be better than Tuzla's clinical center. What did we come up with? We're advocating ourselves in principle under this, if we want to build trust, discuss capacities or any sense, any level, we have to say -- that we stand up for it. The RS Health Minister at the moment of the fire offered all capacities unconditionally, none came. I was called by the people of the Bosnian Krupa who were sent to Tuzlo, why, what does that need? So, if we're talking about integration, it has to be fair, correct, professionally done. Here this vote negatively on the Foreign Affairs Commission has the dominant single line of political nature. The debate on this, the debate on this issue is possible when the Health Department of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the health ministers of entities or cantons are brought in and said – people what do we want from this and what of...? But I'm, I don't have anything to do with how some funding is going to be financed in the medical family medicine anywhere in BiH, but I have to trust the finance sector that prepares it. And secondly... Still, this loan is impossible to gain without respect for some criteria. But let us do it once more when we say - these thieves, let us shut them down, for citizens are not thieves of this land. That's it, thank you. 124
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16805	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16806	Well, I didn't mean to answer, but, uh, since this is already a doctoral or medical problem, I have a few words to say as my opinion and... thing. Of course, I absolutely agree with my esteemed colleague Lazar Prodanović that the proportion of the work and distribution of patients between the two entities is not at work. And there's political stuff, it's, there's nothing to add or subtract, it's a fact. But to make it a little happier, the Heart Center you send a lot of patients to doesn't get any patients from Tuzla, and it gets from Bijeljina, gets, to make you a little happier, gets from Bihac, because local politics doesn't get a patient to the Heart Center. So, in some ways, I'm going to reduce your frustration a little bit. So it's easier if you have an acute heart attack coming from Bijeljina or Zvornik or I don't know, from Pala, than from Tuzla. About our irrational things, I have to start like this. But I must tell you one thing, my colleague Lazare, an idea, I would not consider it a political Commission, the idea is a positive one because these people, the honourable MPs who have made this decision, are what it is and who may indeed be irrational because it has never been made, and experienced. I'm going to say again, a decision has been made politically, one credit has been given to a large centre in which six, seven machines are purchased from which no machine is working today, and neither machine has begun to return the loan. People started thinking – so people these loans and all these irrational things stopped us. I'm looking at it maybe on that side, of course I don't have a lot of political experience like you, and I can't read between the lines whether it's politics or games. It probably works, but I'm saying that if what Mr. Živković said that what we're saying had nothing to do with it, I would end this. It doesn't matter, let it go, and there's no story, but I just have to add one thing to the U.S., I've been very much there, in Western Europe I've been very much there, the concept of primary health care isn't the infirmary, no more nurses, no more nurses, no more medics, no more porters, no more. Mobile medicine is based on the fact that a man with a small car comes in, has his patients and visits his family on the ground. Two thousand ambulances, you know what that is? It's much better to have two thousand family doctors who'll split sectorally and in their cars, now everyone has a car, because cars are very cheap, toss those patients. So it's now our doctoral conflict whether to go to this concept or that concept. So I just want to say one thing, that the idea, that you see how interested we are, that for the first time this Parliament, or some committee, makes a decision, does not give a positive opinion on ratification. Believe me, this is nine and a few million, it's a ridiculous sum of money, it's nothing, but it's probably more dopile to people when they start doing analysis where millions are, already hundreds of millions invested in some projects that don't produce results today. So I can't accept that this is a political decision, maybe it is, it has politics, it's interest, it probably does. And secondly, I absolutely agree with one thing, that this decision, I know what the problem is, is not going to uniformize health, BiH health is divided into two entities and competent, stands clear, but I tell you one thing, I as a doctor work easier with another entity than with my canton, there I'm hated, I don't know why, I'm probably not cute. So it's one, one theater of absurdity where we're participating today. So, let's open this debate because we're on the right track, and 125 health care is, believe me, it's not as poor as we think, health is not at all poor, because if one big center has seven machines, it doesn't work one, six machines, I'm not sure it's a poor health care. Let us fine this point or return this question to the Commission again, that is my proposal,...that committee, with relevant information, will present us at the next meeting of the new conclusions. Well, that would be kind of my contribution, to be, let's say compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16807	Thank you. On June 6, we learned that we could work until 5 a.m. Nermina Ćemalović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16808	This fellow Prodanović, my schoolmate, is not a typical replica of the laundry clarification for the sake of it. As far as the Cantonal Hospital in Bihc is concerned, indeed, everyone, including the RS Health Minister, has offered assistance. But I'm saying the information works, we, we know that the health care at entity levels and federal minister Mr. Mesihović has been involved in all of this since the first day, uh, we have signed the Institute of Health Security of the UN-San Conton signed a contract with two clinical centres, it's Tuzla and Sarajevo and such cases, so they're still going there. And we had real help, we transferred patients to the Sanago Bridge, and we moved something to the barracks, there were about 200 beds, so we were able to resuscitate, let's say and frame those patients, because 400 patients are usually in the hospital, the Cantonal Hospital of Bihac. So there was really no need, but if it were safe we would have included the minister and I thank you this time, because he did offer help.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16809	Thank you. We've also received further clarification. Replica, Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16810	I'm sorry, second replica. I am shocked by the information my colleague Lazar Prodanović said that no patient has come to Bihac and indeed at that reciprocity, from Bihac in Banja Luka, and we really have to work on trust, reciprocity. And I'd just like to say here, my Lazo, since we studied together and colleagues from, uh, this is absolutely not a political decision. The strategy of health care, the health system must be done at the state level because it is under the obligation of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and then only as a state can we go towards the grant of funds and IPA funds. No Niko's talking about taking over any authority of the entity. Another thing, if any political decision had been made, I would now say – if there are two thousand ambulances to be opened, let's fill it in and the private sector, two thousand people will open and get a loan or whatever, hire another nurse, open four thousand jobs. And these people, you from health care will stay in BiH, let's help these people live here tomorrow, not to look for a place in Slovenia, Croatia, Germany, Norway or anywhere else. Because we're going to come as a health population to a health care problem with health workers, as well as all the countries that are already in the environment. Slovenia already does not meet absolute capacity, Croatia very quickly, we will come, first of all, a small number of students are enrolled, we have a very, very old population in medical staff, I'm talking about medical staff, I'm talking about not talking about the specialist staff that has gone due to all the events, this one to America, this in, no matter where and what. And we've lost an expert team and a strong educational center. And if in that direction I thought of either politically or anything then I would suggest that strategies be made and that it all goes into the private sector, that we allow loans to be taken by private people and to make ambulances private. And then we're sure he'll fight for the quality of the service, keep the patient in the highest quality condition, give the highest quality, best service, and provide for his existence, not have to pay to be admitted into a working relationship. We're going from circle to circle, health care and education sectors that are very important to us all. The health strategy is just that it can be used according to IPA funds and grant funds, and it was the responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, why not take advantage of these advantages ahead of us. We haven't been able to compete anywhere for three years, and let's do something that's in the interest of citizens. And those trusts must be used, regardless of whether the patient is from one entity or another, but trust when it's quality, when it's a patient from another entity,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16811	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16812	and the political... is likely to build much better and faster.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16813	Thank you. ... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16814	...and I am trying to get someone back in the right debate, and I don't know how we replaced the thesis and how we came into the situation to discuss health when it wasn't our intention at all on the Commission. I wasn't at the session, but on the previous boards of intensities, let the IDs of my colleagues, the Commission have been in the story of the enormous borrowing of the state and our role in all this. That was the word, don't change the thesis. What a story about health care and I don't know about everything else that we're in, that we're against. That was what our role was and what information we were taking part in, and we asked for help and to explain it to us. We asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs, if you remember, last time on the Commission, we asked the people of the Ministry of Finance to explain our role, because someone will ask, because I would remind you all of your discussions and when the country's level of duty is debated. And when the country's debt rate is debated, I will not stand up and say – Mr. Drago Kalabić in 8 years has owed the country for several billion. Either I am or I'm not. If I did, I'd like the documents to see how I put her in charge and say, "I did." A short time ago, counterpart Bosić told us about this health issue, what is the difference for Trebinje. There's Trebinja, what's the difference? I'm not an expert at saying. Mayor Trebinja says they never got any of this, and we need to give 10 million power plants to finance 127 Trebinje. Here, I'm talking lazily now. Is that so? I don't know if that's because I listen to stories. So I don't feel competent to decide these cases individually. And we asked for help and we came across a wall so this, this morning, would escalate and break like this, that's what it was about. And no, we went into the story now, because the same thing for health care, I must tell you, I was in Prnjavor a councilman when a decision was made here in this House on an agreement with the Government of the Kingdom of Spain on a water factory in Prnjavor which was like all bells praised. This factory never gave drinking water, under this pressure we need to return 5.5 million marks of money, and the story was – you know don't talk because the top experts from Parliament and the Council of Ministers have ended it, it's all good. It's not good, we felt it on your skin that it wasn't good. That's what this is about. And God Bog I'm talking about a single project, because I don't want to mix things up, there's these great things that they need and they have to go through and things that we need to be in charge of, but there are things that we probably don't have to. And we asked for that help, but the people of the Ministry of Finance, from the Foreign Office, are silent. And now I don't understand our role, if I'm not responsible, I'll vote... but if I'm not going to vote, I won't vote for any decision, no decision. I'm going to vote the moment I really get all my paperwork and I can say it relevant -- yeah, that's right, yeah, that's right. Then I stand, so hang me, but I think, but on what Haso would say, let's go to trust, and when it comes to me. Well, some of them have started since we started playing trust. So, don't change the thesis, I'm not going into this health story at all and don't let Bog tell me where they need the money or where they don't need it. There are probably those people who, but the Commission's basic request was to have a relevant debate here, because I return you to the story where we discussed the country's duty.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16815	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16816	Quite the opposite stories, I end up with that, and that's what we're asked to do. And we'll look, here's the end, to clarify our position in all this. If it doesn't matter, I'm pulling everything, if it matters, I'm not going to participate in it this way. No, I'm not going to go public, and God Bog I'm going to stop one project, find a way to go, if there's no help on the other hand, then I'm going to find a way not to be removed.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16817	Thank you. Now we have a clear SNSD attitude. Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16818	Thank you very much. Here, I welcome you to your five minutes at least for discussion. I started this story two, three weeks ago when I got an answer to a question that the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Finance, gave me an answer to a credit debt on the goods loans. These credits were mostly used by healthcare and education. He'll be here to collect 120 million trade loans. And 128 is now asking the question, here they are all implemented, it was approximately between 5m and 10m euros – what is, what has the citizens of both entities, the citizens of BiH got more than health and more than education, and the state is in charge of 120m? I say responsibly that these were the loans that some of them pulled you by the sleeve and talked about – come on, you take that loan, and you'll be good, of course, all of them were gallantly rewarded, the contractors of those loans. And what did it buy? They bought, in one particular case, a lot of storage chairs, and our chairs fell apart, bought Chinese laptops via Austria at a price of two, which is at least three times, three to five times the market price. So, somebody, all those loans are getting by...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16819	I'm sorry, but if it's possible to focus on these agreements that are now on the agenda. We'll have this information...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16820	The question is, therefore, the question of credit debt is the need and analysis and the issue of strategies. I think that, we'll be very soon, when it comes to this, under the pressure that some more credits, to ratify some credit lines, and on the other hand, they'll come to the collection of loans that have been raised and whose grace period has expired. So we're going to have to ratify other loans through this commission to pay back those loans we're in charge of. And I appeal from here, and I also agree with this decision that the Foreign Affairs Commission has made, to think carefully about when and which credit line will be given here for ratification, or we will give consent because tomorrow we will be the ones who will be responsible for the government's task if we go the way that happened in Greece. I won't take any longer. I could've used a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16821	Thank you. I am obliged to tell the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission, Dr Mirza Kušljugić, suggested that, when it comes to this 22nd item of the agenda, if we agree to extend it, it means her vote for the next session of the House, and yet a little further to analyse some things. If you're willing to vote on it. [[Common discussion]] The deal is, it's not the law. Please prepare yourselves, therefore, for the vote to vote on this point at the next House session, we have held a debate. Vote now. Thank you. I agree that this proposal has been given both by the general and entity majority and that we will declare this agenda item at the next 53rd session of the House of Representatives. 129 With this we close the debate on these agenda points and in 15 minutes please be here shortly before half 9. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16827	It's okay now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16828	Is it okay to vote with you now? We'll check it out. I'm asking you to repeat the vote. Vote now. We don't have the necessary entity majority – 26 for, against 14,... but we have 14 against the RS entities. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Report from the field of agriculture for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012, material of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH. We vote on the adoption of the Report with the opinion of the Commission and the conclusions contained therein. So it's about three conclusions. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have adopted the report, that we have both the necessary and the general and the entity majority. We are now voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I realize we have a general majority, but we don't have the necessary entity majority. Shall we go straight to the second round? Let's go, then, right into the second circle. Please prepare. Vote now. I find this conclusion adopted. 132 We are going to vote on the conclusion of MP Ante Domazet. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. [[Common discussion]] We repeat the vote at the request of a part of the MPs. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that this proposal has the necessary general majority and the necessary entity majority. We are voting only now on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Borslav Bojić. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I konstatirati this conclusion has been given plebistic support, without any opposition or abstention. We're done with the 10th agenda. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Report on the Impact Review on the "Work Commission of the BiH Institution", material of the Office for the Audit of Institutions. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have adopted this report, that we have the necessary and general and entity majority. We are now voting within this item of the agenda on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Mate Franjičević. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that this conclusion has been adopted by Parliamentarian Franjičević. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2012, material of the BiH Ministry of Security. We are voting on receiving information with the opinion of the Joint Commission and the conclusions contained in it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16830	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16831	It was the initial proposal that we should not vote in the package but one by one, but I think the proposal makes sense for this colleague, Džaferović, first to make a statement about this one and then to go to the vote here. It makes sense. 133 So, first we vote on the proposal for the conclusion of the SDA Club's MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16832	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16833	It all says what you suggested, no need. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. 22 for, 13 against, 3 abstentions. We have a general, no entity majority. Post-adjustment? Here, democratically we agreed, one will right away, the other won't, which means according to the Rules of Procedure. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Everything and after and what now will not ruin the world. We are going to the 13th item of the agenda – Statement by BiH Minister Fahrudin Radončić on the allegations and claims he made in the Vecernji list "Obzor" on 18.05.2013 against BiH presidency member Bakir Izetbegović and Party of Democratic Action (realisation of SDA MPs' initiative, adopted at the 50th session, held on 18.07.2013.). We are voting here on the proposal for the conclusion of the SDA's MPs, or three conclusions. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16840	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16841	Come on, colleague Džaferović, please tell him what's against the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16842	So this is against the business that you do. We gave the initiative, the initiative was accepted and the initiative was discussed. We've suggested that he thinks it should come out of this, we've suggested conclusions, you've rejected the end point of the agenda. I don't know what you'd be aware of right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16843	You asked us to have a statement from the minister. The man here explained the statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16844	Well, we asked for a statement, got a statement and suggested conclusions after that statement. So they saw what man said and suggested conclusions. You voted on the conclusions that way, and it's over. 135
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16845	No shared discussion microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16846	Okay, I can't decide for myself. I will now ask Parliament if you will... [[Common discussion]] Please prepare to vote. First, we will vote on whether Parliament will declare this. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16849	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-08-29-0.u16850	All right, the other one's gonna get it. We vote in the second round. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I find that the initiative did not receive the necessary majority in the second round. We have 14 against one of the entities. We move to the 15th item of the agenda – Consideration of Parliamentarian Zijad Jagodić's initiative from the 50th session of the House, held on 18.07.2013, which reads: In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I submit a parliamentary initiative to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to hold a public debate/conference on the subject: "The House for Diaspora and Diaspora for Homeland", for which the BiH Council of Ministers would prepare the initial material for the debate." Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. ...so this initiative didn't get the necessary majority. I remind you of item 16. We won't even plead today because we delayed the debate and the plea. We move to the 17th item of the agenda – Consideration of the Commission's Opinion on Gender Equality, which reads: "It is binding on the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit to the Commission, within 30 days, a report on the application of the law in the field of media, as stated in the Commission's request: 01/6-50-3-6-10/13, of 23.01.2013, to the Ministry of Communication and Transport of BiH and the Regulatory Agency for Communications." Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. We have the necessary and general and entity majority, and we have adopted an examination of this proposal's conclusion. We move to the 18th point of the agenda – Considering the proposals for the Joint Commission on European Integration. We are voting on proposals for conclusions, these are four conclusions. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and we adopt these conclusions. I now put the motion to vote on points 19, 20, 21 and 23 of the package. 137 Please prepare. Vote now. I realize we have the necessary and general and entity majority. It now puts forward, therefore, a proposal to vote on giving consent to the ratification of the agreement referred to in points 19, 20, 21 and 23. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. We have the necessary and general and entityal majority, and we have agreed to ratify these agreements. We are now voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mirasd Đugum, which reads: The BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs is tasked with bringing a health system reform strategy to BiH within 90 days. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I realize that we have the necessary general majority, that we do not have the necessary entity majority and that we will agree afterwards. I'm closing the 52nd session. I note that the next one was planned for 19 September 2013. Thank you for your cooperation. Session completed at 21:05 p.m.
