ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-26-0.u14284	I ask my colleagues and colleagues to take their seats. According to our records, we have a quorum, so we can start with the 45th session. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 45th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. The session invited our regular guests, the president and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The absence was justified by representatives Nermina Ćemalović and Emir Kabil. According to service information at this point, there are 28 MPs present, I find that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. This session was called in line with the conclusion of the House College in an extended composition adopted at the 43rd session held on 26.02.2013. On this occasion, it was concluded - that a haste session of the House would be called if the draft law on the amendment and addition of the Law on Single Parent Number was rejected, legislators Saša Magazinović, Senad Šepić, Mirsad Đugum, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović and Beriz Belkić, and amendments to this Law of the BiH Council of Ministers were submitted in parliamentary procedure. These conditions have been met and today's session has been called. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. There's no record of a hearing. I find that the 45th session of the House has the next Agenda 1. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Single Parent Number by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-15/13 of 19.03.2013. 2 Point of the agenda one, Ad. 1. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Single Parent Number by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure The Council of Ministers of BiH delivered the above-mentioned Bill with a request for a preliminary review, with a call for this session. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing, I'm guessing. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-26-0.u14286	So here's what you said about the consequences of today's debate on this law that came after he didn't get the support of the law of a group of MPs. I think the Council of Ministers did what was expected of him this time, to make a law that allows us to verify the constitutionality of him to withstand that criterion, and I think that's the basis for what we're sitting here today at all, hoping we'll think about it one more time before we make the final decision, especially our Federation colleagues, because for us in the RS, it's a question that we don't even ask ourselves. Today, in some newspapers, I read a title that says -- Republika Srpska versus its home number, because it does not want Sarajevo and Pale to be together. The BiH constitutional structure makes Sarajevo and Falle not together today, as they are in two entities. I also hear comments in Sarajevo saying -- that the minister of civil affairs is looking for municipalities and cities belonging to RS territory to be separated from those in the Federation of BiH. I must also say that by signing the Dayton Peace Agreement, they are definitely separated and that according to this, a territorial organization is also established as it is today and in this text of the Law, which the Minister, or the Ministry of Civil Affairs, has delivered for consideration. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The request is finished talking about the law, I beg your pardon...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-26-0.u14288	I'm asking MPs not to discuss from the bench, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-26-0.u14289	So, all the reasons why this law should be in place today, we will fulfill our parliamentary task and vote for what is the constitutional category as it stands in this Law. So, again, I will remind all colleagues that there will be no end to this case unless the Law passes 3 today, no support from fellow Federation colleagues, no longer he will be the subject of this session, at, uh, the House of Representatives session, because the moment this Law falls in the House of Representatives the next day is already the basis for this Law to begin to be discussed in the National Assembly of the RS, so there will be no dilemma that children will still be able to be registered by those who have just been born. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-26-0.u14290	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-26-0.u14291	I apologize for the reaction and Mrs. Majkić and you, but I didn't realize what it was about, what it was about. So, I thought we'd go out first on the procedure, and I didn't hear a word about the procedure, and that's why I reacted, I heard the wording from the papers. So, if we're discussing the procedure, let me say a few words. So, as far as I'm concerned personally, I'm going to support an emergency procedure request for the following reasons, the urgency is absolutely present, we're late, so urgency is an argument that is fulfilled. The simplicity of the law is also, regardless of what's wider, we're looking at it here already, whether, for a few months, we know it by heart. So all the conditions for emergency procedures are met and it is good to see today what the fate of this Law is so that we can look for other solutions. So, as far as I'm concerned, support for an emergency procedure request.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-26-0.u14292	Thank you. I want to say here as chairman, it is true that the distinguished representative in one part of the debate began to talk about the metrics, but later returned to the procedure. And it's also true that we've all discussed the procedure together often, so here's the thing. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, vice-president, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-26-0.u14293	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I respect the business and constitutional opportunity for each of us to propose a law. But it should also be respected that the law comes from the Council of Ministers and that it is also beyond suspicion that it has all the characteristics of the law that can go into emergency procedures. Although someone is opposed to the procedure, this legislative project would be good to be considered here in Parliament in the amendment phase. All we did at the last session was in the spirit of getting to the legal project that we can adequately discuss here with the Council of Ministers and all the other participants and to come if necessary to the amendment phase. I am for this law to be adopted today by emergency procedure and to end the agony in BiH since January. But if you or 4 are not ready for this, I am prepared to go into the amendment phase and discuss here who is against the fact that BiH stands in one number, who is against the fact that the entity or Brcko District stands in the second issue and who is against the third number being a canton? Who in this country is against such opportunities to make a home number? So I will support any of your decisions with the desire to reach the amendment phase and discuss this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-26-0.u14294	Thank you. No more charges for discussion, closing the debate. And we move on to __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Look, what's the discussion or...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-26-0.u14296	I'm looking for a two-minute delay before the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-26-0.u14297	Pause 2 minutes
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-26-0.u14298	We're not going out here in the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-26-0.u14299	Break at the request of the president of the SDP Club, please. [[PAUZA]] Here's the club president, do you need to explain the reason for the break?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-26-0.u14301	I don't have a microphone on.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-26-0.u14302	So, let's move on to the plea and get ready. 5 So we are voting on a request for an emergency procedure. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 31 votes for, with a sufficient entity majority, without votes against, without abstentions, a request for this law to be considered by haste procedure. And I'm opening a debate on the bill. I don't have any charges for a hearing by the MPs. Does the minister need to meet us? There's no need. So we can, we're going to make a statement on the bill. Prepare to vote. Vote now. At the request of the vice president, we repeat the vote. _________(?) Well, if you can take five minutes. [[no microphone turned on]] Pause
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-26-0.u14304	He can't vote, he can't vote, the vote is up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-26-0.u14305	Here, so from the College, but from, at the request of the vice president, we repeat the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, did I hear a good request for a repeat vote? So, at the request of Mladen Ivanković, Lijanović have a third round. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with a total of 15 for, 18 against, without the necessary majority. So this bill was rejected in the first round. Discarded, no general majority. I'm closing the 45th session of the House and the next session is 28. Thank you very much. Session completed at 12:40 p.m.
