ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19246	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, today we are continuing the 60th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Our regular guests were invited to continue the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies accompanying the work of our House, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from the session was justified by Ambassador Emir Kabil. According to the information service, 33 MPs are present at the moment. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. So we move on to realising the adopted agenda. I would like to remind you that we have opened a debate on the proposal for a Bill on the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2014, which is proposed by the BiH Presidency. The draft law in the procedure was delivered on 09.12.2013. The first reading was adopted at the 59th session of the House, held on 12.12.2013. I would like to remind you that the financial and budgetary committee in charge reached its conclusion on 16/12/2013. The Finance and Budget Commission, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, postpones its statement on the Bill's proposal for the Budget of BiH institutions and international commitments for 2014 at the second commission stage, which is why the House session is interrupted. You received a report from the Commission in charge about 11 hours today, after which it was left, according to a previous agreement, within an hour for the submission of amendments to the plenary phase. The Commission adopted 85 amendments. In the plenary phase, the amendment was submitted by MPs: Milorad Živković, five amendments, Niko Lozančić, one amendment, MPs from the SDA Club, one amendment challenging all the amendments of the Commission. I am opening a debate and reminding you that at this session and at the next session, I am limiting the debate to five minutes. For this session, there will be no problem, given that it is a second reading and an amendment phase. The business has Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19247	Thank you. I've also invested two amendments, I don't know why they're not here.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19248	So at this point, professional services have delivered to me the amendments that have been tabled. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19249	...they're... sitting down and there's no spending them again... 2
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19250	Well, here, when it comes to this, here's exactly what MP Lijanović is talking about, yes, I'm going to ask professional services to deliver to us and these amendments of yours, so they too find themselves during this debate. Did anyone else have a business? If not, here's a colleague of Džaferović's, a businessman's, which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19251	So, I have no Rules of Procedure, but the Rules of Procedure which speak of the right of MPs to propose, to defend the amendments which have not been adopted at the Commission's meeting again, have that provision. It seems to me that it's Article 118, Section 2, I think it is, I'm not sure. So, the Commission's session was 16. Right? It was 16, the Commission's session was completed and the report was almost completed and we sat here at Parliament's session. Since the report wasn't there, we split up. People, therefore, were immediately tabled by the SDA after the session that reiterated the amendments that were not adopted on the Commission. So, we've already put those amendments on the 16th floor. You have not listed these amendments today among the amendments that are here. So, I suggest you, since the Commission's session was held 2, 3 times, it started 16. It ended today. There are clubs that have tabled amendments immediately after session 16, and these have been written by people who have been to the Commission meeting, who defend again. They're also amendments like those that arrived today. Just to give such an interpretation, nothing more. Because if only these were amendments, then these people who submitted the amendments after session 16 would be denied to defend those amendments in front of the House again. True, the session is only over today, but this is a specific situation and I ask you to respect it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19252	Are there any other MPs involved in the Rules of Procedure? There isn't. It is about this item of the agenda, MEP Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable ministers, fellow MPs. In the absence of the President of the Finance and Budget Commission, Mr Kabil, I have today chaired a session of the Commission and a committee with 4 votes in favour, and 2 votes against, brought 85 amendments and sent the report for adoption here to Parliament. It has been over the last few days, i.e. in the last 15 days, that the Commission has met 2 or 3, 3 times and has tried to find the best solutions. Unfortunately, it was not easy, nor simple, but in the end, with agreement and what we were doing with the Ministry of Finance, we came up with solutions that are acceptable to us from the SNSD, as well as other political parties that are currently ruling. We had to make some compromises and no compromises, but we are, I must say, satisfied that with this way we have made it possible for BiH not to be blocked, i.e. that the stand-by arrangement and arrangement reached with the IMF about the credit debt, these funds will be realised precisely thanks to the decision being made, that is, if today, and I hope that we will adopt the Budget, so that entities that are as carriers and as holders of economic development, both social and policy, will be allowed to plan their budgets in a good way, given that they have already been planned funds of this kind. 3 Once again, I thank the Commission, which, regardless of the position and opposition, was extremely correct and where we worked together to reach a solution, which we particularly liked. Everyone cared to come out today with a proposal and adopt the report and that, here at Parliament today and enable all those who would like to make other remarks, that they could say so, but I must say that it was extremely correct by the Commission. I'm taking the opportunity to thank you. We from SNSD will accept this report and also Budget as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19254	I thank Ambassador Tomić. So it's about the second reading that consists of the debate and the vote on amendments, so I'd like to ask everyone present that we are actually doing our due diligence today, which is before we start a new House session after this session. Replica, MP Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19255	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I would like to rephrase to the Vice-President of the Commission who really correctly explained the work of the Commission and how and find a solution and everything, but I, as a member of the Commission coming out of the opposition, want to clarify a little bit. Here is the Commission's first session, which meant 16, the budget was in parliamentary procedure on December 09th and boasting how we have unblocked the budget by adopting today's report on the Commission is in some way one questionnaire. The public needs to know, so the Commission is considering, it has exactly as Article 44. The Rules of Procedure, he says -- the Finance and Budget Commission is considering issues related to them, and there are items to which they refer. So it was not the Commission's duty to find a solution. The Council of Ministers was supposed to find a solution. Why wait from 09th to 30th is a question that citizens need to know the answer to. In some ways, it was transferred that the Commission is the one who has been waiting, because of which it has been delayed, because of which the sessions and everything else have been postponed. The fact that it was a negative report from the Commission that these points would not exist, but also the fact that there are enough members of the parliamentary majority in the Commission, that they absolutely did not have any interference. There were no meetings of the Commission at which there were no quorums so that the Commission could not in any way question non-transition, failure to take a stand on the Budget. So we don't think it's necessary to focus so much that it's the Commission that dragged us here and dragged us to the last day of the calendar year, until the last day of the calendar year, and that's some success. However, we will have a delay in the IMF funds, because we have lost about 21 days since the time that Buždet appeared in the parliamentary procedure, that we do not go to those other analyses that were. There's only that much, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19256	The Republic has an MP, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19257	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. 4 My replica will be addressed to the presentation of the deputy chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, while this will be the issue of both the BiH Finance Minister and the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers present here. So it is clear that today, when we take the Commission's report, that our Commission for Finance and Budget has respected the amendments to the parliamentary majority, it returned Budget to the position of the Draft and the position it was in when it left the Council of Ministers towards the BiH presidency and that nothing adopted by the BiH presidency as a proposal for this Budget, compared to that set of drafts, was contained again in the official document. We are now in front of ourselves, so we no longer have a document, a proposal from the Presidency, but we have what was drawn from the Council of Ministers. And all right, that's it, that's the right of the parliamentary majority and we know what this is all about, and my colleagues will probably talk about it later. However, I would like to ask the Vice-President of the Commission, the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, given the various information that has appeared in public since last session of the Commission. I want to be precise here – are the buildings that are being built in Banja Luka and Mostar, which counts when it comes to this Budget and the allocation of funds? I want a precise answer to that question. The public is already calculating that there is a building being built in Banja Luka for the administration of indirect taxation, that there are links between one of the leaders of RS political parties and the one who is building. So this is all from the public. Also in Mostar, the building is already being built, the building is being allocated money for the building and there are links between leaders of some political parties and political parties and those who build these buildings. I want a clear answer to this question here in Parliament today. We should vote. If that's the case then it's catastrophic, we're in a catastrophic situation, if it's not something to say, let it be explained. If nothing, we'll follow this thing. And after this budget is adopted this thing will be monitored, so we'll see what time it is and where it really is. So, before we move forward, I fully understood the position of the parliamentary majority, I remained unclear on these issues concerning these buildings in Banja Luka and Mostar. So, the Commission has recognised the HDZ amendment, as I understand it here, or Mr. Lozančić, and it is not 6 million, but 5, as far as I have been able to understand from the amendment, has been given the item to which Mr. Lozančić's amendment, or HDZ, refers... That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19258	So we continue the discussions. I remind you once again it's a second reading, and it would be a turn for the taxpayers of the amendment, and here they explain their amendments. The word has an MP, Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to point out in front of the SDP Club that the commitment to the Commission's work on budget and finance in coordination with the Council of Ministers has been prepared a positive report on the amendments submitted at the draft Law on the BiH Institutions Budget for 2014. The solutions that have taken place provide a budget framework for the 950m operational budget and ensure the smooth functioning of BiH institutions in the framework of the envisaged strategic plans of individual institutions and the leading development objectives in the coming year in the area of competence, the constitutional competence of BiH. 5 However, the importance of the BiH institutions' 2014 budget is particularly expressed because it is not only a budget for institutions, but rather a budget that ensures the overall macroeconomic and financial stability of BiH, and especially by ensuring the functioning of the entity's budget, in the context of the arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. By adopting this Budget, we are not only creating conditions for institutions to function, but we are creating conditions for hundreds of thousands of citizens who receive pensions, disability, combat fees and others to get out of the blockade, i.e. through the activation of entity budgets to ensure orderly and uninterrupted remuneration payments for these categories of BiH citizens. In this sense, I would particularly like to point out that more than ever, it is shown that we in BiH sometimes ignore the high integration and the fact that we are also operating within a single economic space, because it has proved that without adopting the budget, we cannot implement some of the most important economic decisions in BiH. And that is why I would like to say that the SDP played an active role in the preparation of this budget, i.e. the Final Report, and that it will vote for the proposed Report and the Law on the Budget of the Institutions of BiH, convinced that this is the way in which the biggest decisions are made in BiH and that the budget is actually one of the manifestations, that it is possible to reach a common consensus, and that this should give the hope that in many other areas we can act similarly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19260	I thank my colleague Domazet for fitting in at the scheduled time. Mladen Ivanković, we have a replica, MP Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19261	Here, first of all, let me say hello. It's the hands of a colleague of Domazet. As he said, here on the Commission that there is a high degree of policy coherence, we will see it today and it will be confirmed. And I would just ask a question to my colleague Domazet, because I don't understand whether the macroeconomic policy depends on these amendments that you have agreed on and whether the unique economic space depends on all of these things that you have agreed on, and given the amendments that are 84. And these amendments in 90%, according to what I saw, suggest that the items of remuneration of employees increase, that the items of travel costs increase, that the purchases of materials increase, that the costs of transport and fuel services increase, that the costs of rent increase, that the agreed and other services increase, and that purchases are increased... I don't know what this has to do with macroeconomic policy and what does this have to do with a single economic space? I know very well that it has to do with the conclusions made by this Parliament and this Commission. I know very well that it has to do with the Council of Ministers' conclusion that all this, most of you, today, is to adopt corsa with norms and morals, by killing your like, thinking of the Council of Ministers and our as Parliament, the conclusions, which is that exactly what I've read, we've all come to terms here together and said that there's no point in this country anymore. And here, today, masks are falling again and we see that global economic policy depends on what you said in these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19262	I'm glad my colleague Bursać gave up the replica. He's registered for discussion. I don't think it's good to spread the lines too much, this is a second reading, an amendment debate. 6 A kolega Domazet has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19263	Well, here's what I'd like to say to my esteemed colleague Babalj that the fact that certain items are increasing means two things. First, the draft budget set out by the Council of Ministers itself envisioned significant reductions in certain expenditures. Secondly, an approach has been applied in the Bureau to ensure that, through amendments, the level of the budget and its structure is returned to what was agreed in the Council of Ministers, because it is the expression of the parliamentary majority. Therefore, it should not be fooled by the public that there is an increase, but rather a purely one technical correction. Through the leases, a reduction in the 5% leases you have brought, i.e. the presidency's proposal should practically open the topic of closing several of our embassies, diplomatic representations. The topic would be immediately opened on how the Agency for Identification Documents will address the problem of restoring and issuing identification documents and a host of other things. So, in this sense, I really want to point out once again that the budget, as a political economic act, is the expression of a truly coherent parliamentary majority and as such mature for adoption. Let me remind you, this is the second year in which we adopt the budget in the current year for next year. And if that's something that bothers us, we can also talk about it. I think that we should all be pleased to ensure at least minimal discipline in adopting the budget, because to remind you of the 2011 and 2012 budget, we brought in a year-and-a-half delay, respectively. Now, we're still working, changing practice, and I think that's the progress of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19264	Thank you. The speech is from MP Mladen Ivanković-Lijanović-Lianovic, who has delivered two amendments that he wants to say an additional thing about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear President of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. My amendments concern making up for the damage suffered by poor work, primarily by the BiH Council of Ministers. As a country, by signing the Stabilisation and Association Treaty with the EU, we have committed ourselves to certain things and the EU as well. Five years ago, we made a commitment to create institutional frameworks in BiH in order to be able to withdraw common EU funds from our economy, and in return, we had to allow the EU, or lower protection, and from 2008 until today, we had to reduce customs duties from the EU, so they are now 0. So, we've brought our economy into a very unenviable position. And that's why this amendment of mine says that those we've damaged because of the informality of the institutions that were supposed to withdraw money from European funds, and above all this concerns the Agency for the Payment System in Rural Development, where we directly, by not establishing that Agency, or the payment system, agriculture and rural development damaged 50 million KM. Similarly, the coordination system has not been established. That's what we lost 45 million euros for the other day. Energy policy at the state level has not been adopted, over 100m euros are being lost. ...high education program, so we didn't give any answers here either. 7 First of all, I consider most responsible here the Council of Ministers leading this country. And that is why these amendments refer to correcting the error of those to whom it has been done, and those who have caused that damage to reduce their income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19266	I thank my colleague Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Ambassador Beriz Belkić has not delivered the amendments, but wants to discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19267	Am I right, may I have a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19268	You have your word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19269	Thank you. I'm a little confused by your comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19270	I just read the Rules of Procedure to discuss the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19271	I don't know if you're...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19272	I'm trying to direct the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19273	Have you been monitoring the session's current course?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19274	Yes, the amendments were mostly proposed, if you ask me.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19275	Here, thank you for your warning, I'll stick to the Rules of Procedure. So, the atmosphere in which we are discussing amendments and all these procedural events, etc. kill even the slightest will of man to take a rational and correct look at the overall situation with the Budget of BiH and to understand what eventually turned out to be. Make sure that's how it is. That's number one. Number two, I'm glad this country is going to get the Budget, no matter how much we don't support it as it is for the simple reason that this tape and humiliation of this House and its bodies are ending. So, the BiH Presidency, of course, and the Presidency has been eliminated practically from the procedure and the story has come down, our Commission has been forced, I suppose forced, to ask another body for help, hence its constitutional jurisdiction, the business jurisdiction of the minority to transfer to the Council of Ministers that the Council of Ministers is agreeing, i.e. three people to agree on how to get out of this whole. And of course the atmosphere was created to be or not, all eyes are on this Parliament. The job's long gone. We're talking about 8% of the total public funds, business in entities is over. People have raised budgets, adopted budgets, and it is the BiH Parliament that should, I say, dry it all up. And we stayed, so 8 somewhere on 8% of the total public funds, which will, of course, directly reflect the capacity and competence of BiH institutions, with the prospect that in the next 2.3 years things will remain as they are. He's right, MP Domazet, who says, we're going to be on a deadline, only if we were 2, 3, Mr. Domazet, two, three budgets adopted in December would be a full hit. And here, let me go back to the amendments. I would ask this amendment to LXXIX to be explained to me, so where these five million transfers to the city of Mostar. I don't see the balance in the amendment itself. It may be in the overall amendments, but it is a practice that each amendment has its balance both on the debt and demand side, i.e. that the exact matching of what is downloaded and what is added. I see here where a million and a half go from and I see where 5 million goes, but I don't see where this difference is, from which items it's taken off from. I don't see the balance. And I'd like to be explained where we're from. And I have no doubt that this trend is going on, and we are gone, and we are close to being gone in the Council of Europe, so we are not in the EU, so we are not in NATO. Well, it looks like we're going to be slowly excluded from a series of these international organizations, because people, here, are reducing membership fees, membership funds, so you can expect that too. Here, I hope I didn't take a lot of time and didn't jump out of the Rules of Procedure. One more thing to the amendment's promoters, please the amendment's proposings to understand us. No amendment will be supported, nor will it be against, for the simple reason that this is about the agreement of three people and this is going to go the way it is. This only secreted parliamentary majority will still surface, adopt this, so that we will be abstentioned, regardless of what amendments we would otherwise support, but there is no point and there is no benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19276	I thank Ambassador Belkić. The word is proposed by one amendment, MP Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19277	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests. It would be more than naive to limit itself to the interpretation of the amendment when amendments are explained by those who have not submitted them. Uh, and I have to say it's hard to hold back then so don't talk about the whole whole process in which, here we are today coming up with a situation to discuss the draft budget in the second reading, with expectations different whether it will get finally and verification from this Parliament. In the debate on the budget, in the overall genealogy of making and, here comes the budget at this stage in Parliament, there could be heard. You could hear things today, and many of these structures that appear are very interesting. I stopped being naive a long time ago so I believe they happen to show up. Today we heard there are two suspicious buildings, one in Banja Luka, one in Mostar. Here in Sarajevo, I assume everything is clear, and Sarajevo is the most isolated. The same body, the same institution, same money, same procedure and the same law provides all three buildings, we're just talking about different seats. But the problem is, the problem is that in the heads of us here and we have the majority that are far from this formal parliamentary majority and that arises from case to case when interests overlap. So, uh, I think we're speaking correctly, specifically this one. Some have acted as an opposition even though they were more concerned with the proposal of the Budget than those accused of being the majority. For those who do not know against the draft budget left by the Council of Ministers was the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda. He's a 9-probably opposition in the Council of Ministers... But the budget is supported and proposed by Bakir Izetbegović and Željko Komšić, who are the opposition. Look, I mean, don't lie to this world. What's our interest, I'm talking about the HDZ of BiH? It's not 6 million, which is 6 million, and we're talking about 950 million. To support the budget against whom the Council of Ministers chaired, we didn't ask questions about it in the Presidency. Knowing that, and if we don't adopt the Budget... institutions after temporary funding and we have experience that can do it. What do we need a budget for? We're saving wasteful governments, especially the Federation of BiH government that you all know we don't support because it's unconstitutional, because it's illegal and because it's so much going to get the Federation and all its citizens involved, it's hard for whoever comes after them.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19278	kolega Lozančić, here I have a signalling from some MPs, yet this is a debate on the content of the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19279	I'm talking about the budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19280	The second is reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19281	A second-reading budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19282	You don't at least need a procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19283	We're talking about the second-reading budget, the amendment phase. Well, be careful, uh, so I should explain this amendment of mys. So we also support the government and offer solutions, save, not because of this government. In that government sits the SDA, and that the SDA Minister who there, as if his grandmother had left him in his inheritance, is a cash inn for his return, I wouldn't propose this amendment. I want to explain the amendment. Uh, I've been forced to propose an amendment for the implementation of Annex VII because the current Minister in the Federation Government has not invested any fening in Kaknja and Varesh's space for these purposes since he took over. I have to look here through this budget. If I could solve it through the Federation Government Budget, I probably wouldn't have invested this amendment. And not only for these purposes, and not just for these purposes, means since the BiH budget knows the part about investment in the implementation of Annex VII, I have proposed this amendment, hoping that you will allow, at least through this level of government, where most of us are, to provide some help for those who want to return to those places. So we didn't take from any other items, we didn't take from the salaries, we didn't take from anyone else. So here I appeal this amendment was not accepted by the Commission, and regardless of the fact I supported, as a member of the Commission, I supported these compromise solutions that the citizens of the Federation and the RS, who depend well on entity budgets, would not suffer. Five, six million believe it doesn't mean anything. So, regardless of what they're doing, it's not their fault that the Federation government is the way it is, and they don't have to suffer, and that's why we're giving and we're going to support this budget, but not because of the Federation government, but because of the people of the Federation. Thank you very much. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19284	I need the truth to remind you that Mr. Lozančić is the Proposer of the Amendment and his amendment refers to the rights related to Annex VII. Once again, I remind you, therefore, of Article 119 that this second reading consists of discussions on the content of the proposed amendments. We have one replica. Aleksandra Pandurević, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19285	Thank you, Chairman. I really have to respond to the allegations of an esteemed colleague, Lozančić, about some speculations, about some buildings, godfathers, etc. Mr. Lozančić, if the public service in its central information show shoots the building and says – this is the godfather's building, it means that one of us expects us to participate in something called crime. Before we raise our hand or raise our hand for such an amendment, we want to know why we vote. I do not see that there are praises to the Finance and Budget Committee, which is said by a distinguished colleague of the Domazet, but I see the shame and degradation of this Parliament. And here's why. Because the Finance and Budget Commission didn't do its job in one way or another, but they called the leaders, the two leaders specifically, and then when you connect that the two leaders only negotiate about the 6 million, and not even the Council of Ministers to whom you transferred it, so you see those videos on TV, forgive me, we want to know what this is all about. When it is said to be wasteful governments, counterpart Lozančić said, both entity governments are wasteful, and the Council of Ministers is wasteful. The other night, again at the Public Service, we had the opportunity to watch the Federal Television show rent from party tycoons agencies at BiH level and how much they pay. I think we still need to cut rent and rent costs. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19286	My appeal to all MPs to try to make our views known through discussion, that indeed, given that another session awaits us, we reduce this number of replicas. I know the cameras are here, but it would still be useful to focus on amendments and other readings. Replica, MP Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19287	Here, I'll withdraw my discussion, but in this replica I'll kind of look back at what I wanted to ask. So, we here today hear a general story about how it is necessary for this budget to ensure BiH's functioning, we knew before 30.12., to ensure macroeconomic functionality, that hundreds of thousands of people, who are on the budget and at lower levels, thanks to today's adoption of the budget, should receive receipts, so there is a harmonised parliamentary majority. We hear, of course, and a little more real stories than a colleague of Belkić who says that we were the hostages of a few people who brought us to New Year's Eve, so two or three of us, so that's how many people who decide on all this, so only today in this atmosphere have we brought us into this kind of atmosphere to discuss Budget. So I'm looking forward to getting us a budget and this country needs to get the budget, and that should be this most positive thing that's going to happen here today, but it has to start taking responsibility for the situation we're in and for the moves we're making. 11 So I would ask, of the people who make up the parliamentary majority, who today will vote for Budget, so it would be correct for all of us sitting here, for the sake of the citizens of this country, to hear, in fact, that, since there is a majority, there were 10 days ago, 15 days ago, and a month ago, to explain to us why so far the people have been exhausted, which is why so far the citizens of this country, when it comes to this state budget, have been held hostage, and where is this interest found two or three, so that those 5, 6 or 10 million that were disputed 15 days or months ago, so that they are no longer disputed and that today we will receive Budget? I think that's the answer that people in this country expect from us, and I think it would be quite responsible for people who make up the parliamentary majority today and who are going to adopt this to explain it to us. Thank you very much, I'll withdraw my discussion as I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19288	Well, I think it's been a month since the debate that people already know who the majority is in Parliament, who the majority is in the presidency. The replica has Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19289	I, unlike my colleagues and colleagues who have information from some sources I don't have, am in a worse position. So, unfortunately, I'm not looking, I'm not watching too much Federal TV, I don't have time, and I hope only two buildings aren't being built in this country. That's the problem if you only work two buildings. I would love to, and I hope that a lot more buildings are being built and I want to believe, unlike those who know in advance who will steal anything, I want to believe that the BiH institutions that we have bound up with countless conclusions, with countless conclusions, will, in very due course, solve them in their own premises, which they will legally buy, the accommodation of institutions so that every year, and every year, some of us, we could have resolved that we had started earlier, means we were giving enormously high amounts of money for renting space. Since we're going to have a second session, but on the next one, I'm going to promise a parliamentary question, and I expect an answer, I'm going to ask which lobbys correspond to an enormous lease payment on a long-term basis, and I'm going to ask who owns these premises and under what conditions we've taken and we're paying these leases. So, I have no reason to hide anything and to protect anyone, but there is reason, I have reason to insist on that, at the conduct of our conclusions that BiH institutions finally get their seats in their countries in due time and that we do not pay each year 30, 40 million marks.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19290	Replica, MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19291	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Wherever the building is made in BiH and their builders count on the construction being covered by the BiH institution budget, I am in favour of examining it and making it public. So it doesn't matter where, and in Sarajevo of course, if that's what there is. I'm just saying that the Bosnian Herzegovic public of these two things, which I was talking about, has been problematicd. We are people who have been elected here by the citizens of BiH, we are following what the public is having problems with and how it is polluting, and the most normal thing is for me to ask the Vice President of the Commission, because the chairman of the Commission is not there, the finance minister and the chairman of the Council of Ministers to say what they have on the subject. The public just has to get an answer. And I still haven't got 12 answers to my question. I'm not accusing anyone, I'm just repeating what I heard, and if that's true, I repeat again, that BiH is in a catastrophic situation. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19292	Ambassador Milorad Živković and the vice-president want to talk about the five amendments he has submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19293	Dear Chairman, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think that the purpose of our parliamentary work in the course of this year was that what we discussed here, and after that we coronated some conclusions, as well as the audit reports, as regards the work of the institutions in BiH, should be translated into amendments at the end of the year. It is the work of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the motion of the Presidency to frame these policies and to give us a draft in the form of the budget, but it seems to me that some parts or some conclusions adopted here by the Parliamentary Assembly are not sufficiently accepted or not implemented in an adequate way in this budget. And that's why we're here, and I believe it's the role of MPs, to articulate what this Parliament has done in the last year and what I think it should be part of the Budget. Of course, everything within the scope of the policy and what we've agreed here in the most part and I think we unanimously adopted after the discussion. That's why these amendments I've proposed are heading that way. I will remind you, the amendment concerning the Constitutional Court, that when we discussed this institution here, we were saying that it did not respond to its purpose in the meantime. That the work in that institution is subject to criticism, although everyone warns us that we must not speak either of the decision, nor of the work itself, but you will agree that they have asked that all in BiH be public, so that members of the Constitutional Court will be at the top. There's been talk of wages here, and we forget that these people teach at two or three colleges, that they have more income than everyone else here, and they're sorting it out with their own rules. These rules only when we gave the constitutional assessment that they were not competent to discuss their rules, etc., etc., that I do not list that they would not cause any negative rhetoric about it, but that is a fact. And that money I think they should get, as they got last year, that they don't need to be increased budgets and we need to direct them, in my proposal, to address the care of BiH institutions. I will Podsjetić you that it was also the conclusion of this House, that we asked the Council of Ministers to find a way to remove the fees for renting space as soon as possible and to build their own buildings. The Council of Ministers did it in some places, and here I think it's a possibility for us to go and this institution to settle. The second amendment concerns the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I think he's logical and justifiable, and I'll remind you that just a few days ago, the Ministry of Finance did, and so did the entity finance departments, signed a memorandum with the European Commission on donation and assistance to the prosecution. That's the amount that for bh level, I'm not going to deal with the entity level, it's 2,583,000 euros. I ask, here is the Council of Ministers – are these funds calculated in this budget for 2014 for the Prosecutor's Office? If they are, in which items they are, that we can look, if they are not, why not, and why the prosecution is increasing funds beyond what they got through donations. What are these jobs that require such funds to be given to the D.A. and after they've received a donation that no one can take from them? Did the D.A. deserve that much money? And I ask – did the BiH Border Police deserve that amount of funds? So we have people out there who are untrained at border crossings, we have messy border crossings, we have misery, and at the 13 borders of BiH as far as this institution is concerned, and we give the Prosecutor's Office that gives both hands and hats and various donors and the European Commission, the IPA Funds in 2014, the Prosecutor's Office gets from IPA funds. They keep getting the funds don't do anything or do anything wrong under political influence, and we don't give them anything from the BiH institution that needs money. Not to mention amandman III and IV, we said, we talked, the review said what it had on these institutions. Isn't it logical that institutions that haven't received a positive rating or have received them with a reserve in some way as parliamentarians, by adopting this Bužet we punish them. So isn't that a policy of debate on audit reports if we don't translate it into amendments and then implement it in Budget. And last amendment, I ask my colleagues in the Commission – have you even looked at this amendment? So this amendment applies to vehicles that are to be purchased for the College next year and transferred to Members' clubs and you won't accept it. I really don't know what else to do, what direction to go and suggest that we be here at least principled in proposing conclusions, proposing amendments and adopting budgets. I think that, and here I am saying this, that I will no longer appear unless someone challenges me with a replica, but if the first two amendments are not accepted, which I think are logical and reflect the position of the Parliamentary Assembly, I give up all amendments afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19294	Thank you. Replica was registered by MP Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19295	Well, I listened with attention and, of course, read the amendments of fellow Živković and the explanations, somewhere they are at the logic border, and somewhere they are not, according to my assessment of course. I would not agree with the assessments given by my colleague Živković in relation to the Prosecutor's Office and the Constitutional Court, I do not know, about their financial needs, which were shown where they should have been shown, but because of the qualifications given by fellow Živković, I disagree with them in order to increase the items on some other basis. However, I have one question, although it seems quite lyrical to me that there is a need to strengthen the capacity of the Border Police, border crossings etc., but here is my question regarding the following – if we did so, fellow Živković, as you suggested, does this mean that at many border crossings where only the flag of the RS exists, we will also have the flag of BiH? That's one thing. And secondly, will that board -- welcome to Republika Srpska, be replaced with a board or perhaps add a board -- welcome to BiH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19296	Replica, deputy chairman Milorad Živković. After that, we'll go with the discussions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19297	You know, this is already a common practice that people who call themselves opposition do nothing but criticize. I would like to see really your amendments, that potential your party has, personal potential and any other potential to discuss whether they are within 14 limits of logic or within the limits of logic, so here I am also talking about the flags that are at the border crossings. But you obviously have nothing to offer this Parliament, or this state, and that your amendments here would cause no comment, no explanation, so I won't engage in a fight with you when you have nothing to offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19298	Replica, MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19299	Yet fellow Živković got into a fight. What amendments to the situation I was talking about. You come in an hour before the session, half an hour before the session, and then you tell us three times in half an hour, in an hour there'll be a commission, there won't be a commission, you call and here you go. Well, nobody's crazy about getting into that farce I was talking about. Who has the will to engage and try to do something about things that are uninstitutionally negotiated by this Parliament. Our commission, it says, expressed dissatisfaction that it is late, etc. If it's late again, she'll express her dissatisfaction again. Well, you've brought this House to nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19300	My colleague Belkić had another replica. Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, the second is whether, which is the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19301	I would remind my colleague Živković if I had asked a question about his discussion and his amendments to get an explanation. So, your comment, colleague Živković, was beyond any logic.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19302	Ambassador Salko Sokolović is the signator and promoter of nine amendments he wants to speak of in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, first of all, let me express my dissatisfaction that you've shortened the time for discussion. Once a year, we are discussing the Budget Law, a fundamental law that determines many things when it comes to BiH's future and you have now reduced it to 5 minutes. Here, now I'm wasting extra time on it, I don't think that's good, and I had to show it to my dissatisfaction. The U.S.A. has made amendments that you said I invested, and I expect another colleague to discuss, but here's a short period of time I'm going to try to sublime a few very important things that... I want to point out in one place, is it? That means today we and the Budget Proposal will not support, we will not support the amendments proposed for two essential reasons. It is one thing that you changed the Presidency's proposal up and the other thing that no amendments were adopted on the Commission proposed by the SDA Club. Because of the public I want to once again here that, and we are in fact defending this presidency position here today, I want to say that the basis for redistributing funds, which the Presidency has made, is to respect the economic situation in the 15th state of BiH, which means limiting and reducing public spending. With 80 and some amendments to the Commission or amendments specifically submitted by the SDP and the SBB, you have annulled all what the Presidency has done or tried to do to see the real situation in which we live, which means that it tries to limit and reduce public spending. Through all these amendments you've invested here, this public spending is increasing again. Here, I hear here some arguments now that there is a need for additional funds to rent, for, however, we have an economic situation in BiH that is not good, we have a decline in real estate on the market and certainly those who have negotiated previous real estate arrangements could at this stage enter into additional arrangements, reduce that price and part of the funds, when it comes to paying rent, reduce and target certain institutions that are necessary to have enough funds to function. Obviously, it was not the intensity of the ruling majority, obviously, here is Mr. Živković just said that it was also done in accordance with the decisions or opinions of the Audit Office. The Audit Office has just said – your travel expenses are great, your use of the phone, these passenger cars are non-transparent, here is this rental space. So, in that part, it's safe, if we wanted as responsible citizens to point the right direction and escape from the great waste of funds, we could listen to the instructions given by the Office of Audit and in this part reduce those budgets and direct them there, I say, where the institutions of the BiH state can function better. There is one absurd thing here, the Minister of odbrana addressed the members of the Bureau that they were correcting his budget because he could not with his hand at the Council of Ministers' meeting to correct the budget in that essential sense, and the meaning of this was that he needed funds to feed soldiers, to accommodate soldiers, to operate helicopters, etc. So this is all this, all of these are the details that led the members of the Presidency towards one correct draft of the budget that they forwarded to the parliamentary procedure and, I say, which has made the amendments predominantly SDP and SBB, because the signatories on these amendments have adjudicated and made it wasteful again. As for the amendments tabled by the SDA, they go in the direction of our principle that this is a small framework that has been returned to the fiscal, global framework in 2008, that the BiH state needs more resources to be able to function in an adequate way and then we have proposed that a few amendments go in the direction. Here, someone was just talking about refugees, no one except the SDA suggested a 6 million-dollar amendment so they could implement the revised strategy for refugees and displaced persons.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19304	The time of fellow Sokolović is up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19305	Here's just one more piece, a few minutes. The funds we've proposed here...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19306	I've already moved in half a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19307	...two million to be able to complete the works around the Srebrenica Memorial Centre, and the Border Police, and what is very important we suggested that once in BiH we get into a situation so that we can fight the fire, we suggested how this should be done...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19308	Leave something for Asim. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19309	... planes that can be in the position of some fire squadron, to somehow protect the BiH state as good and as citizens. But here, obviously, the parliamentary majority at least had no understanding on the Commission. I hope that our fellow Members here in a different way will understand this initiative and support our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19310	Thank you. Replica, MP Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19311	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I'd just look back at it, and I'd put a replica on the exposure related to the funds required for the extraction of the helicopters and the rest. As a member of the Defence and Security Commission, we have repeatedly insisted in this House, reached conclusions and pointed to helicopter-related problems, and of course the defence minister understood and asked for funds to ensure that this big problem is resolved. On the first occasion, the Council of Ministers did not approve the funds, so it also addressed the Presidency. However, in the meantime, the Council of Ministers approved, not only 3.5 million wanted funds but 7.5 million for this year and next, which in fact met all the demands made by the defence ministry, and I do not see that there is a need to discuss it more. I expect that these problems, which have already begun to be solved, will be resolved to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19312	Vice-President Božo Ljubić also wants to talk about the content of the proposed amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19313	First, I certainly want to touch the proposed amendments in my debate, but I also want to use this pay phone date to replicate some discussions, so I wouldn't have to get up twice and bother you twice. So, in any case, I'm going to support the amendments that the Committee has, therefore, supported and I think we should also support this budget, because it's certainly better than not to support the situation we're in. On the other hand, there are certainly some among these amendments that I would personally support and that I will personally support, but without, as I say, being very confident that they will be adopted and in any case refer to the amendments that are related to Annex VII, that is, the amendment of my colleague, Niko Lozančić, and I am even thinking of supporting one of the SDA, so even though it is an opposition party. But, in particular, some of the amendments of counterparts Živković, and those relating to the costs of BiH institutions that we can influence. Well, my question, here's even the Council of Ministers -- how come there was an item in the vehicle procurement budget for the College members, and we didn't even ask for it, actually. And in any case, I support that amendment by my colleague Živković to transfer those funds to where they are more necessary and more exploitable. But as for some of the debate here, first of all, I want to focus here on the debate, or it was a replica, a colleague of Belkić, who says that, if I remember correctly, the parliamentary majority of the 17 or the College led to, I say, this Parliament in a humiliating position with regard to the budget. I would like to say here that we all together, as a country, have brought ourselves into a humiliating position by agreeing to take part in a total consolidated budget in BiH or aggregated, however you will, the state participates with about 9%. And of those 8 or 9%, we are essentially discussing here about 8 or 9% of what is 8 or 9% of the consolidated budgets, because the main items are, therefore, the return of foreign loans, salaries and costs of BiH institutions are practically given. Finally, if we look at the Fiscal Framework, which we adopted two, three years ago, we see that the budget actually doesn't change more than a few percent. And if we focus on the very Budget Law on Table 2 which speaks of the balance sheet of expenditure, we see that, here, in those main items, we're all going around about 2% together. So there was no reason. And it's kind of my replica to my colleague Domazet, that we're boasting that we're adopting the Budget in the course of this year, because we should have discussed it long and long ago, but why not. I'll say it here no matter who I resent. We are not because of the irresponsibility and the unhappiness of the nominally most responsible institutions in BiH – the Presidency. So, which is actually the only job this year that, and most importantly, to propose a budget, they haven't been able to do it in a month and a half since the Council of Ministers sent them the proposal. So, once this public should say it here, not transfer the ball here to Parliament, to the Council of Ministers, etc., why we are doing it in a teat, why we are unable to intervene more creatively in the budget. We are not because we are in a teat and because we need to ensure the functioning of institutions that are outside these state institutions, which are primarily entity institutions, and that entity that actually, as my colleague Lozančić said, is both wasteful and irresponsible, and unconstitutional actually behaves. Well, we have a paradoxal situation today that we're actually discussing 9% of the 9%. So, as we pretend to create a policy, and in fact in entities, I know confidently about the Federation, where only 20% of the funds go to costs, so institutions, salaries, etc., and 80% are non-transparent transfers, which are then even worse focused only on certain areas in BiH and these areas under the majority control, so the oligarchies of one nation. So these are the things we need, and in the cantons of the Federation, the same thing as the state. With 10% to 20%, so to speak, you can make some policy, 80% are paid funds, etc., and expenses. Now, these are the things that we should be doing as a state institution, which we should take care of if we truly want to create a policy in this country. So, I'm saying, I'm going to support the budget because it's less damage, to adopt it the way it is than not to adopt it. But basically, if we want to create a policy, then we have to be able to create a policy in the state, and the state is both entities, and the county, or cantons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19314	I remind you one more time, so the other is reading. I call upon all those who have applied for replicas to give up if possible and return to the amendments. As we can see, they didn't follow that proposal. The replica has another Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19315	My colleagues, Živković, let me just say that as far as my colleagues' amendments to Živković are concerned, we from the SDS have also supported them on the Commission, and we agree with Mr Živković's amendments. But I also have to say that what we did together, and if Bog is likely to do in some things in the future, with regard to colleagues from the SNSD, means when it comes to adopting the budget for 2014 and the amendment, why did he get the support of the SNSD increase, 18 means the Budget of BiH, and why did they support the increase of the budget to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council? I don't think that was correct from the SNSD, here's to say, to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19316	Ambassador Asim Sarajlić wants to draw up a replica and discussion in three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19317	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to replicate my distinguished colleague and friend, Mr. Ljubić, on his discussion of the presidency's responsibility on the very project of adoption of the Budget. So, about Budget and budgets over the past three years, we from the U.S.A. have talked a lot. By adopting this 950 million fiscal framework, the situation was actually used to kick the SDA out of the ruling coalition in some way, and we respect that, and that fiscal framework remained as it is. However, what today's discussion and this document itself from the Council of Ministers has been saying to date is that we don't really know who the government is now in BiH. We then, you know, rebelled, yelled about how insufficient the fiscal framework is, 950 million is little, we'll stop on the European path, there's no financial support for integration, etc., so we've proposed amendments. And the amendments are, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, always the ammunition of the opposition. The amendments don't put in a position. The position she wants to install in Budget, and that's how things work out everywhere, from local level to budgets that are being adopted around the world. So, we had a situation today that, here we were, expanding the fiscal framework so the amendments were thrown out, we have today a position that, here our member of the Presidency behaves within the framework that you have found, that your review in terms of reducing public spending, to support certain projects that are integral to character, doesn't fit either. We have, therefore, a Budget that does not support the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and such a Budget goes into further procedure. The presidency as a formal proposal welcomes the Commission, which deletes everything the Presidency has done inside, I repeat, that 950 million-dollar framework with amendments to SDP and SBB. We weren't good when we suggested more, now we're not good when we propose within the box. We again today from the U.S.A. propose these amendments that extend. But here I don't understand why Mr. Živković's amendment, which would also personally support some, is where Mr. Lozančić's amendment came from, if they were supposed to be in position and the Council of Ministers and this Commission installed their amendments so that we have it ready today on the table. It is obvious that power is somewhere else, power and decision is not in the presidency, it is not in the Council of Ministers, because here is Vjeko Bevanda did not vote for this Budget, is not here or in Parliament, because Niko and Živković are investing amendments. Then where is the government in BiH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19318	A colleague, Sarajlić, has spent much of the truth, saying about what his colleague Ljubić was not talking about, but here we have allowed. The Republic has Salko Sokolović. Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19319	Replica is Mrs. Uzunović and Mr. Ljubić. So, in addition to the funds needed to reparate the helicopters, at least the presidency's defence minister asked for a lot of 19 more funds to feed the soldiers, to get medical checks, and not to add any more, they'll get whoever they want in writing. But this is what I'm saying, so the presidency has been late for 35 days, Mr. Ljubić, to receive the draft bill from the Council of Ministers. Whoever's next... I'm not saying the Council of Ministers is wrong. Did they sit there and at a meeting of the Fiscal Council in time defined the Global Fiscal Framework, see if they needed to revise it according to Article 11. Laws, etc., but apparently the Presidency reacted in time. But what we've been waiting for from 09.12. to this day, tomorrow night is New Year's Eve, not 10. So on December 9th, we got a proposal, a draft budget from the Bureau, and then we had a series of committee meetings. Let me tell you why.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19320	A kolega of Sarajlić, just to allow his colleague Sokolović to express his position.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19321	Because the HDZ amendments have led to a certain blackmail of the parliamentary majority. And I said to the media, there are those who are being blackmailed and there are those who blackmail. When do we get the Budget? Well, when agreed, either these blackmailers give up or those blackmailers get what they need. That is why I advise Mr. Živković to do the same if he wants to resolve his amendments, if he has not agreed earlier, with blackmail. Because there's no SDA, there's no SDS, you're all out of the parliamentary majority, there's so much left of you that you can blackmail each other. That's why we're adopting Budget today, not 2.5 months ago, to solve this dilemma, and it's not the Presidency's problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19322	Ambassador Božo Ljubić, deputy chairman, has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19323	Well, I think that in their replicas, colleagues Sarajlić and colleagues Sokolović actually gave an answer to who is the authority here and who is the opposition. In fact, they appear today as lawyers of the top government in BiH, or the presidency, which is actually part of the answer to who the government is. On the other hand, they are the sovereign government of a larger BiH entity, which has approximately 2/3 of the resources and about 2/3 of the population and most of the Federation cantons. Therefore, if we were to weigh who is in power here, then it is clear that the SDA is essentially the government here both through the Presidency and through the Federation entities and through the canton. And therefore, by doing so, we will also measure responsibility for successes, including failures here in the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19324	After the surgically determined structure of the ruling one, Saša Magazinović has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19325	Thank you, Chairman. Just do the truth and do the truth. We received Budžet who proposed the Presidency to votes members of the presidency of Željko Komšić and Bakir Izetbegović. The SDA voted on the Finance and Budget Commission against the Budget Proposal sent by Bakir Izetbegović. 20 _________(?) That's not true. Yes, it is. Well, he then voted in parliament here against the draft budget sent by Bakir Izetbegović. SDA voted. I mean, the truth works, just to sort things out. And then now they defend that same budget they'll be against again when they come to the vote. Since we are talking about amendments, the SDA proposes that all amendments adopted so far be eliminated and that it return to the proposal that is, here is the proposal by Bakir Izetbegović. Well, then what's it gonna be? Then he will vote again against what Bakir Izetbegović has proposed. So I think the circus you're making out of this whole story, that's the point. I mean, it's a circus and you say, "Let's finish this year, let's adopt this budget more, and then come here and play the opposition." And you're playing the opposition, you'll see it from two initiatives, this one that's great, colleagues of Lozančić on the premises, who rents, at which price, from which you'll see where you are, and you'll see it from the initiative, which I assume you will support, which we will initiate at this next session, to form a temporary commission of the Representative's House to determine the total consumption of budget money on behalf of income and privileges in the past two mandates, but not only for ministers and MPs but also for directors of agencies and government officials, so you'll see what you are and who you are. But don't do this a little bit, as you said, let's adopt the Budget, so that's your word and get into New Year's Eve. Here I am, asking you, don't do us, I can take it all, I just can't bear to be underestimated that I don't have that much intelligence to remember what happened 15 days ago when you voted against what Bakir Izetbegović offered. And not once, but twice, on the finance and budget committee, and then on the tide. And now you're defending it again. I don't know. Happy New Year to you too.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19327	Ambassador Amir Fazlić has 3 minutes for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19328	Well, I'll connect three minutes to Dr. Ljubić, and three minutes to Magazinović, that's six, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19329	You're right about that, but I'll only have three.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19330	I'm kidding. Only to the esteemed Dr Ljubić, as I recall at the first reading of the Budget was the exact chronology of the movement of a document called the Budget. So, when he went to the Bureau, when the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, when the Presidency delivered it to parliamentary procedure. And nobody did, we said, we realized, that everyone was carrying part of the guilt because from the beginning the Budget was late. That's when you weren't there, because we were waiting for your voice to pass the Budget in the first reading. You came on a plane, and we were waiting for you and us from the opposition because it was in our best interest to let the first reading pass. At the Commission on Finance and Budget, which I am a member of, we wanted to extend the budgetary framework, and if there were no members of the Presidency who said they were from opposition or position, as some of you say, that this is the real core government, it would be questionable whether Budget would be here today to discuss it, or when it came here to Parliament in 09. And I, if I were the chairman of the 21 Council of Ministers and I didn't support him in the first phase, so I'd probably resign because of my responsibility and something I disagree with, and it's important for this country, for this country, I'd resign, at least offer my resignation. Here I wouldn't, this Saša Magazinović thing, you supported this, you supported that. We're the opposition. We are the opposition, and we supported, no need to laugh, we supported Budget and added some amendments in the first reading. Not one of our amendments, not on the Commission, will be accepted today, and I don't see any reason why something's sewn together for us to hold something back, to slow things down. Gentlemen, you have a parliamentary majority, we believe that the current situation as you have suggested is not enough to finance BiH institutions, vote, you have a majority. And there's no need for this kind of replication and wheezing that we from the opposition, only 3, 4 have replicated us very, very briefly, for this kind of document that we bring and the importance of the document that we bring.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19331	Once again, I remind you of article 119, so another reading, a debate on the proposed amendments. Replica second, MP Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, the replica of my esteemed colleague Magazinović. If it were luck that the Presidency had unanimously adopted the Budget, at least then it was lucky when it didn't happen that Željko Komšić remained a member of the SDP and not moved to the Democratic Front and that we had this strong probossan bloc, as we like to say from both the SDA and the SDP, so we have a proposal from the two of them on the Commission. And so we knew what SDP and SBB would do, so we repeated these amendments. So, if we had given up on the story of Bakir Izetbegović, we would not have repeated his amendments today that, I say within the budget framework, order things. And plus we added these amendments we had in the previous phase. So, colleague Magazinović, it is aware that Budget is politics. I was just asking here who that politics is here in BiH. If it isn't Željko Komšić, if it isn't Bakir Izetbegović, if it isn't Vjekoslav Bevanda who, here from Nika we heard, didn't vote for Budžet on the Council of Ministers, who is politics? And I absolutely support your idea of reviewing which of the budget funds uses as much for the leases as anyone has benefited from the budget. I hope that these payrolls, which are going around these media outlets in the Federation, will expand, too, so that we can see how whoever acquired some property and how the person in BiH came to capital. Here, we from the SDA are ready to always support this and certainly that your initiative that you propose we will support, to see how it is who acquired the property in this troubled and no BiH in the last 18 years.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19333	The Republic has an MP, Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19334	Although business is not foreseen first, I will confirm the exact allegations of a respected colleague, Saša Magazinović, and then I will use the right to... incorrect allegations. According to a respected colleague, Sarajlić -- no BiH, it is not nice to speak for the self-proclaimed guardians of this country. I think this country is beautiful, it's the most beautiful in the world and it's nothing. The second thing is 22 is what we who live in it and manage this land. That's another question. But I don't think, I think it's a lapse you said. Next thing you know, you've been and voted in public against the motion of your esteemed vice president, V.D. The position of the president, when it comes to the principles of the budget. So, both at the commission stage and here. That's true. But what you did back then is not a problem, but you are now against his principles. You're talking... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] But you're talking, watch out, so you have the amendments you gave us, you're talking about saving, and you're proposing an increase in the budget by 31.5 million. Well, if it's saving, it's an affair. You should've at least been 150, I mean maybe you wouldn't have seen it, you see this 30 million you increase the budget and you tell all of us how you're saving. Thanks to the fact that we, who have a responsibility to the citizens of the Federation, will support this budget, your Ministers in the Federation Government will still have bags that they will be able to dispose of, as they have so far. But you're also against your ministers, not... against a member of the Bureau, because you won't vote for the Budget that allows them the next tranche of the stand-by arrangement, you haven't voted for this Law on Electropresence that allows them the same means to cover the holes they've made. Well, come on, I mean what principles you're talking about. So persistent, and distinguished colleague Sokolović, this building is not going to be built by the institutions in my constituency. Mr. Sokolović will do that in your constituency. And I think you should support it for that reason as a representative who comes from that constituency to build BiH institutions there. Not only do Hrvat live there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19336	Second replica, MP Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19337	Here, given the circumstances, there are 99% of Hrvat living. So that's what this area was offered in the northern camp, so no one found it appropriate, Mr. Lozančić, to say that's the space. That's what you'd be talking about for a long time and a long time. Where is this place? So where the Hrvat are most, if we were to open that story, we would concentrate everything, just here, tents on this other side where the Bošnjak live. Let's finish this story. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Magazinović, it's a demagogy you're talking about. You know well, and you can't here people who have been living parliamentary life in one way for so many years. There's a second reading first. It's known how it is done in the first reading. We were basically against the first reading that anyone proposed it because it didn't break the budget framework, and the second thing is what we would do in the second reading, regardless, here we are, and now we're offering you, here's a proposal from the Bureau to vote for Budget. Here I am, without consulting you, I'm telling you that the SDA Club will back it up. And the rest of it, it's all kind of that demagogue story, and you can't in that way deceive the public and the procedures that Parliamentarian has through the first and second reading that you kind of devalue. We have always been part of the story that BiH draws forward and we have not disputed the story 23. You've been through what's been going on these days, one way you've been doing it, because the blackmails that lasted I'm not sure it'll end today.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19338	We're done with the discussions. The proposed amendments also want to be discussed by MP Zvonko Jurišić, although he did not propose any amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19339	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Right, you said well, I didn't propose an amendment, but here's the need to comment on a whole set of amendments that will be an integral part of, I hope, today this law means the Budget of BiH Institutions. We have witnessed that we have a political play all month long when it comes to the budget of BiH institutions where we have shown that the institution, that our Commission for Finance and Budget has no influence or authority, and in political power as well as this Parliament to bring the budget as we would like, that is, what the parliamentary majority would like, but that determines a few, one, two, or possibly three people. There have been several discussions in this direction, and I have particularly watched the discussions that have been in the direction, namely that this is a success for this Council of Ministers, or for this Parliament, if we adopt this calendar year's budget for the next year 2014, which I do not at all consider to be a success but I consider it a commitment, means the legal obligation of this Parliament. And we had, as some of our colleagues were saying, very clear here and the document that talked about movement, when it came to the proposal, the draft, how they moved, means when they held a session. And if we were so responsible and aware of the citizens of BiH, and particularly of the entities under which they mentioned several colleagues here, we would adopt this Budget 09.12, and thus we would meet the obligations of BiH when it comes to budgets, is that, in order to obtain the necessary tranche of IMF funds for the financing of entity institutions, cantons and municipalities, and not states, as our finance minister likes to say, that by adopting this budget and that BiH has none, there is no obligation to this IMF. We, therefore, have also failed to meet our irresponsible behaviour, i.e. the irresponsible behaviour of the parliamentary majority, which we have taken over from the EU, together with the EU, so we have lost a grant of 45m euros for this next year or for the next period. Here, I mean it as much as we are responsible, and now we are saying that this is a great political success by adopting today's budget, where, I say, there has been a political play in the past, to express our concern for the citizens of the entity, above all, the Federation of BiH. You do not need to express concern for the Federation of BiH. If the government of the Federation of BiH, so refuses or is it at the last minute, then at the last minute, the World Bank's funds at very low interest, about 2 to 3%...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19340	kolega Jurišić, this is not the content of the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19341	Well, there was, there was, the chairman there was this kind of discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19342	So do not look up to them. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19343	So listen, you always seem to warn me because I say the right things, and you don't like to hear them. Well, that's why I'm saying that in these Federation institutions, so we're refusing a 120 million-dollar World Bank loan, we're concerned about how the Federation will function. I also voted last time for the amendments to this Electricity Act where my colleagues assured me that these funds would go to a small and medium-sized economy and entrepreneurship, and I see that the finance minister, he's struggling with payments to a certain extent, so he says they've run out of IMF funds and these Elektroprenos funds, so I can't make these payments on a regular basis. So some entities, and we here too, make certain savings, and obviously we can, and especially put pressure on those institutions whose founders, depending on what level of government, I've talked about that several times. And here, I'm going to remember once what they say to the lists, that they're walking, about the pay height of the last time we've had Derk leadership here, I'm thinking here behind this chair when I asked them what their wages are, is they, they've multiplied me some coefficients and they came to the salary of 4,500 marks, and they're 6,500, that's what we've seen, is it? So there is a lot of room to introduce order into institutions, both BiH and entity institutions. Here, just for a little while longer, here, I'll go back to this part, amendment XXIV is, I don't think there's any way that anyone could support this normally, where it says about funding the right...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19344	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19345	from Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, where 12 million marks were planned, 10 are removed and 2 remain. So even if we see that Mr. Lozančić's amendment also applies to this item, that with these 10 that are already gone, and this will become an integral part of this law, to take down 1,700,000. Here, it is only the relationship between this Parliament and the state of BiH to the implementation of Annex VII, the right to return everyone to its hearth fair compensation for the lost.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19346	I thank my colleague Jurišić. Ambassador Petar Kunić did not propose amendments, but wants to discuss the proposed amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19347	Chairman. I would like to address some questions and support some amendments, specifically Mr. Živković. Of course, when it comes to Budget, it is an important document of every country that is brought in at the end of the year, where several factors are included – the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, but one fact needs to be found that coordination between the Presidency and the Council of Ministers is none, that coordination is entirely... which is unimaginable in one state community, unimaginable. So that's something amazing. What else was I gonna say? Mr. Živković proposed amendments that were really acceptable, and which I was talking about here, especially about the costs of the Prosecutor's Office, the Constitutional Court, etc. I don't know why you keep looking for funds for these institutions. These are institutions that are preceding 25 of their salaries, which have the highest salary in this country, which are also the most inefficient institutions. Of course, I'll rule out that little Constitutional Court. But the prosecution and courts are the most inefficient institutions in BiH. And this should be a serious problem for this Parliament and the BiH governance system at all. It's never been put on the agenda with one serious dose. It is placed on the agenda when it comes to reports, audit reports, conclusions that you can draw and you do not have to make, because they are not implemented. The question arises who is in charge of Parliament to force these conclusions, i.e. the Council of Ministers to implement those conclusions. Well, we've had a debate here on the execution of the Constitutional Court's findings. Imagine, please, procedures are being initiated by the prosecution against members of Parliament. Well, that's not Tungusia, that's not what Tunguzija can't allow. Well, it is known who enforces the laws, so Parliament is not for that, for that is the Council of Ministers, or the Council of Ministers through their ministries, the adequate institutions that execute it. But why, that's the fundamental question. Well, we're not, so I don't agree that we're an unfinished state, but an unfinished state in a legal way. So, the unsettled state of law, the institutions are not arranged with which we are at our disposal. We are constantly struggling, or controversing about the transfer of competence, whether this jurisdiction here, there, etc., instead of focusing on existing institutions, to sort out existing institutions, so we would not have problems like this. This is all a rotten granola for me. It's really inefficient, etc., etc. As far as these costs are concerned, I'm almost degutantly talking about expenses. Obviously, the political elite, therefore ruling, has no political will to have a serious debate on corruption and organised crime in BiH, as well as in BiH institutions. Well, please, I'll just say one more sentence, so we've got more executives in the executive power that drivers drive women, children, who serve Saturdays and Sundays cars. Well it's a feudal relationship, it's a time of feudal relationship in certain segments of this country. Well, let's get some consciousness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19348	Replica has MP Milorad Živković, deputy chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19349	Thank you. I don't have a line to a respected professor. I have a replica of previous exposure. In fact, some of my colleagues asked what happened to the other amendments. I looked at it in the meantime, and I see that the BiH Court only increased by 19,000. But I also expected other colleagues to propose amendments that would also support me. I'm also talking about the SDS amendment that needed the funds back, because I voted for the conclusion that those funds would return. But I don't see those amendments, I can't vote for them. They're not here right now in the amendment debate, and I'd like to support them. So I'm saying, here's what I think this is already 12. A budget that I was present in this Assembly, I used to vote for, I used to be against, but we never made a system that is being created in serious countries, let's say in England that the Commission for Finance and Budget is being led by the opposition and that over the years, all budgetary users are being considered. Why not introduce this system in which, through the prism of the commission, every institution manager at BiH level does not bring, does not propose Budget and together not, bearing in mind that not all colleagues are experts from the economic profession, but also bring advisers to this Parliament, hires people who can be helpful, that each institution is scanned and that it explains whether the institution needs more income, or more resources in the following year. It's unserious, it's an obvious method that I'm now talking about the D.A.'s office whether it's necessary or unnecessary more money. Remember this year that they got out of reserve from the Council of Ministers 700 and a few thousand, that they get where it was hidden in 26 budgets from IPA funds 16 and some million, that they signed the memorandum with the Council of Ministers. It's inconclusive that I'm talking about this, about the obvious method, and someone doesn't come out here and explain that these people really need more resources. We're not talking here anymore about the position of the RS, or this, or that, even though everyone could have written the amendments. These amendments, which have been tabled here on my part, are the minimum of the dignity of this Parliament, which comes in a position to take, without any amendments adopted by Parliament, the Budget that has come from the Council of Ministers for granted. Well, where are the MPs here with their ideas and opportunities to get past party strict disciplines, even if those conclusions that we have all voted here as parliamentarians that you need to do. Get rid of these disciplines and I suggest the conclusion that the Finance and Budget Commission is in charge of organising public hearings with BiH-level managers in 2014 on the structure of their budget, the way of planning and spending and on the results of these reports this House continuously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19350	Ambassador Dragan Vrankić has not proposed any amendments, but he also wants to discuss the proposed amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19351	But that's why the HDZ Club proposed an amendment and I think it's right to insist on it, because some colleagues either forget or do not realize that Mostar is in Herzegovina and that this country is called BiH. So the same treatment must be for everyone. I will give up part of the discussion with one finding, fact and I will invite my colleagues to support all of this budget for one simple reason why the adopted Budget is the best Budget. This Budget, and as its draft budget document by 3 years, is only 2% different this year from the previous year, and given that the Council of Ministers has operationality, I think we could adopt it at a three-year level, and then that they respond to the public needs and needs of all institutions and to meet the needs of the Framework proposed. And as for the position and opposition, that is why I call on all of us to vote in favour of this budget. There's no more serious party that's anywhere or position or opposition. So, here I wouldn't further challenge the replicas, my suggestion is to adopt this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19352	Ambassador Darko Babalj has not proposed any amendments but has discussed the proposed amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19353	Here, on behalf of the SDS Club, let's say we won't support this Budget. And as for what you are constantly potential, Mr. Chairman, here's your political party proposed an amendment on behalf of the SDS, so there's no need for that. Let me tell Mr. Živković, when you said this 27,000, at one point I thought it was true. However, the reason why I thought it was true, because I received 27 three of these amendments, these, these, I no longer knew, one Commission, the other Commission, and then today this last one with the number of protocols was 30.12.2013, so this is today, Amendment number VII says - in Article 3 of the Bill on Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2014 in individual table 6, the BiH Court of Justice is increasing the total budget by 172,000 and not... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-1.u19354	Thank you, Ambassador Babalj. I'm closing the debate. The vote is in 10 minutes. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please take your seats. kolega Sokolović, if we can approach the vote. So we approach the vote on amendments in the plenary phase. First we will vote on the amandman of Niko Lozančić, MP for Niko Lozančić. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. Clearly, there are neither the general nor the entity majority here. 7 for, 30 against, 2 abstentions. This amendment has not been accepted. We are now voting on amendments from MP Milorad Živković. It's about five amendments. We vote in the package. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. 16 for, 18 against, 4 abstentions. There's no need for a general majority. These amendments have not been accepted. We move to a vote on amendments from the SDA Club of MPs, so 9 amendments submitted on 16 December and 1 amendment delivered on 30.12. We also vote in the package. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that these amendments have neither received the general nor the entity majority. 8 for, 27 against, 3 abstentions. We are now moving to vote on the amendments of MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. It's about two amendments. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that these two amendments have not been supported. 5 for, 30 against, 3 abstentions. 28 Now we are voting on the proposal of the conclusion of Ambassador Milorad Živkovć, who was delivered to you, there is no need to read it. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. 26 for, 7 against. So I realize that here we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that this conclusion of MP Milorad Živković has been accepted. We are now voting on the draft law in a second reading with the amendments contained in the Commission Report. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary general majority and the necessary entity majority. 23 for, 14 against, 1 abstention. The House of Representatives adopted the Budget of the BiH institution for 2014. Congratulations to the House of Representatives that the second time since the Dayton Peace Agreement was adopted today before the new year. I'm closing the 60th session of the House of Representatives, and the next one starts in 30 minutes. Session completed at 14:15 p.m.
