ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14058	I ask my distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs to take their seats and to place cards, as well as respected ministers from the Council of Ministers to take their seats, i.e. the Honorable Minister and Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 44th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies, who regularly follow the work of our House, and representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present and guests. And before we move to the agenda of this session today, I would like to send a card on my personal behalf and I hope on behalf of this Parliament. As you know for sure, the new Pope Horhe Mario Bergoljo, who took for himself the name Franjo I.. I vjerovati I can say in your name that we are looking forward to this election as I am firmly convinced that BiH has received a new friend who will continue its policy of understanding, cooperation and support for the Holy See towards BiH. I give my sincere congratulations to the new Pope Franja i to the election as well as the Cardinal Assembly who chose him. The absence was justified by MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. According to the service's information, there are 38 representatives present, and I find that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As regards changes to the session agenda, I would like to mention the following: point 4. Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight in the field of defence and security of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint Defence and Security Commission for BiH,Law No: 01,02-02-1-48/12 of 29.11.2012. (second reading) has been reformed in accordance with Article 111(6) of the Rules of Procedure because the Joint Defence and Security Commission of BiH has for the second time requested an extension of the deadline for the delivery of the report. Last session of the College as the deadline was set on 13.03.2013. The previous agenda has been downloaded: Point 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Proposal Procedure before the Court of Justice of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-8/13 of 05.02.2013. 2 (second reading) at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission which decided to hold a public debate on the Proposal for a Law. The deadline for the submission of the report shall be extended until 17.04.2013. Point 14. Consideration of the initiative of MP Šemsudin Mehmedović from the 42nd session of the House of Representatives, held on 14.02.2013, which reads as follows: ‘On the basis of Article 8. I urge the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives to discuss obstacles and opportunities for investment in BiH, and to prepare the Council of Ministers for the debate", at the request of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. She's a colleague of Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14059	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers. Let me just say that just a few words about point 4, which could help with the statement itself. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 101(2) of the House of Representatives, he submitted the proposal for a bill to the Council of Ministers – the Directorate for European Integration for the purpose of giving an opinion. I must say that the Ministry of Security, past the minister's consent and without the minister's presence, made an opinion which the minister later challenged, and this opinion which was so disputed went even to the Council of Ministers. And when we wanted to see why all this happened and how it all happened then we received information that the new Security Ministry proposal yesterday would be held at the Council of Ministers meeting, which happened, and a positive opinion was given with two remarks which, for which the Ministry of Security requires to be introduced into the law, requiring further extension of the deadline for the amendment phase to change that. So that is the only reason why the Joint Defence and Security Commission has asked for this deadline to be extended so that these two amendments, requested by the Security Minister, or the Ministry of Security, could be taken into account. So I ask you to bear in mind that when you declare yourself on setting a new deadline for submitting a report on this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14060	I thank the distinguished representative Dušanka Majkić for this clarification. Dear Representative Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14061	The SDS MPs' club proposes to include a new agenda item – Ad hoc appointment committee for the implementation of the appointment process of the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications. In effect, before the end of December, a Communication Act was entered into force, which provided for the Council of Ministers to propose to this Parliamentary Assembly within 15 days to a commission to choose the Board of Regulatory Agency. Since you all know that the Regulatory Agency has been in a blockade for years, without the ability to function and elect our leadership, we believe that it is necessary 3 to finally approach those legal provisions and warn the Council of Ministers that it has not fulfilled its legal obligation. We therefore propose that this item of the agenda be included under regular number 13 in order to leave enough time during the day to the Council of Ministers to submit proposals for the appointment of a commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14062	I thank the distinguished representative Mladen Bosić. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14063	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Two sessions ago, I submitted an initiative to include the agenda item on my resolution in the Commission for the collection and spending of donations, because I really don't see any further purpose of being a member of that commission that practically doesn't work and I don't want my name to be withdrawn by the press, because it's obvious that no one is showing any interest in continuing this work. And this is already taking place before the previous and last term of office calls for this Parliament. So here, if today you think, in the College, that it doesn't need to be included, it doesn't matter in which order, whether 15 or 14, I should at least renew the initiative that on the next one, if you estimate it, you must put it on the next session. But I think it's a formal thing, that you could still put it today, so it depends on you, on your colleagues, as you plead. And I even suggested to you in this initiative that you plead, at the enlarged college, that this commission should definitely be abolished, because it's obvious that no one is interested in continuing this work because no one is interested in it anymore, and I already said I don't want my name to be withdrawn in the media. And the conclusion or suggestion was, who was the bailiff. Our institutions in charge of the control and operation of legality do not show any interest, it is both the SIPA and the Prosecutor's Office and all other institutions, so why should I insist only when no one else is interested. Well, here, I'll leave you in the College if today you don't think it should be included that you have, and I'm renewing that initiative, at least for the next session. But I think it's a formal thing and it can be included in today's session, since we don't even have a very large agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14064	I thank the esteemed representative Slavko Jovičić. We had this matter on our College, and the conclusion is that it is suggested, that it requires a respected representative to resign in writing so that we can include it officially on the agenda. So here's what you might have sent in the meantime, if you didn't, and I'd ask you to do it, and then we'll definitely put it right on the next session. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14065	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests. 4 It is somewhat unusual for the parliamentary initiative to be removed from the agenda at the request of the Commission for Economic Reform and Development. It would be at least correct if I had been given an explanation which is why, which are the reasons, because in BiH we do not seem to have more or less things to do than to see what are the obstacles to investing in BiH and that we see a possible chance of employment, because every day is clearly a smaller number of those who are fortunate to have a job in BiH. That's why I think it would be correct for you to take the attorney's initiative off the line with reason. So I'd like, like, here's the applicant of this initiative that I have any reason why it was done, or that's why it was taken off the agenda of this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14066	I thank the esteemed representative Mehmedović. According to my opinion, therefore, the committee responsible could not meet on this initiative so that they could be included in the agenda procedurally. But I'm sure we won't go deaf on this initiative. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14067	Very briefly one small comment on the SDS MEPs' proposal to include this item of the agenda today on the establishment of the Ad hoc selection commission of the Board of Regulatory Agency. I understand the initiative and the reasons of the promoter. And of course the arguments he made stand, but was there no other way. As far as I know, this Council of Ministers is the result of the election of this parliamentary majority whose member is SDS. So, how does this power work here, that is, this parliamentary majority indeed, because you are now putting Parliament in a position to, as they say, return-to-date something to wait, a task point, so the Council of Ministers delivers or does not deliver. Come on, people, sit down and figure out if you can function or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14068	Thank you. No more reports. We have...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14069	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14070	I'd be begging MPs anyway to check in on time. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14071	Dear Chairman, deputies, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, others present, I welcome you all. 5 An apology from the chairman, yes, I am a little late with the application and thank you for your tolerance. As far as this agenda initiative is concerned, there is nothing disputed, just before that we are interested as a club, have we conducted this procedure properly, do we have that initiative? If we need to take a 10-minute break just to satisfy that form so we can know what we're pleading on. Well, if there's only an explanation in that direction, and as far as the initiative is concerned, it's not controversial.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14072	I thank the esteemed representative Saša Magazinović. So here I want to inform the House that this initiative has come in a procedural manner and there is a written proposal in front of me. The addition of the agenda is required on the basis of Article 65 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (“the Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 33/06, 41/06, 81/06, 91/06, 97/06, 87/09 and 28/12). So, we propose to add the agenda of the 44th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives with point 13 which reads: The appointment of the Ad hoc Commission for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications. There's an explanation behind that. Therefore, the esteemed representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14073	On behalf of the SDP Club, I'm asking for a five-minute break until this initiative is delivered to us, and then we'll approach the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14074	At the request of the SDP Club, I'm giving a five-minute break. [[PAUZA]] I ask my distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs to take their seats and media representatives to take their seats as well. The SDP advocates' club has requested a five-minute break, so if there is a need for a club president to show off, go ahead. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14076	Thank you, Chairman. So, the moment we asked for a break, we absolutely didn't have an initiative or a material that was following it. At this point, we are ready to plead on this initiative. I don't think there's any reason anyone doesn't support it, with the same approach we expect 6 of all other clubs if eventually SDP Club or any other club in any of the next sessions equally wants to put on the agenda not to implement any law or some deadlines and laws identically... So we're gonna back this up, it's not gonna be a big deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14077	I thank the esteemed representative Saša Magazinović. I am putting forward a statement on the proposal of the distinguished representative Mladen Bosić to include, as the 13th item of the agenda, the appointment of the Ad hoc Commission for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that, with 33 votes in favour of, 4 votes against, 1 abstention, with enough entity majority, we adopted this proposal so that the 13th item of the agenda reads as it was in the motion for a vote, so the appointment of the Ad hoc Commission for the implementation of the appointment procedure of the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications. I find that the 44th session of the House has the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 43rd session of the House of Representatives; 2. Representative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New issues of representation; 3. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on Amendments and Representatives Darko Babalj's proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-147/12 of 28.11.2012; 4. Declaration on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the report on the Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight in the field of defence and security of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint Defence and Security Commission of BiH (Law No: 01,02-02-1-48/12 of 29.11.2012) or suspending the legislative procedure; 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Procedure – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-7/13 of 30.01.2013. (second reading); 6. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-4/13 of 15.01.2013. (law in first reading); 7. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Single Parent Number – Proposer: Representatives Saša Magazinović, Senad Šepić, Mirsad Đugum, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović and Beriz Belkić, Law No: 01-02-1-13/13 of 27.02.2013. (first reading); 7 8. Report on the functioning of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011, document of the BiH Council of Ministers, issue: 01,02-47-238/13 of 18.02.2013; 9. Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2012 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2013, material number: 01,02-50-19-216/13 and 01,02-50-19-216-1/13 of 12.02.2013; 10. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2012, material number: 01,02-50-19-249/13 of 21.02.2013; 11. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2012, material number: 01,02-50-19-262/13 of 22.02.2013; 12. Report by the Committee of the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Mr Senad Šepić on the examination of the requests by Saša Magazinović, Senad Šepić, Mirsad Đugum, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović and Beriz Belkić for the examination of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Single Parent Number by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. The Rules of Procedure, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and submit to the parliamentary procedure amendments to the laws which exclusively treat the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH" within 30 days at the latest; 13. The appointment of the Ad hoc committee for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications – Proposers: representatives of the SDS Club, material number: 01-29-148/13 of 14.03.2013. We're going over the agenda. First point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 43rd session of the House of Representatives You've won the 43rd session record. Any objections? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. MPs' questions a) Comments to the answers received by the Council of Ministers to this day's session answered the questions asked by MPs: Borislav Bojić of the Council of Ministers, on the question asked at 40. The meeting, from the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Protection of the Tuzlan Canton, was asked at the 41st session of the House and from the Government of the UN-Sanska County, asked at the 41st session; Beriz Belkić from the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked questions at the 37th and 39th session of BiH, on the issue of the 41st session of the House; Azra Dušanka from the Central Election Commission of BiH and from the Office for the Review of the BiH Act, on the issue of the 41st session of the House; Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović from the Council of Ministers of the House; 8 Milorad Živković from the Council of Ministers of BiH; on the issues of the Council on the 36th and 41st session and on the initiative addressed to the 39th and 40th session of the Council; Petar Kunić on the Jagodić on the issue of Ministers of BiH; on the Council on the 30th and on the issue of the Council on the Council on the issue of the Council on the Council on the Council on the issue of 15th and on the 26th and on the issue. The special joint session of both homes - MPs/legislators ask - the BiH Council of Ministers answers, and complemented by the 35th session of the House; Boško Tomić of the Council of Ministers, asked at the 39th session of the House; Šemsudin Mehmedović of the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked the question at 39. The session, from the Government of RS, was asked at the 41st session and from the Ministry of Interior of Canton of Sarajevo, the Office of the Police, asked at the 41st session of the House; Saša Magazinović of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia, asked questions at the 36th session of the House; Adnan Bašić of the Federal Ministry of Education and Sciences, asked at the 40th session of the House; Anto Domazet of the Central Bank of BiH, asked questions at the 41st session of the House; Lazar Prodanović of the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked questions at the 40th session of the House; Salko Sokolović of the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked questions at the 39th and 42nd session of the House; Aleksandra Pandurević of the Council of Ministers of BiH, at the initiative at the 12th session of the House, adopted at the 20th session of Ministers. Notices on parliamentary issues were received by Zijad Jagodić of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the issue asked at the 42nd session of the House and Emir Kabil of the RS Health Insurance Fund on the issue at the 41st session. Any comments on the answers received? Dear Representative Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14079	Thank you. I got two completed answers, one answer from the Justice Department. I thank you for the fact that at the end of the day, there are already more than 6 months waiting for this updated answer, and this is a question from the Prosecutor's Office that delivered names when it came to the procedures for the admission of foreigners into BiH citizenship and I thought this was public data and that there was no need for it to be secret and I think now everyone will be able to see who it is. It is particularly indicative that some processes have ended in antiquity. They're outdated objects and no processes have been opened, which I think is inadmissible. Second, an updated second answer I got from the Department of Commerce. It's about genetically modified organisms. I am pleased that in reply, it has been said that no food business subject has so far submitted to the Agency a request for placing on the market genetically modified organisms and products, so that our citizens can, according to this, be calm that there are no genetically modified food organisms in BiH, nor in food for, for nine agricultural purposes, used for cattle. But this does not give the possibility that there are no people who have not applied for permission to use this food and that these products exist in BiH products. I am glad that the 2013 Strategy is made that it will be done, but it has been a long time since 2009 when the law was passed, and I have not received confirmation that at least a blind trial was made even though laboratories exist, there are already four who have been licensed, and that they are making one blind rehearsal among the products that people use in BiH and that there really is no genetically modified food in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14080	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14081	Thank you, Chairman. Well, after a year and a half waiting for the Council of Ministers, the answer came. Only here did the honorable Mr. Kutleša make a mistake, stated the answer to the parliamentary question. It is not about the answer to the parliamentary question but about the initiative relating to the implementation of the action plan that needs to be taken to address the problems of BiH citizens who have been employed in businesses in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, I have to realize that this information is incomplete, that the information of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Human Rights is missing here. The information was delivered only by the MIP, and it seems to me that today I feel a little sinful with the former Minister Alkalaj, it seems that he was the only one who was doing something about it. So, nothing, this is likely to be forwarded to the committee responsible and the commission will then, in agreement, as this initiative has been launched with representatives of the citizens' association on whose rights it is, propose some further measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14082	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14083	I just want to say thank you for getting a few answers. And since this is about the extensive material I've just received, I'm not in a position to plead whether I'm satisfied or not, so I'm going to do it at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14084	Thank you. Dear Representative Senad Šepić. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14085	Mr. Chairman. Here, I'll just have one comment on this initiative that referred to information with a proposal for measures to reduce the weight of a school bag in elementary schools. So, I want to say that I am pleased with the answer and I thank the Council of Ministers. So this information also confirmed what I was talking about when I submitted this initiative. And I would like, in line with the follow-up to this topic, to propose today an initiative to assign the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives to the Conference of Ministers of Education and the Council of Ministers of BiH to draw up precise instructions on the necessary material for each school subject in accordance with the recommendations of the World Health Organization, according to which the maximum weight of the school bag with accessories and equipment will be limited to 10% of the child's body weight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14086	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14087	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I've got an answer to your question. The answer is, I am well pleased with the responsibility but I am not satisfied with the activities that are being done. Namely, it was about, my question was the presence of aflatoxin in corn, and I saw that when it came to other countries, a number of directors or responsible people were moved from those positions because they had not intervened in time and because they allowed such products to be placed on the market and found in milk. I'm saying I'm happy with the answer, but I'm unhappy with the actions that are being done. I think they could take advantage of the opportunity, since the aflatoxin wasn't in BiH, we could now make real marketing moves for, thus stimulating domestic production and increasing the total placement of domestic production, as others did. However, I have been distracted by the last sentence in which the Agency says so far, as it has referred to all relevant instances, the institutions, it says – the Agency has so far not received feedback from the competent inspection authorities on the basis of which, in accordance with the competences of the prescribed Food Act, and in cooperation with those competent authorities, it may take further measures from its jurisdiction. It takes someone to poison themselves, to make something happen, and then to take action. I don't like that ineffectiveness, and I don't think it's good, we haven't used enough, I'm saying again, for domestic product propaganda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14088	Thank you. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić. Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14089	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I've got an answer to two of my questions. The truth about the question from the 40th session – How many are receiving the director of state institutions, and their first associates, I received one detailed answer and I thank the secretary-general who is indeed one table display and I can say, I will not comment on the content of the answers and other colleagues have it, for the analysis of this response and the receipt of the director of state institutions. There are receipts here that are greater than both the reception and the MPs and the members of the Council of Ministers themselves, so they will follow through the initiative issue one of my additional questions because I am offered this answer. So I'm completely satisfied with this answer, it's really been examined. As for the other questions concerning – How much is the budget deficit of cantons, I received an answer from only two cantons, from the Posavina Canton and from Canton Central Bosnia. It seems that these smaller cantons, I would say, and by a slightly smaller deficit because they know the volume of their budgets and their collected incomes and expenditures, are a little more up-to-date so they've made an effort to deliver answers, and these larger cantons like Tuzlanski, Sarajevo, Zenica-Doboski, probably have bigger deficits, so they need time to deliver those answers. So I would renew my question and hope to get answers to these questions as well. Otherwise, I have to commend that lately the answers are a little more decadent, a little more precise and a little faster coming. Is this session where MPs ask and the Council of Ministers responds to fruit, but here for now one passing grade can be given, at least on my part, for answers received. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14090	Thank you. Dear Representative Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14091	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I waited because I sent the same inquiry to both the government, the government of the RS and the government of the Federation of BiH. At the previous session, I received a reply from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and here I received an answer from the Government of the Federation, so I will comment on both responses. The problem's in the next one. One famous saying by an even more famous politician at the time can be reduced to an answer seen from both written answers – all by law. You know very well what this is about. Well, we all know by law that the right to open private colleges in BiH, we all know that well. But this question had a crucial view of what academic education is achieved by those who graduate from such universities. I wouldn't use that folk term that says it's wild colleges, where during breaks and bus stops a diploma can be obtained, even though it's also known in public. I simply asked the government, both of them, of their respective ministry for a decadent answer whether they would ever examine the business of such universities and really whether their college diplomas were valid in relation to the old educational institutions that still work 12 in our country, in our country of BiH? Doubtful academic education also cancels these diplomas, and if the wave of such academic educated citizens floods, then it will be imagined over every other degree whether she has given such or similar education. I didn't get that answer. Why hasn't any institutions been organized to check, after so many years of doing those colleges that do nothing like mushrooms after the rain, every village seems to me today to have a college in Bosnia. Why isn't anyone checking it out? Are we going to sacrifice our youth, our children to obtain such an education that will not be worth anything tomorrow? Because today's private employers are going to be checking everyone they hire. They won't hire with such suspicious diplomas. And why give false hopes to young people? I don't know, I'm not happy with the answer, and I'm deeply convinced that even the Bosnian Herzegovina public isn't satisfied with the way these colleges work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14092	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14093	I got three answers, two I won't comment on, one I will. It is about the BiH Law Department's response to the enrollment, i.e. not the recording of state property for BiH's benefit. I express my satisfaction that the answer has been made in legal facts and legal language, the Ombudsman is being served and confirms that it is BiH's property. A little comment on some allegations I disagree with. I agree absolutely that the Constitutional Court's decision is not the basis for the enrollment, but it is another of the greatest possible confirmations of the notor fact because it is state property. However, it is not true that it is necessary to wait for the Law on State Property. Of course, the law is necessary for other matters, but when it comes to booking, it is quite sufficient legal basis, the Agreement on matters of succession, its Aneks ii and Article 1. The BiH Constitution that speaks of the continuity of the BiH state. Perhaps the newly elected Ombudsman does not know that in early 2010, the recording process was started and that 10 items were recorded, of which 3 prospective fixed military facilities and that the process was stopped thanks to Inck, which I am not sure whether it exists at all in this country, but managed to stop a process based on law. I expect the lawyer and his associates to continue to work on the basis of rights and legal arguments and not to mind any political arrangements or misunderstandings. After all, there has been a conclusion by this House of 24.11., which is called upon by the D.A. to continue the enrollment. And another little brief comment. In response to the pravobranilaštvo's response, it says that the Department of Defense has never completed objects of perspective fixed locations before, and I don't even know what number it is anymore, is it 69, is it 63 or has something changed. And so for three years I've been in this business, for three years, I've been bewildered by each other, by one, by the public, by the fact that I'm not telling a lie. So, are these people aware of how important these issues are for this country? I will, of course, ask the MP's question to the defence ministry again to answer, but I thank you once again for your response to the BiH Defence Office. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14094	I thank the esteemed representative, Beriz Belkić. And before you know it, here's the other MPs I just want to point out that according to the Rules of Procedure, the comments last two minutes and the questions three. Dear Representative Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14095	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question was about this – What is the amount and what is the trend in moving the value of the blockades on the accounts of BiH companies that are covered by the reports of the Central Bank of BiH? I thank the response given by the Central Bank, which says they have no data on the value of the blockades. So I find it inadmissible that the information system on basic economic aggregates contains not the value of blocks but only the number of blocked accounts and the number of blocked business organisations. So, with an assessment, whether the correct answer is given, I am also giving the initiative to improve this way, or the reporting system, and to include data on the value of the blockades and I will ask the Central Bank to provide through one small pilot of research these necessary data, because no measure of economic policy can be based solely on this data provided by the current reporting system by the Central Bank. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14096	Thank you. Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14097	Mr. Chairman. I have received an answer to my parliamentary question and I would first of all like to thank the Council of Ministers for the detailed response that concerns, therefore, the question of obtaining the right to retire members of the Armed Forces, the SIPA and the BiH Border Police. The answer is quite detailed, unfortunately we have not come up with a solution to this problem. I believe that in BiH, we will face discrimination against members of these agencies, depending on where they live and depending on how they will obtain pension conditions. We have an absurd situation that the Law on Police Officers, the Law on Members of the Agency for Investigation and Protection, the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces of BiH foresees that by the end of the 40 years of the increased internship due to the specificity of the work it does, and on the other hand, entity laws have provided that someone is entitled to retire from 40 years of retirement and at least in this year 56 years, the following year will be 57 or next year 58. What does that mean now? It's absurd that this isn't settled. The possibility of solving this issue can be done by amending these laws on agencies that I have said, that either at the very end of so many years and so many years of age, which is not possible now. 14 And the second question, that entity laws on pension and disability insurance define that the right to obtain pensions will be given to those who have completed 40 years of employment independently of years of age. Otherwise, we will have a situation where the current different definition of this problem that the members of these agencies will, by signing a contract or by learning about their contribution to pension insurance, go to the Brcko District or the Federation, to Republika Srpska, say no – I do not want to report my place of residence here unless we even it out. And how someone who is now 53 years old is going to live the next three or four or five years, because they're going to move in a year if we don't solve this. I believe that coordination is needed between the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice, Civil Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the entity's competent ministries of martial arts, i.e. for the work and martial arts and PIO funds to be dealt with in a unique manner in BiH, so that these people, after so many years, are not in a position to find themselves on the streets in fact conditioned retirement. Furthermore, why the law did not predict that it would make pensions less than that percentage until it reached a certain number of years of age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14098	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14099	I would like to thank the Council of Ministers for their response, although not to the parliamentary question, but to the initiative to provide the Parliamentary Assembly with information on the state of affairs related to the digitalisation process. Given that it is already late in the realization of certain deadlines set by BiH in this process, this information, the data contained in it, allows for a good overview of things and possibly taking appropriate measures to speed up the whole thing a little, because delay in terms of defaulting on commitments and deadlines can have really dramatic consequences for BiH. Based on this data that has been forwarded, and on which I thank again, I will deepen this mini parliamentary investigation and I will ask some additional parliamentary questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14100	Thank you. Honorable representative Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14101	Dear President, honourable MPs. I asked a question at one of the sessions to get me lists of cytostatics with individual prices and the total amount for 2012 as well as the number of patients in the Federation and the RS that were subject to the programme of these two institutions. The reason for the issue was the lack of medicines, especially cytostatics in the Federation of BiH in the 11th and 12th months of last year. The issue was addressed to the Institute of Health Insurance and Reassurance of the Federation of BiH and the 15 RS Health Insurance Fund. I must say that I am pleased with the response of the Health Insurance and Resecure Office of the Federation of BiH because it has responded exhaustively to the number of patients, to the unit price and amount of cytostatics purchased last year. I am not satisfied with the notice from the RS Health Insurance Fund because they have referred to me as the supervision of the operation of this Fund belongs to the resolution ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Health and Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. I wasn't interested in surveillance, I wasn't interested in business, I was only interested in... the number of patients who were subjected to a certain procedure and the amount of cytostatics that were purchased. Why did I set this up? There are indications that prices are not equal in the RS and the Federation. There are also indications that precisely because of these unregulated relations, there has been a major shortage in the Federation of BiH. That's why I'm going to have to rephrase my question and refer it to probably the RS Ministry who has control over all these flows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14102	Thank you. Dear Representative Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14103	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to comment on one answer, one of the answers I got, and these other two answers I'm going to do when they're completed by other levels of government, I'm going to make a total comment when I get a natural response because I expect to get an answer from other levels of government, because one number of governments have provided the answers I asked for. And now I'd like to pay attention to only one question I asked the Ministry of Finance, and this is a matter that concerns the realization of a project to rebuild the city's waterway and sewerage in the Municipality of Kostanica. The truth has been answered by the Ministry that this is about the municipalities of Dervent, Bihać, Kostanica and Kakanj, but what is interesting is that from this project a consulting house which has been engaged, among other things, has acquired several field vehicles, caravans and so on. And then the Ministry, imagine, instead of having these very small municipalities where these projects were done, these field vehicles gave way to these municipalities where new projects were carried out, the Ministry took those vehicles away. I don't know what needs, I don't think some field work is going to work and perform the Ministry of Finance, since it's exclusively about field vehicles. I don't see any point in having the Ministry of Finance, along with a series of vehicles that it has, take from these small municipalities and these field vehicles that are intended for water and sewerage. Here, my comment is also an appeal to the Ministry of Finance that field vehicles in the Ministry of Finance, since they don't need boots and terrain, to deliver to those municipalities where the water and sewerage were made. Well, I once again appeal to the Ministry of Finance to reconsider this request from these municipalities, you have there the intervention of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, these municipalities, the government of the Federation, the canton, where these projects were carried out. I don't see any reason for the Ministry to keep those vehicles to themselves. Naoko, it's completely irrelevant for the Ministry, and these small municipalities can benefit. It won't be safe for the Ministry of Finance to fail that two field vehicles will assign 16 to the municipalities where these projects were carried out. I hope that my appeal to the Ministry of Finance will be appreciated and I will watch that this answer again, if I have to and write this appeal to our gentlemen at the Ministry of Finance to do this all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14104	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14105	Thank you, Chairman. I got the answer to one initiative and one question. In fact, the issue concerns the donation of funds to NGOs. I'm basically happy, but from that explanation, I didn't realize that someone was controlling the spending of those funds, which is important. The funds are shared but there must be control of whether these funds are used for purpose purposes. And secondly, I gave the initiative to pass the Public Procurement Act as soon as possible. I received a reply from the Council of Ministers that the Council of Ministers in 2510.2012, i.e. that this Law was submitted to the Council of Ministers in 25.10.2012 for consideration and adoption. If there is anything more important, important, so to speak, for BiH as a whole and for its entities, then the adoption of the Public Procurement Act is. We hear almost daily that there are huge funds being spent, in fact, the theft of state capital is being carried out hundreds and hundreds of millions. I think that this is a priority, it should be a priority of the Council of Ministers and to deal with this Law and to really pass a rational law that will prevent so far the malversions that are present in that domain. I think we should also use suggestions from NGOs. These days, the organization, I think it's called the "Tender" Civil Association, has given its draft and very critical expressions of its critical reflections under the draft of the Council of Ministers' Law. And what does it matter here? I have proposed before to pass the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Ministers and other government officials, of course, which are the employers. As for this law and for this law, it should be the accompanying law to amend the law on criminal, criminal law and criminal proceedings. So far, no criminal acts have been qualified to treat this area. We can pass hundreds and hundreds of laws if the sanctions are not provided because we won't get any judgments from the court, and the prosecution has no grounds to prosecute such cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14106	Thank you. Dear representative Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14107	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 17 I received answers to three questions I asked at the previous sessions. Two questions, two answers concern our preparation of our export resources after Croatia becomes a member of the EU, and what are the conditions, and whether they are met when it comes to the preparation of laboratory facilities in relation to this issue. The answers I've received are quite correct and very good and I'd like to introduce you to just one of the facts. We know we have since November, since the end of November last year our accreditation body and it's BATA. However, we do not have many laboratories that are prepared for this activity, accredited laboratories in which the tests should be conducted. We barely have three accredited labs and four more applications for accreditation are listed. Since this is a pretty long process, they'll be waiting for it. However, we should bear in mind here that there is no legal obligation to accreditation of the laoratorium for those who have such resources and that there are no accredited inspection bodies that have accreditation with BATA from the food sector, so this is a question that should be taken into account more by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, or any relevant agencies dealing with this problem. This is what I wanted to stress especially because this is now a matter of interest both to the public and especially to those interested in food exports to the Republic of Croatia. The answer I received to my third question in the area from which I often ask a question is higher education. I received a very large response from which all the inability of the BiH state institutions to regulate the situation in one area such as higher education that has long-term and painful consequences for the whole Bosnian-Herzegovina society regardless of where this law was implemented. Namely, I asked the Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14108	Time
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14109	And I got a response from the competent High Education and Quality Insurance Agency. And just one fact to point out since my time is running out,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14110	It's been up a long time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14111	It has expired, and I have to state one fact, so something that was to be done by August 2011 has been done by three public universities, so they applied for accreditation and six private universities. This in itself speaks of the fact that the situation in the implementation of the Framework Law on Higher Education is not good. The Council of Ministers has made recommendations, but given the information it has, this has been left to do whatever it wants, whenever it wants, whatever it wants. Thank you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14112	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14113	Here I have asked a few questions referred to the addresses of several subjects. So I got answers from several subjects, but not from all of them. Here, I'll try to retain the right to comment on the answers when I get all the subjects, so we have a complete picture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14114	So we conclude point (a) Comments on the answers received. Moving to C) New Agents' Issues Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14116	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. One perhaps slightly unusual question, if this is true then this could be a serious problem, goes to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and reads – which is why the BiH Council of Ministers held an opinion on the authentic interpretation of the provisions of the BiH Election Law No: 05-02-3-229/13 of 26.02.2013, which was adopted in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on 27.03.2013, sent only to the House of Peoples and not to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. It is the opinion of the BiH Council of Ministers at the request of an authentic interpretation of the provisions of the BiH Election Law submitted by the City Council of Mostar in 13.12.2012. I refer the question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I've been checking through the service, and this is an amazing thing to me that the Council of Ministers' report, the Opinion only arrives at the House of Peoples without reaching the House of Representatives and I ask that I be given an answer. If it's a mistake to explain it's a mistake, but if it's something else, then I'm very worried. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14117	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14118	Thank you, Chairman. 19 I have one initiative addressed to the Ministry of Security and to the Council of Ministers, which is to bring the Parliamentary Assembly in accordance with the emergency procedure of delivering the draft Law amending the Law on Police Officers to which Article 119(3) will be brought into line with the entity laws of the PIO. Namely, what is it? According to the Law on Police Officers, the work of a police officer is prescribed to take place when he is 65 years of age and legally prescribed retirement internship or 40 years of internship. And this was not disputed until a new Law on PIO was adopted in the RS, so we are now in a situation where police officers after 40 years of working hours, according to the Law on Police Officers, stop working and are unable to be introduced into pension law in the RS and wait from one to six years. So here's, I mean, I don't know what the state of the Federation is, if there's been any changes, I think this member of the law just needs to be brought into line with the entity laws on PIO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14119	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14120	I have two short questions. First, was the Director of the Intelligence Agency – Has Goran Zubac’s face been subject to security checks in accordance with the procedure for issuing a clearance for access to classified classified information? And, of course, Minister of Security – Please provide me with the number and date of the authorisation for access to a certain degree of secrecy for the person Goran Zubac if the person in question was subject to security checks and if, and if there were no interference with issuing the same? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14121	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14122	Thank you. My question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which refers to a document called "Safeguard policy". So, the question is: Is there at this point or is the Interresor Working Group for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the BiH Presidency Document called "Safe Policy BiH", a 2006 document established by the Council of Ministers? Will the new or innovative "Safeguard BiH" document be completed? In my explanation, the Council of Ministers at its 26th session in 2007 adopted a Decision on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to monitor the implementation of the "Safe Policy of BiH" document and that the task of the working group was to inspect among other things the existing 20 "Safe policy" document and to propose to the BiH Council of Ministers for its amendments. It is evident that the document, which dates back to 2006, has become obsolete, overcome and completely irrelevant, and does not touch key security challenges on the 21st century threshold. Accordingly, I ask that this question be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14123	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14124	Two short questions to the Secretary of Defense. My oral and written questions I have been asking in the last two, three years from your ministry have been constantly answered by the Ministry that the necessary documentation has been provided for the recording of 69 or 63 locations immovable and for the Armed Forces of Perspective Property. In response to the Ombudsman's reply from today, from 1403 to my parliamentary question, the D.A. has claimed that it does not have documents on the basis of which it could register the locations mentioned. I'm asking the Ministry to answer who's cheating on the public and who's telling the truth? The second question is for the Director of the Police Coordination Directorate – at what stage is the implementation of the Agreement establishing an electronic data exchange system from police authorities’ records and prosecutors, if the Agreement is not fully implemented and if the system is not established, which entities have not fulfilled their obligations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14125	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14126	The quest to determine the current position, problems and perspectives related to the implementation of the Digitalisation Project in BiH, based on a response to the parliamentary initiative, which I received from the Council of Ministers, raises the issue of the BiH Appeals Office. The question is – What reasons have forced you to exceed eight times the deadline for resolving complaints defined by the Rules of Procedure for the Second International tender for the public procurement of digital links and transmitters published by the Committee of the Forum on Digital Earth Television in BiH? I also have one more question for the Council of Ministers. The question is – What international agreements, agreements or conventions have so far been adopted by BiH, and are all those who have been accepted and require ratification and ratification? I limit the issue to documents beyond the regional framework, i.e. having a European or wider dimension. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14127	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three initiatives and one question. An initiative for the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH and the Council of Ministers, which I urge to establish offices or offices for accreditation and certification as soon as possible to implement the Electronic Signature Act accordingly, which would significantly improve traffic in BiH. An initiative for the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Council of Ministers, which I urge BiH's diplomatic and consular representations to increase the budget from BiH's budget reserves, and for the material costs related to the maintenance of facilities and representation of them. This increase would put a minimal burden on the budget, but also significantly improve the work of these representative offices, which should be our interest and purpose for all of us. Parliamentary Question for the Council of Ministers – What does it look like to develop a national programme of integration and reviving existing coordination mechanisms within the institutions of the system, based on mechanisms already defined in Chapter V of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement? And an initiative for the Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Federation of BiH, which I initiate the launch of the most extensive works on the reconstruction of road infrastructure, railway, water, etc. with the selection of the most favourable forms of funding available to the Federation of BiH government and this ministry. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14129	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14130	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome my colleagues, welcome everyone in the O.R. I've got one parliamentary question, a little unusually maybe an unusual one, but because of a group of ordinary, maybe unusual mortals, I'd like to ask this question. On the territory of the town of Bihaća and on the former territory of the municipality of Drvar is the village of Trubar. From Dayton in '95. until half last year, exactly 17 years, none of the infrastructure facilities and works were done in that village. Half last year, high voltage was done and some low voltage. It's a shame to make excuses as some tenders for 18 years. I ask the city of Bihac, Canton I, the government of the Federation and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees at the Council of Ministers – When will this village finally get electricity, at least electricity? 22 I am still asking the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees – Do they have records of similar places, i.e. Villages that still don't have electricity and have returnees? I want to explain this question a little bit. I was playing a game in that village where, fortunately, they had their own water line, so that's the only part of the infrastructure that works, which was made by Austro-Hungarian while she was in these areas, fortunately they have water. But that village, and I believe many other villages, have no winter service to clear their way, they don't have a regular road maintenance service, in these villages it mostly snows big and these people are absolutely blocked for months, isolated from the world. These villages do not know practically that today is the House of Representatives, to hold its session. They don't know what time tomorrow will be, they definitely don't know anything. If war began, Bog did not give, since their paths were still uncleaned from the snow, they would find out maybe in about 10 or 15 days, Bog knows for how long, so they're definitely cut off from the world. Especially in that area and on that ground, separating the ten-ten cantons, that village belonged to a Drava, now belongs to Bihać, or belongs to no one, is neither Imperial nor Spahian, no one enters it, sometimes passing a vehicle of the State Border Service, because it is located at the border with the Republic of Croatia. So, definitely, there's 18 years, probably none of us here, thank Bog, doesn't know what it's like to winter when the night falls at four o'clock, that's at 4:00, and tomorrow morning morning at 7:00, and probably none of us here and doesn't know what it's like to be there in the summer when it's plus 30 or 40, and there's no fridge to save any food. And I purposely wanted to ask this question and to draw attention to all of us that there are still such places, such villages where there are definitely waiting for the death of someone on the side or someone from the village, or that someone is driving, so that people get together at that funeral, means that they are seen or someone from the village to die, and then they get together again. So there's only life there when death comes for someone. So I am definitely eager to wait for this answer, to see how many such villages there are on BiH territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14131	Thank you. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14132	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I have a few short questions, I don't want some big explanation for the weather. The issue is raised by the Minister of Foreign Affairs – What about the Law on Foreign Affairs, whether it is in the process and when it will be? Another question I already have part of the answer, but I need it because of the analysis that will come from these two issues – How many are the receipts of the directors of public enterprises, agencies, BiH institutions appointed by the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH? It's a matter of the Council of Ministers. Entities governments – How many are receiving directors of public enterprises, agencies, institutions of the Federation of BiH appointed by the Federal Government and the Federal Parliament? The fourth question – How many are the receipts of directors of public enterprises, agencies, institutions appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia? 23 And the fifth question relating to the Brcko District – How many are the receipts of directors of public enterprises, agencies, institutions appointed by the Brcko District Government and the Brcko District Assembly? That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14133	That's five questions for five sessions, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14134	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14135	Thank you. Dear colleague Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14136	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I'm renewing an initiative I sent to the Council of Ministers on 19.04 last year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I direct the Rules of Procedure of our House of Representatives, i.e. I am renewing an initiative addressed to the Council of Ministers at the 26th session of the House. The initiative is – I urge the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare amendments and supplement the Export Credit Agency Act, so IGA, in order to empower IGA to approve export contracts on behalf of and on behalf of the BiH State. Explanation of the initiative: IGA is significantly limited in its work, which is: providing guarantees, providing insurance services and providing factoring services, so to service Bosnian Herzegovina companies for two reasons. The first thing that does not have a sufficient credit fund, and the second problem is that although IGA, although it is a state agency, cannot appear on behalf of and on behalf of the state of BiH, it will be guaranteed to our exporters. This significantly accumulates the guarantee process, i.e. foreign partners have less faith in the Agency's guarantees behind which it does not stand as a guarantee of the state. Therefore, only one article would significantly increase IGA ratings in international frameworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14137	Thank you. Question, dear colleague Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14138	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. 24 I have a few questions, I'll try to be quick. Question for the Council of Ministers and the Fiscal Council – What is the current deficit for 2012, the accumulated deficit from earlier years, and what is the total on 31.12.2012? What is the amount of executive court rulings pending payment? This information should be provided individually for all levels of government from municipalities to state. Reason: I have been working these days to analyse the stand-by arrangements and policies we have committed to implement. I tried to get some data, it's absolutely, absolutely impossible. We're in one big darkness when it comes to this problem, and I think the fiscal council is the one that needs to find a way to get to this data. The second question concerns the Federal Ministry of Finance – When will you launch an initiative for a fairer distribution of income at Federation level? Reason: Out of the total budget for the Federation that amounted to cca 2 billion for 2012, only 15% is set aside for salaries and material costs. That 85% goes to grants, current transfers, capital acquisitions and donations. When it comes to counties and cantons, the situation is reversed, 80% are wages and material costs, and 20% are all that. And when we look at constitutional jurisdiction, then we see that funding obligations are significantly higher at cantonal level than they are at federal level. And in this I see an explanation for the frequent protests in front of the Federation government, and the other night I watched a TV dialogue where officials of the Federation of Minority argue who will take points for themselves to insert or put into the Law on the defendants of minors or people who were under 18 at the time of the war. So I say to them, "Let them secure their jobs and make their distribution, quality and proper distribution of their incomes, so that all may have a satisfactory means." Same question for the Federal Ministry of Finance. Reason – Why do the income allocation coefficients for three counties: Posavska, Herzegovako-Neretvanska and West Herzegovina fall from 2006 to 2012, and we know that the distribution criteria have not changed? And the question is, I haven't exceeded my time, same for the Council of Ministers, the Federal Ministry of Environment, the European Commission. It is about the implementation of the NATURA 2000 Support Project through the implementation of the Birds and Habitats Directive in BiH, the value of the project billion and 420, million and 429 million(?) The euro. The question concerns – How is it possible that no talks with constitutional, competent county institutions, institutions from Herzegovina and other areas dealing with protected parts of nature and not even with representatives of NGOs from this part of BiH, which deal with the burning problem of the Neretva and Trebišnica rivers? How is it possible that on the list of experts to work on this important project there are no representatives from Herzegovina, Mostar, University of Mostar, without saying that there is no one, when I look at the national structure, in the order of the Croatian people? We're not that illiterate. And I think this practice has to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14139	I suggest that those with more questions explain one question and the rest in writing. 25 A new question, honourable Ambassador Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14140	I take it back, I'll take it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14141	Thank you. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14142	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer my question to the Ministry of Justice and ask the Ministry to provide me with information on NGOs registered under the Law on Associations and Foundations, which are operating in BiH, and I immediately distinguish it from NGOs, hence domestic BiH, which operate in BiH and, of course, abroad. Reason: I will not defend anyone, nor MPs, nor politicians, but this has gone too far. A press conference for this organization, those NGOs, let the Ministry deliver it to me once so I can see who I'm talking to and I won't respond to such shows. And then he says, "You are a public figure, an apostle; you are a duty; you are required to come." Who do I talk to when I don't know what an NGO is, who founded, who funded, what do they do? Even you fellow travellers, every 200 meters of billboard by some NGO, that top counter every second that throws out as much as we spend, and I don't have the opportunity to organise a press conference, because no one's coming, there's a search for NGOs. In this case, BHT and Public Service BHT1 are now the most important. Every night, five representatives, four representatives of NGOs and bring us in and throw us in here like from the sky, and we don't know who we're talking to, or what the subject is, or what they're going to do, but they're going to bring us, of course, to make fun of us and attack. I'm not going to explain here what NGOs are and I can't get along with them, but they're going to get space. But I have to tell the Centre of Civil Initiatives, which I am giving the highest support to, a press conference once in Banja Luka, once in Sarajevo, once here, once there. ... and told them a hundred times, and I think 15 officially, which compares Croatia and Serbia with BiH. Croatia and Serbia are one-national states, they don't have 10 cantons, they don't have Brcko District, they don't have two entities, they don't have three people, they don't have Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci, they don't have this, they don't have that. And then he comes and says - 15% realized the law they in Parliament. These journalists can't wait, and some write, 7,000 MPs' salaries, do nothing, just confuse the people. Give me one chance to see who I'm talking to on the show or at some conference and tell them -- wait for the people, what you're doing. This isn't an attack on my friend Čavar, but they're really bored too. They got tired of Bog and the people, they just show up – the Council of Ministers realized 4%, Parliament 6%, they do nothing, the unemployed are the biggest, they receive salaries. I will ask you and I, when I receive information, who is financing you, how much pay, what do you do? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14143	Thank you. 26 Dear Ambassador Anto Domazet, a new question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14144	I have a parliamentary initiative for the BiH Council of Ministers to ask the BiH Central Bank for a system of information on the blocking of companies' accounts with banks in BiH to supplement data on the value of these blockades per bank in BiH. In this respect, BiH's Central Bank should be asked to obtain data on the value of the blockades through a survey of commercial banks compared to data on the number of blocked accounts and the number of blocked companies in BiH. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14145	Thank you. Dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14146	Dear chairman, colleagues and colleagues, guests. In accordance with the Law on Veterinary Use of BiH (“The Official Messenger of BiH” No 34/02), a legal basis for carrying out laboratory tests was defined as part of the Food Reside Monitoring Plan for Food Products. The BiH Veterinary Office's leadership has chosen laboratories from neighbouring countries of Serbia and Croatia through a public call for the selection of the best bidder, as part of the Residency Monitoring Plan. I would like to ask the Director of the Veterinary Office a question while respecting the justification for such a procedure and an explanation regarding the selection of the laboratory. Taking into account the large financial expenditures allocated from the Budget of the BiH institution for the implementation of the Residency Monitoring Plan in food products, I am interested in the following – What is the time limit for the delivery of laboratory findings from Serbia and Croatia? Who and how do they interpret such findings? Which way and whom do you report on the results of the residual monitoring? What are the effects and benefits of monitoring the residence? What steps do you take if the findings indicate the malfunction of the samples delivered? Which way and how do you justify financial spending to the Council of Ministers? Do you publish lab results on the website? In view of the above, would you ask the Veterinary Office to provide me with a graphic summary of the laboratory results of the monitoring programme for 2010, 2011 and 2012 as soon as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14147	Thank you. Dear Ismet Dervoz, a new question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome my colleagues and colleagues, members and members of the Council of Ministers and guests. 27 I refer to the initiative – After the accession and signing process has been completed, and it is somewhat symbolic, on 8 March 2013, of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, known as the Istanbul Convention, I call on the Council of Ministers to deliver as urgently as possible, to speed up the process of delivering the Council of Europe Convention to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14149	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14150	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I have one question for the Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Federal Highway Directorate. The public is known to be in BiH at the moment, but not just at the moment, in the last few years, the biggest highway construction investment in Corridor 5c in BiH. We are witnessing that these jobs are mainly obtained by foreign companies, very often very suspicious references. The example is on the Sarajevo bypass, examples on the Venjenac tunnel, this one, show that these companies are not credible, but are unable to carry out the jobs they have received. It is obvious that these jobs are often obtained under very strange and suspicious circumstances. So I ask the question, and the result of the consortium of domestic companies in Corridor 5c on the Vjenac tunnel shows that these companies are more competent for the jobs they have received and that they work without any problems – why are these jobs, which are the largest development project in BiH at the moment, not assigned to Bosnian Herzegovina companies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14151	Thank you. We don't have any new reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on Amendments and MPs Darko Babalj's proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH At the 43rd session of the House, held on 28.02., Amendment I proposed because of an insufficient entity majority in the first round of voting, it was sent to the House College for subsequent alignment. The college didn't achieve consent. You got the report. There's no discussion here. 28 We move to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. A statement on setting a new deadline for the delivery of a report on the Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight in the area of defence and security of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: The Joint Defence and Security Commission, or suspending the legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14155	Mr. Chairman. So it is a law that does not seem to be a major procedure for the basic text, it mainly concerns things that go towards a more efficient and faster settlement of cases in administrative procedure and standardisation when emergency legal medicines are involved in the environment and if we want to do so with European standards. That's actually what, there's more, so the changes that relate to the electronic system and so on, but these are the most important things. We had this Law on the Commission, we supported it unanimously, and I suggest that the House adopt it, but I have stood up to say one other thing here, about otherwise procedural laws that appear in the parliamentary procedure. It is my commitment, I think it will be, I hope and the Commission's commitment, that when more significant changes to procedural laws are in the question that without public debate we are not going to this second reading. I think 29 should be organized. We have thus decided that the Law on a litigation procedure should be discussed publicly, no one is harmed by this public debate and it is only done to ensure that these are the best possible solutions and nothing else is, therefore, Wednesday. That's what I want to say here in front of the present justice minister. So, I suggest that the House adopt this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14156	Thank you. So, we have two ways of opening a public debate, that the commission proposes it... or that Parliament after the first reading, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14157	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14158	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14159	Here, I will be very brief and, of course, with an apology, because this is about the amendment phase, I have not submitted the amendments, but here is the support of what Mr. Džaferović was talking about, and by understanding what this is about, I have a kind of dilemma left, but here is the minister, so I would like to hear it. Therefore, the possibility has been lifted in relation to the solution so far to seek the protection of legality. The reason is that it is rarely used and that it is not a practice and so on. I'm afraid that people were in principle not even informed maybe that, they didn't know they could seek protection and so on, so this one, and appeal to European practice. In the conditions in which our administration, or the way our administration works and the way our people are treated, I'm afraid this was premature. I think that abolishing the protection of legality can be accepted in systems that function impeccably, which respect the citizen and so on, but I'm afraid we're not at that stage. And I would like to ask a brief comment from the minister – are you sure it was mature time to cancel? I didn't act amendmental because I wasn't sure. Thank you very much, and last time I didn't get a chance to ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14160	There is a need for a respected minister, Mr. Čolak. Here's Bariša.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14161	Thank you, Mr. President. Thanks for asking. Well, you see, we have no other answer than what we have given, but in reason. Namely, if one institute, if it is not used or very, very rarely used, and if such a practice is in the environment, we simply think that the time has come to simply remove that institute from the law. So, we are thus harmonising our legislation with legislation in 30 environments and simply, here is why this institute has not really been used or really very, very rarely used in practice so far. As for your question that they are not citizens, of course they are familiar with everything. Therefore, if it is regular legal medicines and exceptional legal medicines, no one particularly pointed out one thing to the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14162	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the sixth point, Ad. Six. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (the law in first reading) At the 43rd session of the House, held on 28.02., this legislative proposal was addressed to the College for subsequent alignment. The college didn't achieve consent. This isn't a debate. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Single Parent Number – Proposers: MPs Saša Magazinović, Senad Šepić, Mirsad Đugum, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović and Beriz Belkić (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14165	So, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Chairman until one of the proposings decides. So this law was on the Constitutional Commission and we decided, on constitutional basis and on principle, as we decided, so we supported both. This text of the Law fully fulfils and no less or less, the requirement of 31 judgments of the Constitutional Court. And this Law represents the implementation of that judgment. And that's why he's backed up on the Constitutional Commission, and that's why I'm proposing to support him and the House of Representatives. I don't think it's a good idea that when the Constitutional Court's rulings are carried out that the laws that mean implementation add things about which there is no political agreement together with the things that mean and these things don't mean and are not important for the implementation of judgments together with the things that mean the implementation of judgments or issues. In this way, the implementation of the Constitutional Court’s ruling or judgment is actually prevented. Therefore, where there is no agreement on some issues, it is necessary to put into law only what the Constitutional Court requires and to declare it. And implementation should not be burdened with other issues. This law, therefore, is no less than what the Constitutional Court requires. There are things that we can agree or disagree with and in this law, when the names are, therefore, concerned, but this is, I must, therefore, say that this is the implementation of the Constitutional Court's ruling and that is why I propose to the House to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14166	Thank you. Dear Member Senad Šepić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14167	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, I'll be real brief. We were at the last session, when we first discussed this issue, less said what the initiative was, what was the idea, what we were about to achieve about the five promoters. I'm going to appeal to all of us today to show really that ultimate responsibility here, to keep in mind, and that's the last time we've all mentioned how important it is to solve this issue and that newborn children can finally get a unique birth number, they can be listed in the books of the born. It is evident that through this question some other policy is trying to break the same. I'm one of those people who thinks that in all these things, of course, all we need to talk about right now is that at this point when we don't have that kind of needy species and that needed level of consensus, so we're not burdening it with issues that are important to everyone, we don't have any kind of national sign, and I expect that in that sense, so today we all show responsibility together and support it. On the one hand, we have an entirely legal and legal approach when it comes to the Constitutional Court's rulings, and on the other hand perhaps what most people are now in this country at this point more important, and that is to allow newborn children to get a unique birth number and be enrolled in the books of the born. It is evident that after we put up with this initiative, a Council of Ministers initiative has also appeared, or an attempt to re-emerge from this problem by the Council of Ministers. What we had a chance to see, so it's the same exact text of the law as it was a year ago when we had it here in this Parliamentary Assembly. I believe that there will be room for these things to be discussed in some next step, but that today here and in the first reading and of course in that sense, to show that kind of responsibility to close this case to the end and actually solve this basic problem, as I just said, which is that children can get a unique birth number and that they can be entered in the birth book. 32 In line with some general approach to resolving certain issues at the last session, I proposed one conclusion that he had in some way aimed at agreeing in principle on things concerning a legal or legal approach to respecting the decisions of the highest court in this country and at adopting a conclusion that if we had this case on some other examples, we would probably base ourselves on changes that would treat the matter and the core that the Constitutional Court was treating and in such a way we would no longer have these problems, because in the next period we would probably come from some similar situation, so we will always try to find space for another broader, larger political story, and I think that we will just be burdening ourselves with it... So in the end, I call once again and I appeal to all of us to support this proposal today and to finally get the possibility that children can get a unique birth number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14168	Thank you. Dear Member Dušanka Majkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14169	Thank you very much. Well, I have to say that when I got this opinion, it was clear what one and the other entities were thinking, that's what two people think about the third people. This is the thing we often ask as a question here and try most often on some inconclusive arguments or speed, as Mr. Šepić said, we do something that would be contrary, not only to interests but also to the Constitution. So we know that at this point we have the law, and I believe that today the law will get its epilogue, and at the same time we know that in the 7th03th session of the Council of Ministers, a new proposal was adopted which I am also sure will not be supported by the Bosniak people. And where are we? We are there that the next solution that the RS needs to make – to pass its law. And we'll do it. So there's no blackmail here. No Niko will blackmail us with decisions taken, drawn from the time of the former Yugoslavia, and that of those who have done everything to keep the former Yugoslavia from being there anymore. So that's our explicit attitude and we're not going to step away from it in any way. What's what I'd like to add? So what is first seen is that the Bošnjak political parties did not essentially accept Annex IV of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and he says clearly that BiH consists of two entities and three peoples, and that the Federation of BiH consists of 10 cantons. That's the attitude that's the constitutional category. And other laws to try to change what is against the constitutional truth, which is the constitutional category to change other laws is really inadmissible. I must say that the key problem in this proposal for this law is that it does not implement the Constitutional Court's ruling on the basis of the request of 76 Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia from May 2011 which adopted the request of Members in such a way as to establish that 33 members of 5. The single number law does not comply with Article 1.2. The BiH constitution and ordered that it be corrected within 6 months. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has reached an identical solution with regard to Articles 9 and 20.13. Election law. Why can't we accept this proposal? It's a key question, and it's the very essence. That's why I can't be, not only can't a constitutional basis be accepted, but also the principles of this law. Because the registration areas listed in this law are not adapted to the Constitution of a established territorial organisation. I, I took all the documents, all the constitutions, and saw that, the key question is the registration areas that are in Article 5, which have been annulled by the Constitutional Court, have been assumed in identical form by the law of the former Yugoslavia. Well, you know what, I thought you'd finally stop using from the former Yugoslavia what suits you, and what doesn't suit you will forget that, and holidays and similar things will be used whenever you need those former Yugoslavias. It is not necessary to support, so neither the constitutional basis nor the principles of this law, because the records of the central registers must maintain the structure of this state, which means two entities, the Brcko District and 10 cantons. Therefore, it is illogical in the registration areas mentioned in this proposal, not only problematic in terms of inter-entity but also inter-cantonal. I suppose that's why the representatives of the Croatian people did not support these principles. The Constitutional Court is a solution to non-execution, not only has it changed the names of the municipalities, which you would like only to have left, but has implemented his decision, he could have done so himself to change the name of the municipalities, but here you are, in some cases, the Constitutional Court has not done so this time. Registration areas were requested to be established in the law, i.e. by the Constitution. So was that clear to you what you were looking for? That's what the initial proposal of the Ministry of Civil Affairs was, that's what I hope will be another proposal from the Ministry of Civil Affairs that won't suit you. So these are the reasons why this law cannot be passed. He's unconstitutional. He does not reflect the state of Dayton BiH. And don't do exactly what you're protecting BiH from destroying it. So if we can't agree, don't think our citizens will suffer for it. The RS will get its law and our newborns will get a unique home number, no matter what you think of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14170	Replica, dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14171	So, quite clearly, is it completely unconstitutional? BiH, Dayton BiH, I spoke of it on the Constitutional Commission, there are several principles when it comes to constitutional law. It is complete, within internationally recognised borders, with its sovereignty, a state as an international law entity that continues to exist from the Republic of BiH. And that's Article 1 and that's the definition of BiH that has no debate and no discussion. 34 The second is the internal structure of BiH, which is described in the same article and in one section in Annex II, which speaks of arbitration, and now in Article 6 when it talks about the Brcko District of BiH. Therefore, Article 1 speaks of the internal structure in both the Amendment and the Constitution of BiH. And a lot of people try to stop there, but there's no stopping. There is another principle in Article 1 which is called four freedoms – freedom of movement of goods, freedom of movement of people, freedom of movement of capital and freedom of movement of services within the framework and, within international borders, recognise with your territorial integrity and sovereignty of BiH, regardless of the internal inter-entity cantonal or municipal structure. Anyone who strikes this third principle must know that at the same time they are hitting this second principle. It is not possible to call for an inter-entity structure, but to focus on freedom of movement within BiH. This law is a direct reflection of the implementation of the four freedoms of movement within BiH. The BiH Constitution does not prescribe what is inside the entity and what is the structure within the entity. This law was passed in 2001 or 2002, so I'm not sure exactly in years, and he prescribed the structure he prescribed. And he didn't accidentally prescribe such a registration area. And it has to do with the realisation of this principle of freedom of movement. An attempt to implement the judgment of the registration area is solely within the entity-conceived inter-entity lines to attack this freedom. And I call on you not to do that, because all those who attack on it must know that they are attacking at the same time and on BiH's inter-entity or entity interior arrangements. That's my colleague Majkić's answer to your statement. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14172	Thank you. Replica, distinguished colleagues Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14173	Thank you, Chairman. Very short and taxing. The Constitutional Court's ruling does not mention inter-cantonal editing and it is illusory and unnecessary to talk about it and perhaps it is, can be seen more as needless waste of time talking about it. Registration areas are also not part of the verdict and it would be good if the representatives who speak about the law on the implementation of the judgment had read the same verdict and its reasoning. So that's not part of the verdict either. The fact that the law is unconstitutional can claim whoever it is, but the only one who's competent to say whether something is in accordance with the Constitution or not is the Constitutional Court. And I suggest we pass the law, so if you think it's just because it's unconstitutional it can't go into effect, let the Constitutional Court say whether or not it is. And he's up, I say he is. If you hadn't read the verdict, as well as its argument, your point is that entities or entities will adopt their laws. So he won't adopt, because the Constitutional Court just said it wasn't possible. And if you had read the verdict, you would have seen it and that this is the exclusive jurisdiction of BiH. So the possible attempt to adopt, overcoming this problem in one part, is a needless waste of time in one part of BiH because such a eventually passed law will be put out of force, as it already says in a document that makes this all work. 35 So the goal today is to bring down this law, I understand that, but I do not support it, and I will never participate in this project. It's also intended to separate parent numbers by entities. And I understand that it's someone's goal, but I'm not going to be a part of this project for sure. What has information, and I think it would be unserious to take them out here until I check them out, that's what the goal is after that when you separate the parent numbers and what all the relationships have to do with these parent numbers, and that would be good to tell us. And finally, I repeat for the hundredth time, wait with a proposal to implement this law, until it comes to the stage that the Constitutional Court will annul its member, which allows the issue of birth numbers to only be born and to be born, as a tool to bring ourselves into a situation where anyone is under pressure, we need to agree to something that is out of their minds, is underestimating all of us whose support you are counting on in this process and without whose support this law cannot be adopted, and using children as an argument and as hostages to meet some political goal, which has much more to do with all other than the parent number, I think it is politically irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14174	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14175	So I really don't mind that you have a clear and firm political attitude when it comes to these things. I don't mind if you and I talk about the BiH Constitution the way you're experiencing it. But I also don't allow you to interpret what I said. You may have a personal impression of that, but saying it's a waste of time or not a waste of time, I'm sorry, I think everything you said was a waste of time. Here, that's what I have to say now. Otherwise, what does that mean? What kind of relationship is that to your colleagues, that everything is a waste of time that you don't say? So we're different political options and we come here with different goals. We will see if there will be a waste of time when the Council of Ministers' law comes and when we speak, there are the same reasons for it to be passed as soon as possible. It's waiting, it's not okay to keep it going, you'll be saying it differently, then we'll probably be in reverse roles. Don't convince us of what you can't convince us. I thought the promoter would make that, to try and agree on things that are difficult, they require an agreement, but to say what is rational, that we will do it and help fix the situation in this country. The buried position in which you hold yourself and the inability to have us on anything that's different from you, to get any consent to it, will not bring this country anywhere. Will we and what do we do if we pass our law, don't worry, leave it alone, that's our torment that we will fight?But make sure we do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14176	Since there's no colleague here, I'd like a replica, but here I'll refrain from it and we'll take the turn of who signed up, and hopefully I'll be able to discuss this point. 36 Dear counterpart Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14177	I have no intention of getting involved in these big words, calling on peoples, entities and so forth. This is how I think about this situation. So, there are situations in parliamentary life and work when each of us individual, MP, regardless of the discussion and the story being told, must in some way face the problem as the owner of the mandate, as the man chosen by those who expect certain solutions from it. I think that today we are in this situation and we all need to ask ourselves how long we can, by our actions and by our inaction, endure this situation, or harm individuals. As far as I'm concerned, the time has already expired and each of us has to make a decision. So today's decision will not, in my opinion and belief, be the result of high policies, vital interests of entities, etc., it will be the result of understanding or misunderstanding of the individual needs of the people who chose us. All other things we disagree on, regardless of the result of today's vote, or the outcome, they will remain open and they will not escape us. Today’s decision will neither help solve these matters nor help. So that's another reason more to face specific things, and each of us, in our own conscience, does it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14178	Thank you. Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14179	Mr. Vice President. There's a lot of talk about this and everyone has a part of it, I mean, there's a lot of talk on the Constitutional Commission of Politics and there's different attitudes. Obviously, there is no will to get close in terms of resolving this issue, respecting the country's constitutional structure and respecting the country's constitution. They often use different arguments that have absolutely nothing to do with it. I am interested, as regards these fundamental principles of the country's territorial integrity, which, by this law, would it be adopted on the proposal we advocate, so we MPs from the RS, are at risk of freedom of any movement in BiH as a fundamental human right? So, what's that, is there any word that would point to that? How is he threatened? Does this mean that human rights are in danger to anyone in BiH that there are two entities in the RS and the Federation of BiH? What kind of way is that, in general, of calling for justice and justice so that the media can draw attention to us by proposing registration areas that would be appropriate, so the entity arrangement of this country, one of the 13 numbers of identification number 1 and it would be absolutely present in all registration areas. There are other numbers that are not used in the context of this and that need serious consideration. The team wouldn't be free either, she wouldn't be threatened. I do not want, so we have proposed, we believe that this way of implementing the Constitutional Court decision is not, which was proposed by the MPs of the SDP and others, so those who have joined... I have no objection to such a proposal, we will vote on it, we will see how it goes. This Constitutional Court decision should be implemented in BiH. We don't violate the Constitution by anything that 37 say that registration areas will also be from numbers, I don't know, from 10 to 18 and nothing will be damaged by anything. The names will be evened as they are in BiH. The citizens will, the newborns will be able to have birth numbers and we will be able to... This is unacceptable to you for a number of reasons. We're telling the truth. The country's constitutional structure is like that. Furthermore, we're saying, often those who talk about a unique home number today are calling, they keep saying, you know what when you talk about aneks IV, then please tell me about all the annexes of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Well, here, I'll say it. Annex II Daytonskgo peace agreement is an agreement on an inter-entity line of demarcation. Well, I won't say demarcation, interagency line. So it's an international agreement that, when and when we talk about it, we should have said what we wanted to say. So that's what we want. We want us and this law at the level of the BiH state as we are... we are not running anywhere from BiH. Nowhere will any RS municipalities be transferred to some Mars, nor will they be out of BiH. What are we talking about? What do we want, what kind of message are we sending about BiH in the first place? What kind of will are we talking about in BiH if we do not admit that the constitutional structure is what it is and that it is what it is now and in accordance with the Constitution of this country we are going to make laws? In that sense, dear colleagues, I think we should seriously not rule out each other in conversations here, but we do not come to a solution that will completely shut us down. And there's a lot of stuff in this country since '96. To this day out of our will passed on. We are here discussing this law in a way that we want to have it which would be part of the compromise and agreement. Why do you agree with the structure of intermunicipal conferences and from chambers of commerce to '91. the year, and it didn't suit you BiH, did some not answer BiH as it was? What for now? Why would it now suit us if we could do such a way of defining which would be acceptable? So, I think this law should be proposed in the form in which it would be acceptable for us from the RS, acceptable to be at BiH level the way we said. If our proposal is not accepted, we believe that, I am sure, there will be a solution that will answer that someone should not suffer because we politicians are unable to agree on a minimum of things, and that will imply that they will be adopted by the competent parliamentary authorities and in accordance with the Constitution of entities, laws that would... correspond. Whether it will be counter-constitutional, then let the Constitutional Court determine and state the way out of such a crisis and the situation in which we are. So, but here I think we have enough time to reach an agreement in 15 days of cold heads on this, in accordance with what the Council of Ministers has already adopted in the previous session. What happened last year was also not accepted by you. Don't falsely speak to your voters, don't keep making false promises to them, you see we've deceived someone now in this country this will be the way it is. That's not true, we'll have to agree on everything equally, including this question. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14180	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14181	Well, here's to my colleague Lazar. So the point was that what was set up to make entity registers, that it actually didn't, so it doesn't endanger the right to freedom of movement, the use of services and so on. I 38 know Lazare that there are people in the Bosnian Krupa who want to be placed in, say, a register in Banja Luka. Are we putting them at risk if we don't let them do it now? There are people in Trebinj who want to be, right in the register that's in Mostar. There are people in Doboy who want to be in Zenica. So it's some kind of natural, natural form that we've had, that we've lived for years. And what's more important is that there are general trends in integration. So in the last session, I talked about it in general, we all talk about it in this country, ask people, 90% of people say they want to have less limits. And we're making some regulations and we're actually going back, not one step, we're going back three or four steps, when it comes to making some bigger boundaries and some bigger barriers. I mentioned the last time, now that you're entering the EU that we're looking for, you're driving through seven countries, you don't know where the borders were, and we're making some kind of, I don't know, we're going back that way and that way a few steps back and that's what we're sure about, so no one in that sense can get what's called a policy, especially when it comes to the commitment to respect this country and that we want to build this country. So, there's as many examples as you want to make sure that in this way we're sure to endanger people's right to have freedom of movement, to use services and to use... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14182	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14183	Thank you. My replica refers to the presentation of the esteemed colleague Šepić. You seem to be skipping that section there with the news from the world when you're talking about integration. Because if you came to that section, then you'd hear a little bit about Catalonia and Scotland and so on. And I'm afraid this country can experience such a fate, not because we from Republika Srpska want it, I think BiH should defend against those who defend it from us, and by this law, you BiH think you're defending us. No, fellow Šepiću. And thank you, I would take the opportunity to thank all my colleagues from both the SDA and the SDP for not accepting solutions that we are willing to accept for a simple reason because it strengthens the sovereignty of the RS. You will force us to pass the law in the National Assembly. And thank you for that colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14184	Replica, dear colleague Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14185	I believe, dear fellow Šepić, that he is part of this majority so that he may think as I speak. I understand the SDA's position in the context of what you're talking about, but I'll give you one detail. I don't know what you know about this so someone from Trebinj and, I don't know, Krupe wants to be, but I know that we are legitimately directly elected to... the citizens of this country. We convey the attitudes of those who chose us. I don't have any restraints on BiH's coat of arms and flag, but I also respect RS at least 39 so much, so to the least. We don't limit any freedom through this and don't tell the citizens we're scaring them. Full freedom of movement and every other way has been achieved in this country. This is about administrative settlement of basic issues. It shows, so watch out, go back to the BiH Constitution where it says that entities have, therefore, that every BiH citizen has the citizenship of state and entity, the citizens will have passports, entities will issue passports according to the law. _________(?) Which one? It doesn't matter which, but we'll get to it. Be assured, we do not have to today, in 50 years we will come to this country that, despite this coat of arms, BiH will have to be the coat of arms and entities and citizenship of entities and membership... We don't give up on either one or the other. You may like it or not, but that's what we think. Well, I think it's a lot fairer than now to tell you that I want something else. I'm telling you honestly how I feel about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14187	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14188	What are we gonna do, Berize, I love you very... you're a very honest man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14189	Replica finally, a respected colleague of Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14190	Thank you, Chairman. You are as tolerant as your colleague Ljubić at the beginning of the session. I have to notice today. So when I was talking about wasting time, I think wasting time is all that doesn't lead to a solution. And this story of what's going to happen in 50 years, I'd like to be able to sit down with a colleague of Prodanović in 50 years, so let's talk about it, unfortunately for 50 years, I think I'll be sitting alone, and I'll... [[Common discussion]] My kolegica, Majkić, is calling for arrangements, and I welcome her call. Here, and I'm calling her on a deal on this one if we're going to base that agreement on no belittling and that the deal doesn't mean that someone won and someone lost. Let's make arrangements to be my way, that's the platform we've had all these years and that obviously doesn't score. So every 40 other types of deal where people are flexible, where they understand other people's attitudes are something that's a positive thing and that's welcome. When we talk about jeopardizing someone's rights, freedom and so forth, so let's say what the law, which the Council of Ministers has proposed, threatens it, here I am also asking what was threatened by the law that was in force until, for legitimate reasons, changes in the name of municipalities have not come into the situation to change that member. What was this right threatened in '76, '86, 96, 2006, 2012? What was that right threatened by? Did anyone complain about that? Well, guys, we had no idea it was such an orderly area until we reached the Constitutional Court verdict, both the representatives here and the citizens. Someone knew he was in some register. Come on, please. Thus, we make a simple technical issue politically, according to the old habit. And I can only say I'm sorry about that. A colleague of Prodanović said that we should not rule out each other in the talks. I absolutely agree with him, I'm prepared with him as with my distinguished colleague, not only from this House but also from the Constitutional Legal Commission to discuss any topic. And it doesn't occur to me to shut him out of any conversation for the next, I don't know how many years, that I'm not talking about it right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14192	I'd be begging the MPs to...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14193	Here's five seconds and I'm out of time. But I talked to my colleagues from a number of political parties, but the only reason I didn't talk to my colleague, Prodanović, is because his colleague, Krstan Simić, proposed an identical law to the one we proposed. I thought it might be better to use that time to talk to someone who hasn't yet established his position on the matter. And that's the only reason I didn't talk to him. And Krstan Simić proposed this law before us here at the House of Representatives. So that's the only reason. And I apologize for not talking to you and for the second time when a colleague of yours suggests I'll sit down and see what you think about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14194	I thank the distinguished representative Saša Magazinović. I'm glad the president of the SDP Club explained what a platform is. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14195	I thank the chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I want to look back on three segments. First I'm talking about responsibility and speed, and I want to say here that we've all failed, as far as responsibility is concerned. Just the fact that newborns can't get their birth number is enough to say that we failed that test. As for the speed itself in the work to come to a solution, let us not be brakers in the process. Here, I'll give you a hand for that direction. Today this law obviously couldn't pass, it's clear from all discussions and announcements. Don't delay the second round of voting for the next assembly. Let's settle this law today. 41 Someone may not like the way he will be resolved, but we in the Extended College have concluded that as soon as the law comes from the Council of Ministers that we should schedule a new session. If we end up today within a reasonable time frame, why don't we schedule after this session a new one with only one item on the agenda that we put the law that came from the Council of Ministers on the agenda. Here, I also promise not to ask for a second round of voting to be postponed, and for that law that I know is being prepared, that the Council of Ministers has passed, that it has been admitted to us in the Parliamentary Assembly and is going through an emergency procedure. I won't ask him to postpone and vote 18, only April 18th we have a session. Let him experience today the fate he must experience, in order to be aware in this BiH that we have the law at all and that we do not lie or cheat, to say that he is there in some alignment and that only next month will he come to the agenda. Here's a chance for all of us to make a contribution to speed up the process. My kolega Džaferović, I'm sorry he's not here, but he gave us a lesson on the Constitution. No Niko asked him to. And it seems to me, so one experienced lawyer when he talks about the Constitution should tell all segments of that Constitution. A colleague, Mr. Prodanović, mentioned Aneks II.. Read colleagues and colleagues, Aneks Ii which says - an additional human rights agreement to be applied in BiH, the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Read the Article of the Constitution – human rights and fundamental freedoms which it says – the rights and freedoms provided for in the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, are directly applicable in BiH and these acts have priority over all other laws. Read in the Convention on the Rights of the Child that all organs must, for the benefit of the child, perform certain actions. Who says they don't have the right to pass the law and the Convention on Human Rights is above the BiH Constitution? What constitutional court will undo this law if the competent authorities do so for the sake of children and pass their laws? Why isn't Mr. Džaferović talking about it? He's only interested in the Constitution, he's not the whole story of the Constitution and the other conventions here. Gentlemen, what are we talking about? And a third thing. Mr. Magazinović is talking about politics, and I would like the minister to come out here and say when politics got involved in the adoption of this law. So he can deliver solutions in which he agrees with the law that passed last April, as well as this law that the Council of Ministers passed and the Federal Ministry of Interior and cantonal ministries and the RS and Brcko District. And then politics got involved, colleague Magazinović. Then politics said beyond the profession that she couldn't do it. You mention all kinds of projects. Are you referring to Project 1. Mart" which party of yours is promoting in BiH in the heart? Are you talking about a project where the residence should be a problem in BiH, you don't want to talk about the law. To talk about the platform, and all we know is that the platform you run in the Federation has failed. So don't be brakers when we're already responsible for this happening here. Let one law pass today on the agenda however it goes, and let the competent institutions, in accordance with the Constitution and international conventions, do what must be done to the welfare of the newborns, when we are unable to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14196	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14197	I thank the chairman. You see, after these discussions have taken place, especially following my announcement and replicas, it seems almost too high to remind me that the apropo story of where we will be in 50 years, we will certainly not be in the former Yugoslavia, we will not be in Dayton BiH. To remind colleagues and colleagues that we will probably not have any entity citizenship, nor will we need passports to be issued somewhere by entities and so on, because the EU, if we really want to go there, has long introduced a category of EU citizenship, and it is likely that for which 10 years and not ten years or ten years, a passport will only take some to go to Africa and America. So, I needed to really remind myself, even though I kept myself in this discussion that was at least about the metrics and which, among other things, deserves really special attention, and I'm sorry that the discussion went along with this tone, even some fellow parliamentarians really surprised me, some in their radicalism and too surprised, even though they were telling us and it was just that some threatening finger and so on. But I have to say, I'm most surprised by the real fight, the family quarrel within the ruling coalition. So let me put it this way in short lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14198	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14199	I thank the chairman. Although the motive was second in the meantime he said a lot. Most of it was said by Mr. Živković. And when I pressed the reporting button, I primarily thought I was denying when it came to one vital guy named Lazar Prodanović, that someone was doubting his vitality in the next period and that one of them was better at it. It's not safe, don't doubt he won't be sitting in these benches and anywhere else, so don't let anyone count on him to sit alone. There will be someone sitting with them, Mr. Prodanović, or some Lazar will sit. Someone will, in some ways, be so that no one doubts that Lazar has a song even about Emperor Lazar and Emperor Laza. But even though I thought there was going to be some kind of, because, the deal, because I think we're really right here, really right, and I don't see any need. I'm listening to those arguments, so I'm trying to find something in them that could possibly be. I'm sorry there are no colleagues in Šepić, he was talking about integration. I've seen the SDA's proposal to resolve the city of Mostar's issues. If there's anything out there integrated Bog killed me. It's all about division and cementing, and I don't know what else to say anymore. Because we have to be principled, when we talk about interactions then it has to be in all fields. You can't lift in Mostar walls and talk in, I don't know, the Source of Integration. I don't think it's okay. Here's a colleague of Magazinović's saying '76. It didn't bother anyone. Now and if I were to say that Tuzla's home number is once attached to Belgrade, I think it would be chaos. And then there was everything in Belgrade and everything was going to Belgrade and there was no problem. Tuzla preferred Belgrade than Banja Luka. And now 43 if we did, it's not right to return that story because of the '90s. and '91. If that story had been defended that everything was fine today everything would have been different. '90s. It is said that nothing was wrong and that nothing was wrong and that we should split up and that they should know the limits. Now all of a sudden there's a story going on don't get any boundaries, what, so, what, I mean, it really doesn't make sense. But one is the fact Mr. Živković spoke of and ignored by both SDP and SDA. Mr Nović entered this parliament with the bill's proposal voted on the Council of Ministers and with all possible consent in BiH that can be obtained for one legislative project. It's complete. There was neither Krstan Simić, whom his colleague Magazinović spoke of, nor anyone else, when that law was brought down. And today there's consent to something like that. And I asked here to see what the problem was. No, someone remembered that trying to, it's impossible to look for solutions that, at this point that aren't dejtonski and solutions that aren't based on the Constitution. About their character, whether it could have been or not, as one of us would have wanted, about that after.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14200	Replication timed out.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14201	But I think I'm finishing up, we're wasting our time, that the solution here will eventually be known and expected.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14202	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14203	Well, I'm replicating everyone because the replica is also an expression of the knowledge that this story, that is, these stories that appear on one side and on the other, are not leading to a solution, but rather, to deepening the different approach to this matter. Here, as some kind of attempt to focus on some possible solution, I'm so shy and touchingly suggesting, let's make this some kind of a little test, maybe go to some model that implies that the basis for determining these registration areas is Austro-Hungarian. BiH is from the time of Austro-Hungarian. On the one hand, it relativises this story of borders, and on the other hand it directs us towards a desirable direction that is the declared desirable direction of all of us, which is the direction of European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14204	Thank you. Creative proposals are coming. Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14205	Dear Saša Magazinović, colleagues. Well, no, you don't think I'm such a parliamentary or life turtle, I thought I'd live 50 years. I mean, honestly, that's not what I meant. I was thinking of a process, I mean a process that is essentially one dialogue and that would result in 44 integrational, therefore, to be together in Europe, and identifiable in terms of identity. I think we should preserve that identity and do nothing to harm BiH either. Normally, when I was talking about that part, I didn't think that I was going to be the present question. It's a life issue is a degree of identity, identification, personality. It will be good here that this land is neither narrow nor small, but that everyone in it is content. This way, I don't think I'm jeopardizing what I'm talking about, so we're not jeopardizing anyone, we're talking about reality. Last time I said, if circumstances change that we will agree with the Constitution, if and when. Furthermore, I will say one more thing, it is unnecessary what I am saying, how we can talk about a law that is unacceptable in terms of registration areas that would respect BiH's entity arrangement if we have the consent of the BiH Federation, the Ministry of Interior, the canton and RS ministries. What's that for? Why are we losing energy here about it? How we're going to lead this process further depends most on us. But I think the way we're thinking right now is simply creating additional tensions, not in my head, I don't have reserves around it, but in the heads of those who can significantly affect the state of this country. I'll say one more thing, Germany, here's what we're talking about. I don't know about passports, Germany, every federal province issues an I.D. with a sign of a federal province. I don't know if this citizen of the Federal Republic of Germany and federally arranged and high, let's say the centralized state put anyone at risk in Berlin. I don't know if anyone's threatened in Switzerland that on any personal document you have an absolute mark of the state of Switzerland and of every canton. What is this problem we're talking about now? The problem is that now you, we won't get anything on this, we're losing trust and we're stopping processes that would mean political stability and the assumption of progress and prosperity of citizens in this country. But they're not stability if we listen to this, if he's an unfair relationship to it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14206	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm starting to relax a little bit. I certainly won't be among those in 50 years, so, but these things that, uh, they're planning on having luck with. But I must say that there is no border in BiH, that those with free flow of people, goods and capital have already been overcome for the first 4-5 years, and why now to tighten things up again on things that, when we suggest it says it can't, and then you expect us to accept when you suggest what you know we won't accept. Eh, there's a problem that we had in the earlier period, the Council of Ministers knew we only had the intended three ministers and the chairman, we got to 9, all of this accepted by the RS and in some ways with, as much as possible trying to get you competences off the entity to take off. Instead of going to decentralisation where the municipalities will have greater roles and meanings we want everything and also a banal thing sometimes that is not important to put at the level of the state. 45 And here we are, today we come to spend at the state level around billions of dollars in budgets, and the development and social programme has remained on entities. And what's the problem? I guess they'll understand better in that part of the entity and in the entities their development programs than to make and alienate that it was once alienated at the level of the former Yugoslavia. So I remember very well when, I have to say, a man came from the Bosnian Petrovic to Sarajevo to charge for the Shipad-Comerz construction he delivered long ago, and they said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. He invested there the hardest part of the job, from cutting, extracting, gave Šipad-Komerc-Comer the Sarajevo-based part of the job that has when anyone will get the money. And for these reasons, that centralization has put us in a position that there is no longer enough trust. And that's why I don't see any reason, and now it's a little bit of an uproar to me when the Council of Ministers' proposal, or the Secretary-General's council, went to the Council of Ministers, to run with a bill of law to get ahead, I guess, knowing it won't be the way it fits. Well, I guess we chose that Council of Ministers, and we should wait until we see what they say first. And here it is now on the Council of Ministers, we have one law today that is envisaged, and here, as Mr. Živković said, it could, if we agree, be found within 10 days at this Parliament's hearing. That sometimes makes it seem like we're moving a little bit further away from each other than we should. I mean, personally, let's stop with the emotion of what our kids want. So which child won't be protected and don't put yourself in a position that we won't be able to register, we'll find a way. And then don't, if it comes in such a position, then you can't expect that in the RS it doesn't react in a way that such a law is passed to protect those children. For that reason, if we're looking for as much understanding as possible, then let's start with what's agreed on the Council of Ministers, so let's see what kind of relationship will be and how close we'll be to each other, but I think we're too far away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14208	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14209	Thank you. Here, just the last words of my colleague Tomić are kind of obvious to me. However, not wanting to offer support to either the promoters or to Mr. Lazar, or I don't know Mr. Mata Franjičević, or the other speakers, as far as the unique birth number I see among them who speak so much, is definitely not going to get the appropriate support. But I also see the reasons, no matter what I try to understand all together, I think that among all the debaters as far as I can see, no one is an expert in administrative law to talk about a unique parent number so much that all together could convince us and satisfy all the parties in this House. I definitely think as a man that it would be good to just wait for the Ministry to say what they're going to say as people who have experts, who will respect both primary and secondary rights and see what the situation is and get out of the way, and then we'll definitely say whether it's okay or not. So don't waste too much time and so on. That's it, thank you. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14210	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14211	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor. I, not just today, but in the past few days, have been trying to define myself. It's just, I know what I'm up against, I can't figure out what I'm up against. Well, I have a few questions now, and here I am, using the opportunity, since the minister is here, to explain to all of us, and to me, along with all of you, a little bit - what is a unique parent number. What's a unique home number? I don't know what a unique home number is. I've heard some 14 figures there, I've heard, and I've also practiced whether it's not to go when it's determined outside of the place of residence, or outside the birth of a child, but to be in the same place where the child is born, where it's listed in the birth certificate and the birth number. I know that this number is recorded in different documents, as an identification number to be used. And I have to say I can't figure out what's important is whether that number, specifically for the community from which I come, is 19, 17, 15, 13, I can't figure out where it is... And I can't figure out what's important, here's to the colleagues on the left and the colleagues on the right, which is so important whether it's number 19 or 17. What's the other 12 digits? Shall we discuss them too? Well, first seven, I think they're talking about the date of birth, a little bit in the short version. Let's discuss it too, can we change that too? Because I really can't understand, I'm saying this because there are so many hard words here today. I don't like... regardless, meaning that this proposal you're talking about and it's not in the procedure, I'd probably be the first to come in and support everything that's in accordance with the Constitution. Any solution that is in accordance with the Constitution I will support is important to solve this problem. It is important to unset the possibility of determining a unique parent number. And again I say, I don't really see what the catch is that it's so important whether my registration number is 19 or 15. Maybe some of them are smarter, so they figured there was some significant difference. I'd like to know, too, because it's probably going to define me to make a statement on one or the other or some 15th proposal. But the way we're discussing this issue, he's exclusive. And let's try to practice.). Don't call for a compromise on the principle or it'll be like I say or it won't be. There's no compromise, it's not a compromise I mean, we know so much. Let's see what possible solution is and compromise is discount, compromise is respect, compromise is understanding and the need of others and thirds and so on. Here, it really means if it is true, and I think it is, that the parent number is determined according to the birth of the child, if it is true that it is determined in the same place where it has been determined, regardless of how it will be... the area, meaning, as far as I understand, it will not be moved now from the place where it has been determined, if it is true that this unique birth number has been determined by the organisational units, so to speak, the Ministry of Internal Affairs or the MUP, if it is true that it is there and entered, and if it is true that it can be obtained and removed there, in the same place, no matter what proposal of the law we accept, means that which one is now, today in the procedure or that, or that which, if the Council of Ministers will deliver when this day, if Bog does not pass, means whether anything in the life of that child of the newborn, this child of his parent, that parent, or if I adopt one of his own, or if I adopt one law, don't let, Bog, don't give. Well, I'd love to... if you can, yet this is your portfolio, no matter what your bill is, but I'd like you to tell us what it is that will affect people's fate if you don't give Bog, I wouldn't want to harm these ordinary people, in whom we all swear here by accepting, God Bog, the wrong proposal. What is it that 47 will dramatically affect them if we accept one or the other? Tell us what the wrong suggestion is if you can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14212	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, the replica of some colleagues' exposure. Of course we have to take care of our children, but we don't take care of ourselves who decides everything. In order for me to get to my home number that I once got, I'm going to be exposed to terrible costs, I have to go to the community where I was born, where I used to live, and I'll never be there again, I'll never go back to the reasons are my specifics. I can only confirm what Mr. Magazinović said – 50 years, because he buried all of us today. This looks like my one googoto in 2005... when some teacher said I had six months to live, and here's my second term missing Bog. But here, I won't be 50 years old, but okay, I'll go back. So, the information society, 21st century, 2012, as the distinguished colleague Franjičević said, should be returned to Austria, I would return it but to return it to me "Ćiro" if I had a train across the Palace to Visegrad and Wekru Gora. Who will return "Ćiro" there is no "Ćiro" hello, what will I do with "Ćiro“. So in order for a man who already has his home number to get to his home number, let's say if he lives in Banja Luka he must go from Banja Luka to Glamoch, neither do I, Drvar, where he must already go, to remove some document. What are these costs for these people? There's people's birth numbers. Now, the child was born here now has no home number. And I don't miss anyone because I like someone but this is what I was saying when I asked a parliamentary question, an ideal opportunity for these mortuarying teams to say here's not going to pass any laws. So as this is, there are no registration areas in Serbia, there is no in Croatia. In Croatia they say stop Cyrillic in Vukovar and stop. And I respect it, it is a state, I value Croatia as a state. But there are countless other things we can't agree on. So I support what my colleague Lozančić said – so what's important is number 13, 14, 16. Now, I'm going to dictate my exact birth number, but I don't know if anyone's saying it, but I'm not going to do it for a stenogram because they're going to abuse me, as someone went to the community where I was born, and I'm going to take out documents that I didn't ask for, and someone needs something. So, please, in short, the replicas are to all those who want, therefore, that through the home number and these registration areas they will do something just called Sarajevo. When I say Sarajevo, I mean unity of something. It doesn't really matter, either. It's important that it's functional, so wherever it is. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14214	Thank you. The word is Božo Ljubić. Here you go. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14215	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, the way this bill came into practice and the way we're having the debate doesn't give us confidence that we're going to solve this issue, I think. It seems to me that everyone's motive is to solve it. So let's turn around the way we can handle it. A year or so ago or I don't know how long ago the bill passed by the Council of Ministers, which, as we heard here, was prepared with all the necessary procedure and all possible consent and has not been adopted. So then the Constitutional Court decided to abolish the article and we came into a situation to realise now the Constitutional Court's decision but also to realise the essence, so the needs of BiH citizens. My objection, therefore, to the Council of Ministers is possible that they should not have waited for the Constitutional Court's decision, nor the proposals that appeared in either House, but as soon as the law failed to prepare a new one. But I suppose that's why they're not, they're probably looking for some political signal of agreement and consensus to come up with some kind of solution that's acceptable. And then we faced, here are two suggestions in two Houses. I can't, of course, go into the proposing's motives, but somehow this chronology of coming to these proposals makes me conclude that they're actually competing on who's going to beat who to it. So it's certainly not the way to come to a solution. I was on the committee that discussed this issue and, of course, I disagreed with some colleagues who said that this law proposed by five of our distinguished colleagues was not constitutional, so it is not in accordance with the Constitution. I believe that if we are making an amendment or an addition to a law that has already been passed here in this House, then that argument is out. However, I also disagree with those who reduce every legal solution, each proposal to strictly what the Constitutional Court requires. Well, if that's the law, that's how I deal with it, and when it comes to constitutional changes, Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci. And I think at this point, I personally, therefore, will refer to these proposals in a way that has a parliamentary majority in which my party is, we have a Council of Ministers who support this parliamentary majority, and I will primarily always support the Council of Ministers' proposals. But also aware of what counterpart Živković was saying, he refers in this debate to these various proposals in some way and suggests the outcome of the vote and this law, the proposal we are discussing and the possible proposal from the Council of Ministers to come afterwards. And I really, here, as a member of the College, appeal to all of us, in the first place to us in the College, when there comes a statement about these laws that we don't use, so re-procedural instruments, or if you want me to be rougher games, and keep in life something that can't ultimately be maintained, but that we go as expeditely as possible and give the possibility to get to a law that can pass. And that's, that's mine, after all, the appeal. Thank you very much. Dear Minister Sredoje Nović. There are questions to be answered, and there are certain discussions that have been brought here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14216	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs. Of course, first of all, I will refrain from commenting on this law since no one has ever asked me about this law. We have been given the Council of Ministers to plead, and the Council of Ministers will be declared. I am very sorry, and this is not the first time we have 49 in this House, many laws that have been much more complicated, some of the MPs, with whom we have not been able to agree, but we have spent our days of agreeing and finding a solution. I have a feeling, don't blame me, that here in a particular case it didn't want to be. I don't want to speak, I have my own opinion, why is that and why there are three laws in Parliament. It's clear to me, I hope to all of you, but it's even clearer for citizens who don't have a single birth number, those whose lives can depend on and resolve a series of status and other issues. Obviously, we all have to keep our heads down in front of them all. I'm sorry to have to say it – I feel it really that way. This law didn't just come up, I'm not talking concrete law, but the problem didn't come up yesterday. Neither did we sit with our hands cut when the Constitutional Court made its decision. And then we entered completely, I'd say both honorably and more professionally, as many laws at the Ministry of Civil Affairs have been done, which have passed many procedures. Then we sent it to the Federal Ministry and to Canton of Sarajevo, and to the RS Ministry of Local Administration and Self-Government and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. Everyone then gave a positive opinion on the law. It's completely professionally convinced me that it's a law that has nothing in it that's controversial. And that's why the law came here to Parliament and as far as I can remember without debate being brought down. As far as I can remember, don't make me think that's the way it is. At least today I've heard many debates, at least today I've heard what many MPs think about the law with different aspects. I didn't hear that either. For a year, we waited for reactions from any new ones why the law fell, whether there was a reaction from cantons and entities, in a professional sense, primarily from the competent ministries. To this day, no Niko has made a different decision, or suggested, or suggested that he does not remain behind such proposals. And I guess it's clear to you and me that it's politics, not profession. We can move hard words here, we can withdraw the Constitution, we can interpret, we can represent different things here, this is still Parliament, I don't have the right maybe for some of the comments that you have, and I respect it deeply, but I have to say that it's been years since we've had this law. And now that we've come into one, so I'd say, matt position we didn't have enough hearing to reconcilade that, if any of these laws could pass. I'll just say the following. I hope that perhaps many here, or everyone, are known to have the first three groups of identification numbers, so the birth number, determine or define the date of birth. And before I say it, not all countries in Europe have a single home number, they don't. There are countries that don't have a home number at all. We inherited it from the former Yugoslavia, because the former Yugoslavia had it and all the countries today, today's countries that are independent they have retained. The debate is currently being held in Croatia, and they have made a decision to abolish the single parent number, but it has caused a complete disturbance in the procedures in the entire administration system, let me say, and they have returned it again and resolved how they have resolved. So let me repeat -- the first three groups of seven digits define the date of birth. The fourth group of two figures defines the registration area. And you saw, someone said here – 11, 13, 15, 19. The unit is the key, the unit is BiH. And you saw there's no 23, 45 and so on, that's a sign that there's a state. There is one mark that we all belong to here is BiH. And the second is the registration area. You all know well that this is the Union of Communists set those registration areas for some other reason, you all know that because you're not young enough not to know as well as I do. That at the time was the Intermunity Conference of the Union of Communists, the Intermunal Conference of the Union, the Intermunal Conference of the Socialist Union, the Intermunal SUPs were, most importantly, the inter-municipal SUPs were in BiH, the district courts that exclusively followed these registration areas, or today we say 50 registration areas, were then inter-municipal or conferences or areas. So it made perfect sense why someone regulated it at the time. It's all gone today. I, of course, can't have your talk about how much it takes. We will defend our law. The law of nature that we will defend because he has passed the procedure and the Council of Ministers and in the Council of Ministers has received the necessary majority to come to Parliament. It'll be up to you to evaluate that law one way or another. Of course, then there will be an opportunity to say about this law, and this I will leave to you, honourable MPs, to say whether or not you are in or out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14217	I thank the Honorable Minister. And I can say that for us seniors who weren't members of the Communist Union this exposure was instructive (?). Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14218	Well, I'm not gonna take my chance to argue, but I've lost my ability to replicate. And to bring this to an end, so I won't go into controversy with the minister, although I would have a lot to comment on, especially about who asks and coordinates when some things suggest. But here's one thing I'll say. Since my colleague Živković, with one proposal that I think is correct, and something similar has been repeated by my colleague Ljubić, here we are ready to consider doing so. But here, let the minister just, as a man who will be involved in this process however this is done today, come out for the pay phone and the stenogram says that if it happens today, one and the other solution that he will propose a law for the next session without giving us back the one that has already fallen twice. Let's show that kind of willingness to go in that direction, which is also spoken of by my colleague Majkić, that we are looking for a third model to solve this problem that we might agree on. If we're going to show our constructiveity today by speeding up the laws here that are evident... for neither of us can get support, and I'm surprised that the second time is the proposed law that can't possibly get support, and then in 15 days at Parliament's session, you're going to admit that this same law is a little too much. Here, let the minister say he's going to be part of this constructive story and there's no problem talking about how we're doing this job a little bit more expediently today.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14219	Thank you. Dear Minister Sredoje Nović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14220	I'm respecting the honourable MP, but this is a little unusual to say somewhat blackmailingly whether or not the minister is going to do this. When have I not been to this House constructive? And I don't think I can accept it like I've never been constructive before, and you 51 are asking me to in the next period that I'm constructive. It's not the law of Sredoje Nović, I beg you, the law is much wider, you all know that. The obvious question here is whether or not you have the political will to overcome this issue. And not the question of the profession, that's what I said before, and now I think it's a matter of politics, not a matter of profession. I, as a resolute minister, am obliged to participate in any, no matter what kind of law-making, which phase, who suggested it, I really would, I just can't believe that someone is asking me and that I'm here who needs to swear that I'm going to take part in it. So don't you think that I'm not obliged as a resolute minister to participate in the laws that you propose or anyone else, so it's in one of these procedures? So, a little bit, I have to admit that it's for me and one offensive question. I know why some people here are talking about it, so don't make me bring up other questions, too, because I had some questions on the Council of Ministers, but I won't and I can't say that here. And thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14221	Thank you. Dear Representative, Deputy Chairman Milorad Živković, Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14222	Thank you. Well, a few moments I may have forgotten to say in my discussion. One is that here it is said that there is also one proposal that came from a respected colleague, delegate Krstan Simić in the House of Peoples, and you will agree that we all have vivid, let me say, MPs in my parties and I inform you that this proposal has been withdrawn. So there is no proposal in the House of Peoples, and here we need to respect the conclusions that we ourselves have made. And we have reached conclusions on the enlarged College that, if a new law is found from the Council of Ministers, to act urgently, which we can, and to repeat here behind this pay phone, I should say, too, if behind that, hypothetically speaking, this legislative project today by the Council of Ministers will fail, I will be in favour that as soon as any other I am ready to come here to Parliament and discuss it. Don't ask the minister to promise anything, as I don't ask Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija to vote for this proposal in the Council of Ministers, so that we all discuss it here. So what we can do, to speed up the process, let us do, what is next to others, let them explain in BiH why it is up to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14223	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14224	Well, I didn't have any other way of picking up after the Honorable Minister stepped in. I am unfortunately not satisfied with the answer, because I am sure that the important minister could have provided a more complete answer to my questions. They're purely technical, and I think a tremendous amount of 52 would help. My intention was of this kind, so we understand what we're discussing so much. It's clear to me, so it's clear to me that the home number will be determined where it was decided yesterday, accepted this bill or adopted the bill, here's the one from the Council of Ministers, I guarantee it here to everyone. So the citizens we represent here won't be damaged even if we accept this bill, nor if we accept this bill. The same price, if there is one, there will be a cost, the same reference will be issued, the same building will keep that record, the same computer will be sent to the centre of the corresponding and so on. It will all be the same to me, so it is not clear where the need for this much emotion in the debate over the real technical law. That's why I asked these questions, so without intent, because I don't see, I don't see why so many policies in this law. So we've shown that we're delux masters to make a political issue out of weight, I mean, and we'd spoil the weight, let alone something else. But so I really don't see, I don't see, the other thing is that we bring, so I'm saying this, here's my political will is I'm going to accept one and another proposal. So I won't be against any proposal, given the circumstances, so it's one before and another, but I really think that they can be accepted and that nothing in this country will change except the fact that newborn children and those who haven't been able to determine the parent number so far. That's all that's gonna change. So neither BiH will go anywhere else, nor will she, they will arrange where it is determined to go elsewhere, at least that's how I understood it. And whoever has the argument that I'm to blame, I'd like him to tell me now, so that I know I'm not wrong. So here comes the minister, through distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. So we create an unnecessarily immature climate by setting each other up, calling for compromise, and setting up ultimatums. Don't do that there's no need, there's a lot of things that we can train a little bit of political stuff about, but let's try to create an atmosphere so we can solve these difficult issues too. And how do we do that if we can't do this technical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14225	I thank the honourable representative. I think the auditorium would better understand this metaphor with weight that the old home word givikt was used, to make a little joke. Dear Representative Petar Kunić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14226	Thank you, Chairman. I would accept this fact that counterpart Saša called on the minister to, but to behave in accordance with the constitution, therefore, to make a proposal in accordance with the administrative and territorial division of BiH. So there's no option, there's no variation, gentlemen dear, it's a legal question, there's a role in lex artis, a profession, but we can't relativize everything, right, life in the rule of law, basic principles. Well, here I hear some of the principles of the Dayton Agreement. Well, they're just initials, I could now talk about ten principles of the Dayton Agreement, not just one, about two. So is the principle of territoriality present in BiH? Yes, it is. There are two federal units, there are two entities, which must be respected gentlemen whether we want it or not, it's reality. And Mr. Secretary can't propose a different law, he can't. This is a legal question my colleague, this is a legal question we cannot politicize, so what we would like to submit to that pragmatic question, what you would like or I would like. It's a legal question, he's obliged to propose a law like this 53 as he suggested. Now, there we can talk about technical issues or some legal nuances, but essentially he respects the basic principle that he respects BiH's internal structure. She's changed, she's changed, she's not like before the war and so on. And by the way, gentlemen dear, can we insist so much on something, some things, about this thing being waged by war in these places, the worst thing that could happen to these places? Because of the principle of territoriality, because of the territory, that was the fundamental question. We are now bringing in, relativating the question, and reciting it, so let's do it this way, and if this is more useful, then you know what. But please, where do we live, where do we live? When this country respects its right, it will go forward, legal regulations that exist, which are now in place, when it is respected, it will be able to take a step forward, otherwise it cannot make them, because before the law everyone will be equal, where the Constitution will be respected, the laws will be respected. And not in this way to some idological flossules, I wouldn't insult, to say to the low,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14227	Replication timed out.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14228	low acrobatics try to justify something that can't be justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14229	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14230	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I thought twice before I said the next two sentences, three. First of all, here it is obvious that, in addition to the implementation of the Constitutional Court's ruling, it is trying to take advantage of the opportunity and catch in a dim area, which does not require judgment, consciousness in inter-entity lines. That's one thing. Secondly, I don't see a way out of this situation unless the High Representative reacts, so BiH citizens don't suffer. And third, that BiH's prosecutor gets involved in the whole case and then let's explain who did and who wasn't in charge of implementing the verdict. I don't see any other way out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14231	Thank you. I have no more reports, no more hearings, no more replicas, and I am closing the debate on point 7. 54 And we move to point eight, Ad. 8. Report on the functioning of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011, Council of Ministers material The BiH Council of Ministers delivered this report in the procedure on 18.02.2013 based on conclusions from the 26th session of the House of Representatives held on 19.04.2012 and the 15th session of the House held on 15.05.2012. The report proposes the adoption of the following conclusions: 1. A report on the functioning of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system in BiH is being adopted in 2011. 2. Authors and other rightholders who are not in the collective exercise system are called on to be invited to step up their activities with a view to meeting the conditions for granting a collective exercise permit. 3. It is necessary to engage relevant institutions in BiH to establish the true and complete financial operations of collective organisations that have been withdrawn from the permit. 4. The BiH Institute of Intellectual Property will continue to inform the BiH Council of Ministers and the public about the functioning of the system, the collective exercise of copyright and related rights in BiH through its regular work reports. The relevant Constitutional Commission delivered its Opinion on the Report on 13/03/2013. The report has been passed and I propose to the House that he be adopted. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14233	So, the report provides an opportunity to look at the situation in this area, but unfortunately it is the 2011 Report and now the question is whether there have been any major changes in the past time, so that this report is practically no longer a reflection of the real situation. Unfortunately, from a procedural point of view and from the Council of Ministers, and even our commission, the Council of Ministers even said in the accompanying act that it was information. The proposed conclusions or the measures proposed by the Institute here were not stated. If you look more thoroughly at this material and the contributions that have been given to us, we will see that this is a significant, significant area, significant rights, significant money and rather non-transparent flows of that money, which is certainly worth a more serious approach. The fact is that the Institute has taken a number of these measures and adopted sublegal acts, so here it has even resorted to the withdrawal of work permits, but unfortunately I did not get the impression from this information that the Law has fully fulfilled its purpose, i.e. that it has achieved its objectives, because the situation in the area, at least according to the Institute's findings, remains the same. 55 I answered the most about the next one. So these conclusions that have been proposed, we have no opinion of them by our commission or even, which is important, strongly, by the Council of Ministers. So, and I'm glad that our chairman apostrophysed them, because the essence and purpose of the debate in general about this report is that there is possibly something in it that we do. So I don't think these conclusions are going to make any big contribution, but here's because there aren't any others that obviously we're going to stay on it. Here, I had a need to express regret that in previous stages things were not, when it came to these conclusions, more seriously done. But in any case, we will support this report and the proposed conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14234	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14235	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. This is a question, or perhaps one of the few questions, where we as a state have arranged a particular area and then decided to follow it through reports of this kind every year. This is the Parliament's conclusion from the last call and we follow it in this session, and every year we receive a report from the Institute for Intellectual Property, or the Council of Ministers of BiH. What can therefore be seen from all these reports, and also from this report, so it is not information, it is explained at the session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, it is an error in the letter of the Council of Ministers, it is the report of the Institute of Intellectual Property and Implementation, we now have two laws governing this area, and it is a collective protection of copyright. So, as the report shows that BiH is making progress in this area, of course not far from what it should be, and what we expect, and what we have prescribed by law, but each time it starts with the first step. We last time at last, last year's debate had the opportunity to hear and some organizations dealing with protection, and the authors, I loved it this time, were present in the hall of an organization that took that right away, to hear what they had to say, but here's the Commission disagreed, and of course it didn't mind that we did our job, but I am obliged to say it here in this parliamentary hall. I support this report. I think the Institute of Intellectual Property is doing its job responsibly, and of course I'm not going in, nor can any of us enter, nor should it enter into whom the Institute of Intellectual Property will grant permission, withdraw the permit. This can only be a matter of law enforcement and a question of responsibility for those who apply the law and any legal mechanisms that are provided for in the law and the laws of BiH on the road or in the process. So, with this I support, of course, this report and I suggest that the House adopt it. And here, I encourage everyone in BiH to do what they do to standardise this area in BiH as soon as possible and to say that it is quite satisfactory. At this point, it's not like that. That's it, thank you. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14236	Thank you. Honorable representative Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, thank you for reminding us of these conclusions, because then we can say that in this case we do not have too much reason to complain that the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly are not being fulfilled. It is therefore necessary to thank the Institute and the Council of Ministers for at least one part, which is that they provided us with the 2011 Report, following that summary report for 2005 to 2010. Mr Belkić asked if something on the ground changed in 2012? Yeah, but up there. It is, in fact, that this is one of those areas in which legal provisions are extremely precise in the world and are carried out strongly. So intellectual property is inalienable property and it is something that is not questionable, anywhere in the world where legal provisions are passed they are as such and respected. We can say that in this area we have progress in legislation, but we cannot say in any way that we have progress in how this legislation is implemented and whether there may be no possible room for it to be improved and complemented in accordance with all the problems we see in practice and seen on the ground. Allow me to refer a little bit to an area that is the area of collective rights in music activity, which is very important for the BiH state because of the number of authors of the work that is being protected within it and possible opportunities for the BiH state to have, as well as all countries in the world, certain revenues. It should be noted, therefore, that the collective exercise of copyright and related rights can only be achieved if the conditions are met that the legal person specializes only in this activity, that he meets all the conditions prescribed by law and that he has obtained permission from the Institute for Intellectual Property of BiH. What I particularly point out is that a collective organisation is founded by authors, it is in a mandated relationship with authors and does all the jobs on its own behalf and for their account, which is one of the most important characteristics of the entire system of collective rights. What we have in BiH is that we currently have an organisation that has initiated the constitutional process, i.e. an administrative dispute before the Court of BiH against the Institute which has denied it the approval to work, and that the same institution has been denied the right to represent them and the authors, so those who only have the right to empower you and to give you the opportunity to do so. The Institute issued a work license last year to the Association of BiH Authors AMUS, which numbers 450 authors who protect more than 4.5 thousand works that are in the international database. I will remind you only that, let's say, if BiH was able to make revenues through certain opportunities and rights relating only to the broadcasting of these 5,000 works to almost 40,000 registered possible users' facilities in BiH, it is about millions of funds for the BiH state and for the authors. Here is a parallel with Croatia, in Croatia, for example, each of the small, each of the small catering facilities for music broadcasting has to pay a paushal of 380 kuna per month, which is about 100 KM. So now calculate how many over the past 20 years, let's say, we haven't charged in these 40,000 facilities on BiH territory, and we haven't achieved that right either for the authors or for the state of BiH. I find it absolutely inadmissible that it can happen that the organisation that 57 has taken the licence away from the Institute in this way treats both the Institute and the authors, because what produced this behavior of Sine Qua non to name them is that after the start of the administrative dispute and they have created a confusion with the users, a collective realization organisation in other countries and the International Confederation of societies, authors and composers regarding the implementation of this solution. The result of this is that collective organisations from other countries have delayed the conclusion of the Treaty on reciprocal representation as long as the BiH Court makes a decision in the administrative dispute. The situation produced by Sine Qua Nona has an unfavourable impact on AMUS as a collective organisation in full capacity, especially with regard to representing foreign authors in BiH and our authors outside our country. I would like to call on the BiH Institute of Intellectual Property to organise a public debate on which to give opportunity to all interested, all involved, and all those who should be interested in this area, to discuss existing legal solutions, and their possible upgrades and additions, and to end up bringing into full order this extremely important area, which, as well as fellow Džaferović, well said that on the legal side, we seem to have good conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14238	Thank you. I have to say, we don't have a quorum, so I'm taking an hour's break. It can be used for lunch. So I'll see you here ten to three. Thank you very much. / I ask my colleagues and colleagues to take their seats so we can begin the session. As far as I can tell, we have a quorum. Fellow Members and colleagues, please take your seats. Time for a break has elapsed. Honourable representative Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14240	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14241	Excuse me, colleagues and colleagues for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14242	Give me some silence so I can say something.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14243	Let's let colleague Magazinović and Džaferović begin the debate. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14244	So today we have here on the agenda a report on the functioning of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system in BiH. The first thing when you take and when you encounter these problems is that no one recently has properly protected those who are the creators of something that is intellectual property. Everyone here, and the last resident in BiH, is clear on what is right over material goods and each of them will object if someone steals something from him, even if something from the yard is a waste, not let alone if someone takes his car or his house. However, if someone takes your right to a written book and copys that book, you have nothing of it, which is basically what happens, if someone copies the software that is collokiously called pirate software and which is sold publicly until recently and can be found for sure and now, if someone is normal, and most normal takes to listen without compensation for a piece of music, then no one has suffered any consequences. Niko one's protected anyone until recently. In 2010, we passed two laws in both homes of this House. I am, I have answered the discussion precisely because I have made my contribution to the adoption of these two laws and I must say, thanks to the patience and understanding and knowledge of my colleague, Šefik Džaferović, we have managed to finally come out and adopt these laws to satisfaction and to those who are users and whose rights are being protected, and also to what we have been given in accordance with international regulations. This law was one of the conditions of the European Partnership for BiH because we cannot join the EU thinking that we can take what we like without paying the right price. The moment these laws were passed, Mrs. Vignjević received her commendation and we received rare commendations in the Progress Report, as we usually get criticism in these reports that we did something, but here in this segment we got it. Here, we have today's report on how this is done on the ground and how these two laws are implemented. Here's because I'm kind of involved in tracking and what's going on here, I'm happy to say you're seeing shifts. I'm sure it'll take a lot of time to move things the way it would be normal and how it should be ultimately, to set up all mechanisms, to protect everyone's copyrights. But here, it's already visible and naked with the eye that we don't have, that the system is being edited, and that's what you can see from this report. We have had very aggressive organizations that have given themselves the right that they are the only copyright protectors of some categories of authors and we see from these reports that they are trying to judicially, not meeting the conditions, to continue to retain that right, which means that, that it is a very lucrative job that has not been recognised so far. The Institute of Intellectual Property is in this period, and I'm sorry that we don't have a 2012 report, I hope we have it, let's see how it progresses further, because it's a small period from 2010 to 2011 to see these positive shifts and see how it moves better. That's when the conclusion was made, when these laws were passed, that the implementation of these laws would be monitored, and we see that there was a shift. Here, I recommend to this Parliament that we adopt this report and these conclusions that have been made in the report and that we insist that we also receive a 2012 report so that we can discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14245	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. 59 We move to the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2012 and Working Plan of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of BiH's police structure for 2013 On 12.02.2013, the Independent Committee submitted the 2012 Work Report and the 2013 Work Plan for adoption in accordance with Article 7(1)(b) and (e) of the Act on the Independent and Supervisory Authorities of the BiH Police Structure. The BiH Joint Commission for Defence and Security submitted its Opinion on 13 March 2012, the 2012 report and the 2013 Work Plan were adopted and sent to the follow-up procedure. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14247	Just a few words, considering you've already said that part. Therefore, the Joint Commission on Defence and Security also unanimously supported the 2012 Working Report of the Independent Committee and the Independent Committee's 2013 Work Plan. So, since there was no choice in 2012 for new managers and deputy managers of police bodies in BiH, then there was that part, the job did not practically happen. But there is something I would like to point out anyway, which is, this is this good co-operation between the Independent Committee and the police agencies from which, which is seen in the Report and something I would like to, in short,... a comment to suggest to Mr. Krunić. The part called co-operation with international organisations states that the work of the Independent Committee has been monitored and representatives of the OHR attended all sessions. I ask you, Mr. Žiko Krunić, to next time invite perhaps the EU Special Representative's Office to help bring this country's legislation closer to the European, or to agree with the AKI, and never in any way call an OHR representative who, as you know, is something anachronous and we are waiting for him to finish his stay in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14248	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. We're going to the 10th item of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Report on work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2012 21.02.2013. The Committee on Citizens' Appeals submitted the Report to the House for adoption and, in accordance with Article 15(1)(f) and Article 19(1) (d) of the Law on the Independent and Supervisory 60 Authorities of the BiH Police Structure, and Article 4(1)(f) and Article 5(f) of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the Citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The BiH Joint Defence and Security Commission submitted its opinion on 13 March 2012, the report was adopted and sent to the follow-up procedure. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14250	So, in this part we should point out one important thing, which is that something that was identified as a problem 8 years ago is still an acute problem, and that is that, as it stands here in the report, it can't be said that no border crossing that there is video surveillance that works immaculately. It's a very alarming situation since we know what's going on in the unconditional border crossings, as far as it's not a distraction for people to pass, and especially for good. And we think the Security Minister would have to deal with this, given that the Joint Defence and Security Commission has already raised issues about the reorganisation of individual institutions in the Security Sector. We expect the minister to have this as a priority and important task to address this problem, because it is a challenge that awaits him anyway, especially if Croatia's recent entry into the EU is in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14251	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Bursać, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14252	Thank you, Chairman. Oh, here, Mrs. Dušanka mostly said, I was just getting ready for this surveillance video. I think we can really agree with Mrs. Dušanka's condition is alarming. When you take that to some border crossing and where there's video surveillance it is, so that material is stored somewhere around 24 hours, about three days, somewhere for three months, so there's definitely no rule about it all and where it's definitely not defined properly and in what way it's supposed to work. It's on one side. And yet on the other hand, here in these materials it says that it is available to customs officers, or to people who are there on the spot and that they can exclude, or delete any of that material. So I definitely don't know what it's for if anyone can get into that part and delete, or rule out what he likes or doesn't like. So there are really serious problems, and that's a serious problem for competent institutions to deal with. So, it would be best if all the border crossings had video surveillance, but let's at least those who have, today is not some big bogeyman, so it's united into a common computer base, that it's kept by a certain period of time, that it's known who can get into it, as well as in what way, what it's for, and when it's excluded, it means that video material and so on. That's it, thank you. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14253	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 11th agenda, Ad. 11. BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner's 2012 report This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner's Law on 22.02.2013 was submitted by the parliamentary military commissioner to the 2012 Labour Report. The BiH Joint Defence and Security Commission submitted its opinion on 13 March 2013. The report was adopted and referred to further procedure. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14255	Thank you very much. First of all, I want to say that as the years go by and how we get used to the institution of the parliamentary military commissioner, the reports are getting more and more content, and better. So, within this grand report of 30 pages, anyone who wishes to know the state of human rights and freedom of military persons and cadets, which is the primary task of the military commissioner, can get to know the conditions of life and work in the barracks of the Armed Forces, where the military commissioner went, and especially where he suggested to the Joint Commission for Defence and Security to go, can get to know the recommendations of the parliamentary military commissioner for removing the identified shortcomings in the work of the Armed Forces. This is one huge job that not only deals with the military commissioner's institution, but also the Joint Defence and Security Commission. It would be good if the defence ministry received these reports in good faith and made at least part of these recommendations proposed by the parliamentary military commissioner, adopted by the Joint Commission and adopted both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, as this would significantly change the situation in the Armed Forces. So far, we still have a lot of things that seem untraceable by the Ministry of Defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14256	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14257	I thank the chairman. 62 I must first say that I am pleasantly surprised because I thought this report would pass the maltenes without discussion and at a time after lunch and after the already melted energy on some other issues and here and the list itself speaks of the great attention and interest that this report has caused here in Parliament, at least among parliamentarians. And here, let me at first express the satisfaction that there is, as the report says here, a very good co-operation between the military commissioner and the Commission headed by Mrs Majkić. I, what I really needed to mention, although someone might expect me personally or from someone from the opposition to criticise such a report, but I really cannot criticise it, I must mention that it was of particular importance to me the first way in which this report, methodologically, was conceived, especially with the opening words of the parliamentary military commissioner. And here, maybe I'll just make one flaw, and that's the closing word after these recommendations, right? I would like to mention that it is really of particular importance for all of us, for all of the state institutions, that the military commissioner's institution exists and that it has performed and is doing a very important duty in these segments listed in this Report. The only thing that I'm missing here, and it might be good to hear from the military commissioner, which is possible, is on issues that are very important for and context of our integration into NATO, as well as the resolution of key issues within BiH -- whether the military commissioner is involved in a fundamental barrier, to say, or to remove the basic barrier, which is the recording of military assets to the state, state institutions, or the Ministry of Defence, and whether it can possibly contribute to future activities to speed up the work so that we can finally remove all barriers to joining the MAP, which is a very important step forward for the future? But here, once again, it was my pleasure to see this well-conceived report, drawn up with one single flaw, and that is the lack of that closing word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14258	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, and I would like to join in that the report is very high-quality and well done, but nothing is worth it if the report is done in quality and points to all the weaknesses and failures that occur if there is no resolution of the gap and the problems this report faces. As with other institutions and organisations, there are certain problems here and there are no way of saying that they are more pronounced than others. But let's just say I'm curious when certain questions are raised whether, and when no activity is taken, and it's evident that the law or the labour regulations have been broken, I am not, it is unacceptable that the Council of Ministers or anyone in charge does not take action against those who violate this procedure? Secondly, it is unacceptable, as I have noticed, that certain settings, where they are temporarily placed for four years, are allowed for a maximum period of one year. Who puts himself above the law? Instead of proposing that the law be changed, or let's say disrespecting decisions and so forth. It is unacceptable that 63 of us in barracks where our soldiers are located do not have heating or that food is unquality or that, for example, food is served by someone who does not have a health check. Well, that's, say, inconceivable things that shouldn't happen in any way. You know, that someone shares food without having, that no sanitary examination has been performed, that they haven't conducted a sanitary examination, so it's unacceptable, it's nowhere to be found. Secondly, it is unacceptable for medical personnel, who are scheduled to work there in Sanitation, who are not trained to handle arms, to stand guard. I accept that when gender equality is in the office to have the right and, or ladies to be together, they must be trained in arms handling so that they can be directed to the guard. Whether it's a lack, I don't know, a soldier or anything, it can't justify them. And what I'm finally saying is, it's that I don't really like that our members who go out to countries like, almost this team that went to Afghanistan, and they're said to be their unquality departments. Well, at least we could be so polite and feel obliged to keep these departments, clothes, shoes and equipment at the level of other countries, because this also leaves a picture of BiH leaving us, to tell you the truth, not to laugh, and that these soldiers who go there with pride can be represented as coming from BiH. But imagine if at the first step his suit was ripped out, on the first set, it was a disaster. I don't want to talk about whether or not the rules are followed, why and whether our soldiers who went on a peace mission are supposed to be first on the battle line, or on the welcome line. If that's the case, then you should say before you leave. I haven't been able to figure out if they were ready for it. This says that the Public Procurement Act must be a little stricter, not to accept whoever brings anything, even from any non-ligitimate house certificate for the correctness of the equipment it offers. And I don't think we've paid anything cheaper than the most expensive uniform used by other countries. For these reasons, I commend the Commissioner for doing a well-quality report, which is no different from some of the other reports that looked more like a record to me than a report, but here I hope that everyone will learn some lessons from this and say what should be done and discovered, that these shortcomings will be addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14260	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14261	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Let me repeat a few sentences that I said at the Commission's session when it comes to this report. I think it's important that we discuss these reports at home, that they don't go through that kind of kicking. I think that if there were any dilemmas when the Law on the establishment of such an institution within the BiH defence system was passed that today, several years after its operation, there was actually no further dilemma as to whether we needed one of these institutions or not. I think that back in a few years, the functioning of this 64 institution has shown that it is justified and that a common system of BiH is needed, not only of the defence system. What I would particularly like to say today is the issue of unedited standards, primarily political responsibilities for non-compliance with recommendations that have been highlighted and the measures proposed by all the Ombudsmans in BiH. Our parliamentary military commissioner is actually the Ombudsman for the protection of human rights in the Armed Forces, but I would extend it to all the Ombudsmans in BiH. The system must function on impeccable respect for individual human rights. And when you have impeccable respect for individual human rights, then you certainly have the functioning and overall system. I think that BiH needs to do much more to build standards, primarily political responsibilities in the face of non-compliance with recommendations and measures highlighted in reports by all the Ombudsmans and by the parliamentary military commissioner. In this direction, I want to encourage all those who are engaged in the protection of individual human rights, in this case the parliamentary military commissioner, to insist that individual human rights of members of the Armed Forces are fully respected in accordance with the Constitution and the laws on which their work is founded. I welcome this report, I will, of course, support it, and I have stood up just to give support and encouragement to continue this work. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14262	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14263	Here is a small risk that, to put it this way, it does not go too far in some things, of course supporting the report, as counterpart Azra Hadžiahmetović said. However, I want two, three things just to say, so there are activities that I and the members of the Joint Commission have witnessed and which are not listed here, which speak, together with what is in the Report, which speak how and how should be done when a new institution is set up. So our current military commissioner can be an example of how to work when a new institution is being set up. Be assured even the military commissioner did not start with anything better than a number of other institutions, but he managed to cope. So he didn't write to Parliament at all times and asked for, listed the problems, and so on, he practically solved it. So, I wanted to point this out really out of my conviction that this is an example of how you should turn yourself in to work and believe in the institution where you work and then the result sure that... It is very important that we support the implementation and importance and importance of his recommendations as well as Dušanka. So, once again support the report and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14264	Thank you. Dear representative Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. Here you go. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14265	Thank you very much. Let me say hello again. And here, in front of me, as a member of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, which is working closely with the parliamentary military commissioner, I am pleased to say that this work has always been at the highest level possible and to join everyone who has said that this is a true institution and that this institution of a parliamentary military commissioner is not for myself, this is what I wanted in particular to underline, but that it has a very good co-operation with the Joint Defence and Security Commission and that the information flows from the Commission towards the Commissioner and vice versa, and that we are jointly trying to solve the problems that are truly very much in the defence sector. So here I am saying, I want to commend this report as something that is good and clearly written and that this is much better than it was in the previous period, which doesn't mean that we didn't support the previous ones, but to see that the institution is progressing and that it works well and that those who do it really know their job. And once again, the SDP Club will join the adoption of this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14266	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14267	Here, let me spoil this idyll around the parliamentary military commissioner. Very briefly, so this institution is not eternal and at one point what Mr. Džaferović said is not excluded from us asking for the abolition of the institution. And we're going to ask for that moment if the same principle applies to other institutions formed, don't ask how they function, as in chess, as those chess players say and move, and that means here, if the recommendations of the military commissioner are not respected, that institution will lose importance and I don't think anyone will say then and it still needs to survive. It is known how it works, it is known who can maintain here and in what way the institution and if these recommendations are not respected, of course we will not, this is not the established institution for the sake of the institution, but for the introduction of one, which we accepted then and I was in, sir, we were then visionaries of this co-operation between SNSD and SDS, we then accepted Mr. Šiljegović, who was the SDS star, the truth of the crasher at that moment, and we were there to not fully accept it down and here we did, so we were already thinking about this collaboration that in the next period, we supported the man and it was, here's the investment, which would say those from SDP, investment in people, I mean, in some way. And here it turned out to be, it turns out that one of the former members of the SDS could be one model state official. And we didn't have that kind of complex to name. But please, I end it, when it comes to institutions, we stand at the point where every institution that doesn't or loses its purpose, that we need as people to discuss its functioning and in some way, and we have, we know where we're stuck that don't work properly, and we don't have a problem with institutions that, as a matter of fact, work, but it's not for all time. Thank you. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14268	Thank you. Dear Representative Darko Babalj, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14269	Although drago is here before I say hello, but one thing I've been thinking about, I was thinking about what to say, but after this Drago has always got to make a comment, but here I'm going to keep myself around the parachutes of these, these, those, like this, things like that. And we think the report is quality, so it has nothing to do with some of the things that you've all been talking about here, but what we've been saying here is that what's worrying is the disaster in the Armed Forces of BiH. And I think that we all, the ones who answered for the discussion, should talk a little bit more about this report, what's written here, because what's written is what we all need to be worried about. Because I don't know, in these unannounced visits by Mr. Boško Šiljegović to this one army, the second, third, fifth, what man saw, did we even realize and whether we actually read what this says or just so declaredly supported this. What I've read is that the situation is worrying and it's a shame that there's no one here on the left to give us any answers. But I think that we are seriously in BiH in the problem of the Armed Forces of BiH. So I don't want to be a politician and read you what you've all probably read, but I think we should all go out today worried after this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14270	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14271	So this is the Military Commissioner's report. His unannounced visits were signaled to the Joint Defence and Security Commission and we made the same visits he did and convinced himself of the same things he found, and confirmed at the Joint Defence Commission sessions, and security and confirmed at the sessions of this House. So I remind my colleague Babalj, he probably didn't read when it was necessary to read what the conclusions of the Joint Commission were and how the proposed overcoming this situation was envisaged. It's a disaster. No response to repairs. The Joint Commission has defined a bunch of recommendations the Department of Defense needs to make. Will we be ready to talk about these people? Are we going to be ready to raise the issue of work at all, the Ministry of Defense, all the problems? Will we be able to talk about them and say they don't know what kind of property they have yet? Since 2006, when the Defense Act was passed, they still don't know what their assets are. Are we going to be ready to talk about all the thefts and carrying out and selling weapons, ammunition and mine explosives? That would be good if this Parliament did. But it's not done through the military commissioner's report, but through the Joint Defence and Security Commission's report that you've had, I can see that you have an observation and that you're even making some concrete conclusion, preferably to change things. Thank you. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14272	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14273	Here, I have to agree with what Mr. Babalj said and I think that's the point. So it's impossible to leave behind a story about the good work of a parliamentary military commissioner, and on the other hand a huge problem in the Armed Forces. If, in some ways, the Armed Forces do not solve the problems, it is impossible to be satisfied only by the Commissioner’s finding. If the Armed Forces fail, do you think they'll remain commissioner? He won't. So whoever, this is in a direct relationship, and I think Mr. Babalj noticed that well. It's true that this is about the Report, but it's true that a series of problems and functions of Commissioners and all of us together are that we're dealing with things in the Armed Forces, not that we're doing ourselves and doing, that's that we're only in our segment, it's connected. And I think this report is only going to help us look at that situation even more and now after this, those who are on this side are in charge of handling it. Of course, on this point, we no longer have anything to address the Commissioner because he has finished his part of the work, but we should imagine this because this is not an isolated case for ourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14274	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to point 12, Ad. 12. Report by the Committee of the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Mr Senad Šepić on the examination of the requests by Saša Magazinović, Senad Šepić, Mirsad Đugum, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović and Beriz Belkić for the examination of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Single Parent Number by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, which reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives declares that within 30 days at the latest, in cases of proceedings concerning decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH, the Council of Ministers shall prepare and submit to the parliamentary procedure amendments to the laws which exclusively treat the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH The House College did not agree on this proposal for a conclusion from the 43rd session, held on 28.02.2013. You got the report. There's no discussion here. Moving to point 13, 68 Ad. 13. The appointment of the Ad hoc committee for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications – Proposers: SDS Club representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14277	Well, there's not much to discuss here, we're aware of all the situations we're in. Here's what we suggest is one conclusion, just to read it. So, the debate on item 13 of the agenda – Ad hoc committee for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications until the first next session of the House of Representatives is postponed. The BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with delivering a proposal from members of the Ad hoc commission to elect members of the Agency's Council.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14278	Thank you. We don't, and we have a replica of her, the esteemed representative of Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. More intervention. The material says that this material was delivered to us under the number 01-29-148/13 of 14.03.3013, so if it's 1,000 years from now, then hopefully we'll get it all, so my colleague Babalj doesn't have to propose conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-03-14-0.u14280	Thank you. So we have the conclusion of a colleague named Babalj in writing, and I don't know if all the representatives on the benches have it, but here's what I'm going to do again. So I ask the House to make a statement on this conclusion of Mr. Babalj's esteemed representative. Prepare to vote. You're voting now. 69 I find that, with 30 votes in favour, without votes against and one abstention, with enough entity majority, we have adopted the conclusion of MP Darko Babalj. And since we've exhausted the agenda and the debate, I'm scheduled to vote in 15 minutes. Here's the conclusion of the College for 20 minutes. In 20 minutes, I'd like you to meet me for a vote. [[PAUZA]] I ask my colleagues and colleagues to take their seats so they can start voting. My colleagues and colleagues, we approach the vote. We are voting on point 1. - The adoption of minutes 43. Sessions of the House of Representatives. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 35 votes for, without, without abstention, with enough entity majority, we have adopted a record. Moving to point 3. – Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on Amendments and Representatives Darko Babalj's proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH. We're voting on the amendment proposal in the second round. The amendment reads – The Implementation Unit headquarters... is in the town of East Sarajevo, the municipality of East Ilija. Prepare to vote. Vote now. We have 18 for, 15 against, 4 abstentions, we don't have enough entity majority, and we don't actually have 19 against. The amendment has been passed. [[Common discussion]]
