ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19356	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 61st session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting by the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from the session was justified by Ambassador Emir Kabil. According to the Service's information, 30 MPs are present at this time. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. When it comes to changes and additions to the session agenda, I would like to mention the following. On the agenda are added point 4. The request of Ambassador Mirsad Đugum to consider the proposal for a law on the availability of immovable military assets under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. Point 13. Consider the proposal to conclude the House of Representatives' Investigation Commission to identify possible irregularities and abuses and conditions at the Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH. Point 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the cross-border programme Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina under the 2012 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (Centralised Management). Point 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Czech Republic on crime co-operation, in particular terrorism, illegal drug trafficking and psychotropic substances and organised crime. In point 1, the minutes of the 60th session of the House of Representatives were left out because of the objective inability for it to be produced within such a short period of time, because this session did not, or because the previous session was not completed in the intended time. Point 5 has been removed from the previous agenda. Proposal for a Law on the Rights of Cake Victims – Proposed by Members Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić, at the request of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, because the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples 2 is missing, which is necessary in the event that the legislator is an MP or commission of the House. The deadline for delivering Opinions on the principles of the bill has been extended to the next session of the House. Point 7. Proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading), at the request of the Joint Defence and Security Commission in accordance with Article 102 paragraph 3 and Article 104a) 2. Rules of Procedure. The deadline for delivering Opinions on the principles of the bill has been extended to the next session of the House. Point 9. The BiH presidency's decision to appoint a commander of the 4th Infantry Brigade of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces since 05.12.2013, also at the request of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security, because the Commission's meeting was not held due to lack of quorum. Point 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on Co-operation in the veterinary field, at the request of the Foreign Affairs Commission, because of the absence of a representative of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Before we move to a debate on the agenda, we need to resolve one previous issue, and it is related to the proposal for a resolution on the Council Decision of the Regulatory Agency for Communications on the shorting of the time allowed for advertising in public radio service programmes in BiH, proposed by MPs Denis Bećirović, Saša Magazinović, Ante Domazet, Mirsad Đugum and Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Namely, in accordance with Article 148(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, we need to be clear whether this motion for a resolution will be referred to the committee responsible. So I put the motion to refer the resolution to the committee responsible. It's the Transport and Communications Commission. If we don't accept it, it stays on the agenda today. Please prepare to vote on this agenda item. Vote now. So, at the request of a few clubs, we'll repeat this vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19357	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19358	Come on, come on in.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19359	Let me get this straight about the vote. So we're voting on whether to go to the Commission, if we're against it, then it's being considered today, right? So who wants to be considered today's vote against, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19360	You got it right. 3 Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. 15 for, 15 against. The proposal to refer this to the committee responsible has not received the necessary majority, so we will consider it at the House meeting today, with the note of the secretary that this has been delivered to all MPs on time. So we're going to classify this as a part of the agenda today. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. A letter from Dušanka Majkić applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19361	...correction, Chairman. You said the point, former point nine, was removed because there was no quorum at the defense committee session. That's not true. The Commission was not even scheduled because there was no possibility that this would happen during religious holidays. So no session was scheduled, so there was no quorum, but was not scheduled at all and will be held in January. For the next session, we'll have it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19362	So I don't argue that the facts really stand. I've been informed by the secretary and service that that's the reason. But if that's the reason I think it's correct that we know the real reason. Thank you. Replica, MP Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19363	Well, I, the chairman, will have a similar occasion, just to perhaps suggest that the formulations change. So it says here that the earlier point 5 was removed from the agenda at the request of the Joint Commission on Human Rights. It should be clear here, this is the second time that this formulation appears, this point has not been considered at all on the Commission for Human Rights because the Commission has not even been in session. Therefore, it was not taken off the agenda at the request of the Commission but was not maintained by the Commission and did not even consider this item of the agenda. Therefore, if there is no report, the Commission shall remove the automaticism from the agenda, but such a formulation that it is at the request of the Commission shall associate it to something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19364	I thank you for this additional clarification. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19365	Well, I'm just saying that it wouldn't be the Commission's fault, just to say that according to the Rules of Procedure and the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples, it is up to them to declare themselves on this law. The constitutional committee of the House of Nations did not sit, did not deliver its opinions to the Joint Commission, so that we could not do so. _________(?) 4 [[no microphone turned on]] We didn't have that kind of information, nor did we get their opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19367	Ambassador Beriz Belkić, debate on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19368	Yes, it is, around this resolution. We have, as I recall, Mr. Živković is there, and one kind of conclusion, that is, one kind of practice that all initiatives and such documents go in principle towards commissions. I had absolutely no dream that it would happen today, nor did I bring that material with me. And on what basis do you put it in the agenda? I don't think it makes sense. And I'm asking the promoters and those of you who insist on leaving this for the next session to prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19369	So, I didn't want to interrupt my distinguished colleague Belkić, but this was a vote, and it's going to be on the agenda today. So before that, we talked about it at the College sessions and realized that we had done so in previous cases. We've also received official interpretation and confirmation of that. Salko Sokolović reported on the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19370	My proposal, chairman, is to speed up the work, to keep matters in writing, not to waste two hours on it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19371	Here, we'll put this proposal on when we get to that point, so I agree. I hereby conclude the list of persons registered for the hearing and conclude that today's 61st session of the House has its next agenda. What are you looking for? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What are you looking for? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19375	Here's a little bit. I may be wrong, but here's the secretary to explain to me, the 58th session, pages 4 and 5, we have a question asked by Saša Magazinović, and sub-questions 12 and then there's a series of questions as if all the questions asked by Saša Magazinović were up to 20. I have a feeling that the names of people who asked questions are missing here or that Magazinović has asked 20 questions according to the Rules of Procedure probably.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19376	counterpart Belkić has raised the dilemma, but at the end of the discussion he gave the correct answer to the question. 7 I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to, exactly, this second point, Ad. 2. Parliamentary Issues (a) Comments on Answers received (b) New Parliamentary Issues By today's session, MPs had answered the questions asked: Zijad Jagodić, Nermin Purić, Beriz Belkić, Aleksandra Pandurević, Petar Kunić, Senad Šepić, Niko Lozančić, Anto Domazet, Dušanka Majkić, Saša Magazinović, Drago Kalabić, Božo Ljubić, Milorad Živković, Slavko Jovičić, Amir Fazlić, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Lazar Prodanović, Mato Franjičević, Saša Bursać. Messages on asked parliamentary questions were received: Dušanka Majkić and Zvonko Jurišić. You heard the recommendation of fellow Sokolović at this point, but here he comes for a word, so here you go. Here you go, fellow Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19378	Here, let me just fill in what I just said. I thought that because of the session's timing and, here are the New Year's holidays ahead, in order to solve matter more efficiently and more importantly, I suggest that we ask MPs questions in writing and that the comments and answers remain for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19379	... to make a statement about this proposal. [[Disable microphone]] Who's in? Comrade Đugum, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19380	I suggest we keep this. One who wants to self-initiately submit in writing without being denied any possibility of asking a question at this session. This is already the second, or third session to cancel. If we're going to, then let's completely eliminate the parliamentary issues, so that it's all in writing, that we absolutely don't ask questions. To the mass of answers, or questions we have not received, we witness every day, not to get within the regular time limit, that we do not have time to respond to these answers or come very late answers. And I don't think we're absolutely in front of the SBB that this point, what they're saying, is being abolished in continuity.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19381	Thank you. We're moving on to comments on the answers we've received. MP, vice president, Božo Ljubić. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19382	It's written here, I've got the answer, actually this I can't treat as an answer. I'm not satisfied with that. The question is...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19383	May I ask you, colleague Ljubić has a word. Here you go, buddy. The rest of you don't give yourself a word before they get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19384	Thank you very much. So it was written here that I received an answer, and in fact I cannot treat this as an answer, given that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs replied that it had implemented some procedure, and in fact my question was primarily addressed to the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, and it concerned appointed ambassadors in this presidency's term, the rank of the lists and the stage of elections in the bodies of the Council of Europe, in particular five bodies. So I'm not happy with the answer. I expect an answer. If I don't get a quality answer by the next session, I'll do my own best to come up with the data in a different way, so I'll comment here.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19385	We have two more comments on the answers. Ambassador Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19386	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, I welcome you all together. I thank all those who have answered the last 15 days or three weeks of my questions. However, what I have specifically singled out are three answers, and above all, it is one of the parliamentary issues that concerned – what our diplomatic representations of BiH, or in the world, do specifically and individually during their appointments and agremanes in certain countries. I must thank the General Secretariat who certainly made a description nice, but I agree that certain embassies have certainly made certain efforts and efforts to justify their justification and their position, at least in this House. However, let me just tell you some countries that, let's say, our embassies, like ambassadors to Romania, Norway, Macedonia, Slovakia and America, have held only 2.3 talks during one year. And in... contact they got the impression that there was a genuine desire and intention to co-operate with BiH. I don't think this really deserves an excuse for these positions, and I think the Foreign Ministry should take care of that. The second answer that I also got me a little bit, I didn't want in the previous part when we discussed the Budget, and it refers to the situation in the Armed Forces. In response, which I asked the Minister of Armed Forces about, first of all, logistics and material-technical means, I received an answer that I was partially satisfied with, although I had previously known what it was about. However, we have certain locations...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19387	Time's up, two minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19388	Please one more minute and I won't. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19389	It can't be a minute, it can't be. A kolega, Sokolović, suggested that there are not two minutes, but here we were. MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19390	Here's a little bit. I got what I asked for from the Secretariat. And only colleagues to know that 56 pages of questions we haven't received answers to and 13 pages of initiatives launched, listed initiatives launched. That's disturbing. If this Parliament holds to itself he will do something to make an analysis of all this, to see which are... answers and no longer make sense, but those who remain in debt should be executed. And another thing, that after 10 months, I also get a response to the topic – analysis and state in the DKP network and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it was said that the Presidency and Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, had tasked the Foreign Ministry to deliver to Parliament an analysis of the situation at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which said was delivered on 06.06.2013. This analysis has never come to Parliament, and I demand that this analysis be finally delivered. Obviously, there is a reason why the analysis was not delivered to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19391	Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19392	Well, you, Mr. Chairman, have also read my name that I have received an answer. It's true that I got the answer but now in the break. Since it's a very complex matter, I'm unable to comment now on the answers, so I'm retaining my right to the next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19393	Let's just check it out. So that's this answer from the 55th session of the House. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19394	Yeah, now I've got the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19395	All right, all right. The word has been made by Vice-President Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19396	My colleagues and colleagues, the chairman. In fact, at the Budget debate, we have shown how much we ourselves hold on to and how much on the basis of this and the Council of Ministers is holding on to us and that in one Parliament questions and answers, which is a very important topic, this is how it ends up just talking about us. Therefore, we should not be angry with anyone else. We should be angry with ourselves and simply end this mandate in this way. In this style, the question I asked was addressed to the Ministry of Justice and the question was – when the Law on the High Court Prosecutor's Council of BiH, whose work version 10 has already been discussed in the Council of Ministers, here in front of MPs, was given the answer that it is located and is somewhere in the Venice Commission drawer to give its opinion. So that's a typical way of blocking some initiatives that were even political agreements, that when you don't want to do something, you send it to the Venice Commission and it keeps it in drawers. And now, in order to further comment on this response to the sub-question, but here is the style that is meaningful – how many such legal projects are addressed to the Venice Commission for the time being, will MPs receive answers to those opinions in due course? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19397	We're moving on to new parliamentary issues. Ambassador Saša Magazinović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19398	Very short. On behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, I refer to the parliamentary procedure of an initiative to form a temporary commission of the House of Representatives to determine the total consumption of budget money on behalf of the revenues and privileges that take place based on the behaviour of functions in BiH institutions. The Commission has, should also be tasked with identifying the public on budgetary costs relating to persons acting in office and on members of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, members of Parliament, directors of state institutions and state officials. In addition to the amount of funds received by these persons as a salary, the nominal costs of each individual who includes a number of benefits will be determined, so that I do not now list them, you know what it is. In addition, the price of car cost presented to the public at the time of purchase bought for the mentioned persons will also be explored. The Commission should have 9 members, so each club should have the right to propose one member, and the time range it should deal with are the previous two mandates, so this and the previous 7 years. I don't think there's any further need to explain this initiative. The BiH institutions need to show transparency, we parliamentarians are very often subject to public questioning, with full rights, but we need to move forward and show full transparency and inform the public about it. Because the public should, has the right to know who, how and how public money is available and how much personal as a official costs the state of BiH. You see that today you have a different, different kind of approach to this problem, so you have from those who act like they're living on welfare, which is absolutely not, to those who the public don't know at all, and they have huge incomes and cost the state a lot, to those who are on the wall of shame, some justifiably, some don't. You will all and I will see that, save time, you will all get a proposal of this decision, I will now sign and be multiplied to everyone, and then in the regular procedure we will define ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19399	Ambassador Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19400	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the minister of justice is the only one here, is that so from the Council of Ministers, so... It is just as disappointed with this fact that, as Mrs Majkić said, what kind of relationship towards parliamentarians, questions asked, answers received, at the time 11 answers were not received and all that is going on in this part, so I have just insisted that at least this point remain the parliamentary one where we can say at least something independent when and what kind of answer we will get. We can't seem to influence much, but in one system of disturbed values I ask the question... and our responsibility and the Council of Ministers' responsibility, in this part which is our mutual responsibility, and the Council of Ministers to deliver certain things and how much will we be responsible for certain things that are happening in BiH? By who knows which time I mention the system of health, where we are certainly also responsible in Parliament, and together with the Council of Ministers. After my year and a half of insistence on a health loan, there was a devastating fact that the Ministry of Civil Affairs in the Health Sector had not had any information on the raised, raised loans to health institutions since 2007. So that basic role that was in the coordination of capacity building, monitoring of the process, none of the contracts went through the Ministry of Civil Affairs. We have ratified them here, raised our hand for it, and today, not even... many cantons can't bring them back, nor will they bring them back, but it will fall on someone else. To this end, I am now asking one other question – Where is this full responsibility in what I mentioned two months ago both the amount and the level of medicines and the essential list of medicines that is currently valid in entities and Brcko District? I must remind you that the system of making and adopting the list of essential medicines at BiH level, there is a Commission for Medicinal Products BiH, then the Professional Council, the Medicines Agency and then the Council of Ministers adopts a single list of essential medicines with reference prices based on prices related to prices in the National Medicines List of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia. If we look at today's drug lists, essentials that are made at the entity level and should be built according to the same law, we have one medicine that is 50% more expensive in the Federation than in the RS or vice versa. The total amount of prescription drugs only issued in BiH is 450 million marks. I guarantee a serious approach at the annual level for healthcare can save 100 million marks only on drugs.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19401	Time's up for a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19402	Probably won't or won't or can't, but somebody probably won't. The Agency for Medicinal Products is working for six years, the Expert Council is working for six years, and eight issues to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the chairman of the Council of Ministers from the previous call, the Council of Ministers and the Agency for Written Medicinal Products are being delivered.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19403	MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19404	In short, this issue was referred to the Constitutional Court of BiH, the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and the Court of BiH. 1. When will the BiH Court of Justice stop the retroactive application of the 2003 Criminal Law of BiH in the acts of war crimes and start with the application of a more favourable SFRJ Criminal Law in accordance with the Strasbourg Court Decision and the constitutional court of BiH's appeal? 12 2. How long has the Constitutional Court's appeal come to the verdict of the BiH Court of Justice over the retroactive application of the Criminal Law? 3. What on this plan can VSTS do as a regulator? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19405	Thank you. Next question, distinguished counterpart Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19406	One question for the Ministry of Defence – Please information on the status and application of the Sub-regional Weapons Control Agreement, as well as the activities of the Verification Centre in the process of implementing this Agreement. So we have on several occasions opened the controversy here about the number and structure of the BiH Armed Forces, etc. It'll be good to have this information about what's going on with this subregional agreement and it'll be very useful to assess some things. After all, it is an interstate contract that is extremely important for the whole region and it will be good for Parliament to get to know these things. And by the way, Mr. Chairman, it's not parliamentary, but it is a question for you, so do we ask the parliamentary questions in writing, is it then an unlimited number of questions? If it's unlimited, okay? So when, you don't have to answer now, because that's what got me confused, which is why I asked. So, when we ask in writing, we can ask an unlimited number of questions. But then we should know when it's written so we can prepare a dozen, twenty questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19407	Thank you. This question has not been resolved by the Rules of Procedure, we do it in good practice, we direct MPs to ask one question to bring the seriousness of this issue to the highest possible status, of course, since it has not been settled in business. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19408	Thank you. I have prepared a parliamentary question for the Council of Ministers of BiH, which reads: – Does the Council of Ministers of BiH consider it possible in BiH without the Ministry of Education at the state level to carry out the necessary obligations on the path of the EU and Euro-Atlantic integration in view of existing organisation, and can a concrete shift be expected in 2014 in this respect? The second question is for the Ministry of Transport and Communications: – When will we finally have properly marked exits and exits from BiH and why has this not been done so far? Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19409	Thank you. Dear colleague Ismet Drvoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19410	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I refer to the Commission's initiative to elect and appoint a member/member of the Central Election Commission of BiH. I call on you to take advantage of the references of the proposed candidates and candidates, in line with the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality of BiH and the BiH Election Law, of the possibility to make this Commission at least partially sensitive and equal when proposing a new member/member. I remind you, among the current 7 members of the Central Election Commission, there is only one woman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19411	Thank you. Dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19412	Thank you, Chairman. I would have a few questions with the BiH Council of Ministers. Offered not so many ancient events, i.e. by the public's mood within BiH, and above all within the Federation of BiH, on the same level of individuals on their private portals where they supported Croatian representative Mr. Josip Šimunić, is he, in the possible emphasis on the greeting "For Home". In the Federation, there was so much haranga and even a young lady was disciplined by an existing one, meaning from an existing minister. I belong to a foreigner who uses a greeting for home, and otherwise we had an army in '91. The year confirmed by the BiH presidency, which means it was wearing a sleeve that it was ready for home. So with that, I think that in the Federation, not the Federation, but in BiH, there are a lot more difficult and much bigger problems that we should talk about, and today we may have mentioned something at the time of the adoption of the budget, financial affairs, huge incomes in the institutions, here's great that colleague Magazinović launched this initiative, is that people in public enterprises have received 14 thousand marks, or salaries, and the receipts are probably 20 and more. So now I ask the question to the Council of Ministers – Does the Council of Ministers, given that we have not received their plan and programme for a year what they intend to do, but this is whether they intend to pass a law on finding, marking and protecting the cemetery of the victims of World War II and...? Let me just point out that in Western Herzegovina it's passing somewhere, so from Stoc up to Livna in '45. And '46. 19,970 members of the smaller part of the Croatian people died in the year. Will the Council of Ministers in the following year launch an initiative for the laws on protection and rights of political prisoners, then the law on lustration, the law on banning and using the symbols of fascism, Nazism and communism, so that we do not come back to some dilemmas of what we can say or say or what we may not, because we fear that someone once did not use it in his speech, so that we may not be associated with this evil time? Then, does the Council of Ministers intend to propose to the BiH Parliament a declaration of condemnation of crime and 14 violations of the human rights of all totalitarian regimes, as well as that of the communist regime, because a recent failure of such a declaration by colleagues... all in the spirit of the Resolution of the Council of Europe whose I am a BiH member? This since I didn't have that paper, because I stayed in my office, so I'm gonna deliver it in writing later... But here I am, mostly orally, expressing what my initiative is.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19413	Your Honor, here at the request of the second deputy chairman, please the secretary to determine if we have a quorum at this point? Since we don't have a quorum, I'm taking five minutes off. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19414	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The MP's question is MP Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19415	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19416	Business MP Drago Kalabić on behalf of the club, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19417	I apologize, Mr. Chairman, it is not common and we do not have the opportunity to replicate, but I ask that the SNSD Club be provided with a stenogram of Mr. Jurišić's previous parliamentary question, I am not sure that we understand it very well, but it seems to me that there are inappropriate and very dangerous qualifications that are not suitable in this place. But here, after reading the stenograms we'll get, after reading the stenograms we'll set ourselves up according to that. And it would be good for the Kolegijum to read that stenogram and see what it's all about.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19418	Okay. I don't know what it's about right now, but I do know one thing, every MP has the right to get a stenogram from every point of the agenda, so there's no reason for the competent services not to prepare and this part. Ambassador Slavko Jovičić has a parliamentary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19419	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19420	I apologize, Niko Lozančić, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19421	Thank you, Mr. President. 15 Not to say I'm worried, previously the vice president took a break when I was supposed to ask this question, now you've skipped me, and I hope it's not because of the text of the questions I'm going to read to you. In line with the promise given, I am asking the Council of Ministers and asking for data to be delivered to me – Who are the tenants who rent business premises for the accommodation of BiH institutions? For natural persons the name, last name, father name, birth date and address of the dwelling, for business entities name and headquarters of the firm, and the name and last name of the majority owner, monthly amounts of funds paid to each tenant and data requested for 11 months 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19422	Thank you. Ambassador Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, question, Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19423	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Parliament's question to the sekretarijat of our House, Mr. Secretarys, to write this down, that, together with the professional service and the Joint Affairs Service, you will not have to rush, of course, the names with photographs because I couldn't find them, the director of agencies and BiH institutions, and that it stands there – who appointed them, or who named them, what date, when their term of office expires? Because we have a five, six-year-old director here, you can't change him, and then they ask me why you don't change him, listen, and I didn't even know that his seven-year term was up. So it's very easy, to help a little, to establish with the Ministry of Finance. See who's taking money from the Budget of BiH, so if it's possible in that information, and I got it in the last term and I didn't get anything with it, the number of employees in each institution, how much they receive money, what they spend, where they walk, etc. But today someone said here - the rotten grandmother flax. You can't talk about the flax anymore, the flax has been kicked out of even agricultural production, it's intoxicating drugs, it's a substance for intoxicating drugs. So that I may not speak to a rotten grandmother, I will not, I say: the grandmother is combing, for the wool will not hurt anyone's head, though he is in pain of the wool, and he is healed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19424	Thank you. Ambassador Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19425	A brief, clear question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers – When will the payment system be set up in rural development for BiH? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19426	I appreciate the specific question. Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19427	Madam Chairman, I have a quick question. Namely, it is the question of the Minister of Education, i.e. Education and Culture of the Republic of Slovenia, as it is already called: 1. What does the Ministry of Education and Culture of the Republic of Slovenia plan to do to ensure respect for the fundamental human rights of children in schools in RS, an example of Konjević Polje, Kotor Varoša and others, and this is the right to a national group of subjects guaranteed by the Constitution of BiH and RS? 2. What does the minister plan to do so that children don't lose their school year, since the boycott continues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19428	Thank you. I'm closing the second item of the agenda. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. The request of MP Milorad Živković to consider the draft law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure The draft law in the procedure was submitted on 04.12.2013 with a request for an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate and reminding you that the discussion at all points is limited to five minutes. The word has the vice-president and future chairman Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19430	I thank the chairman. In fact, it seems to me that the last time we discussed whether or not this should be included as a part of the agenda, because last time we had a debate on the very scales of the law and let us just figure out a few things and for those who might not know how things are right now. We in the parliamentary procedure in this House have been adopted, and the House of Peoples is yet to be discussed at one of the sessions, the agenda in which the SDS' proposal for an election law should be considered. At the same time we were given to the College, I believe the MPs also received a proposal from the House of Peoples that adopted, according to an urgent, proposed electoral law. And today, before you, we have a request that I have proposed, and I say that the debate has been held in the past or the pre-session of the law, which is also an emergency procedure. There are various types and possibilities to resolve this situation. It's all up to us. I felt that this proposal, which I proposed, was comprehensive, that it was more norm technicalally transparent, that it was more principled and that it was harmonised fully with both entity laws and with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The simplest solution would be to now adopt this law here in Parliament, to head to the House of Peoples, and then to consider and bring two laws, adopted by an emergency procedure, into line. 17 There is also the possibility that here I will admit my part of the error, if it exists on my part, and that we realize that the SDS law which has been proposed at speed, that it is neither in accordance with nor in technical norms, is not in conformity with the Constitutional Court's ruling entirely, nor is it in accordance with entity laws and that the worst solution. That the solution that came from the House of Nations is a better solution, but that it does not generally treat the Constitutional Court's decision, but also that it respects entity laws, because it did not refer to part of Article 20.13, which must also be deleted, to remind me, it treats the issue of election units in RS. 6 election units for the National Assembly have changed the National Assembly to 9 constituency units, as well as the relationship between the election of mandates, both communicative and direct ones. If we do not do so in the law of that provision, BiH's electoral law still stands. It cannot be called upon a previous member who speaks of it until entities pass their laws, because a dead man from political, to say, regulations or legislation cannot be ignored, he must be kicked out of the law. That shows their proposal. They referred to the 1st member in a way that they added (a) not deleting that part of the article, and then unencipated one member, it is not in principle in their law. But here, not to talk about it, I suggest, I'm ready for all kinds of agreements to withdraw this law, all they need is a fellow SDS to apologize nicely to all of us here, to say that they have proposed a bad law and to say that this law, which the House of Nations adopted, is better, to debate it in one of the procedures, here I will give up this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19431	Thank you. Is this a mistake, fellow Šepić, he called the SDS or is it a replica after all? Ambassador Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19432	Well, I would like to ask my colleague, Mr. Živković, that he is telling us exactly what he really is telling us, the fundamental reason for the submission of this law today in the procedure and that, as I would say, he tells us most precisely what is the concrete difference between what you are proposing here today and what we have adopted in Parliament in the majority. I'm sorry to ask you this again, but I know you tried to explain it to us, but frankly, you couldn't convince me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19433	Ambassador Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19434	Perhaps more suggestions to Mr. Živković. I suggest that you all apologize to us, so both the SDS and Mr. Živković and the House of People, and that we, here are the three of us, give to the Interressor Working Group, and finally get along with what's wrong. I don't understand anything anymore who's right, who's wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19435	Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19436	Mr. Chairman. I would, therefore, be in this situation, of course, respecting the Rules of Procedure, and that is a fundamental condition for what I am going to say, completely rational, and I would like to see as soon as possible that we in BiH finally need to get an electoral law that will allow next year's elections in October and that will exclude any kind of speculation. What we have in BiH today is subject to various kinds of speculation. We currently have a four-law procedure on the same subject. One, adopted by this House of Representatives, is already the Law of this House, is not the law of BiH because it was not adopted by the House of Peoples, it has a peroceure in front of the House of Peoples. One is the one co-worker Živković suggested by emergency procedure, that's two. He's the third to be adopted by the House of People and delivered to us here at the front of Mr. Košarac, right? And the fourth is proposed by the HDZ Club, which is addressed to the Constitutional Court. They all cover the same subject. This fourth one is a bigger one, so it includes Mostar, but all four of them include the theme of these election units. It is the only condition that we can say that electoral legislation is ready to hold elections. All other questions can be settled, and they don't have to, it would be good to have them resolved. But this issue must be resolved, so election units for the national parliament of the RS. These norms are no longer in the Electoral Law, and all four laws touch this issue. Look, I don't care if we stay with this law that we passed, I think the Law adopted by the House of Representatives is the most consistent. As far as I'm concerned, there's no problem with us adopting as a House of Representatives and what was adopted by the House of Peoples, but just give it as soon as possible to come here to the House. Look, here, it won't be possible for us to adopt one text, one bill, sorry, no text, that the House of Peoples adopt another bill, these are two different bill proposals. It's not a different House vote by the same bill when it comes to alignment. So this is another situation, here are two laws, two proposings, one adopted by one House, another adopted by another House. If I were you, I would now remove every dilemma, if possible today, since the House of Nations is proposing that law that he adopts here in an emergency procedure, give it here, that we pass this law and that we have a law adopted by both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly and that we end this discussion, remove any possible dilemma. I repeat, for me, the most consistent text that we adopted here, but also what was adopted by the House of Peoples, can ultimately withstand criticism. I don't agree with that other member who's talking about that norm over there as she's being treated, but I think she can go through it formally. So let's find a solution, if possible today, if not, then for the next session, let's put it on the agenda and finish it once. Don't question any interresor working groups, don't give this issue to any specific groups, this issue simply needs to be resolved to say, when we do, that BiH is ready when it comes to electoral legislation and elections, general elections, the general elections next year will be held in October. All other questions go to the Interresor task force, but let's do this. Mr. Živković, so I support this, that you withdraw this text of your proposal, put the law of the House of Nations here for us to see what we will do with it. If we adopt this law, then we will have the law in the Parliamentary Assembly and the matter is finished. I think it's the most elegant way to get out of this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19437	Thank you. 19 The word has the vice-president Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19438	I just don't know how to comply with the procedure for me to give up this law and now we have the law of the House of Peoples on the agenda. If that's possible, we can see that possibility and see if there's an amendment. All I'm saying is that this House of Nations proposal is better than the proposal adopted by this House. I'll remind you that I was saying don't do that. The quick proposal that was made here was not perfect, on the contrary it was imperfect and wrong. I suggested, colleague Belkić, that he go towards the Interresor Working Group and that when we said that he had a comprehensive solution was not accepted here. I apologize to those who think I insist on things without need, but I think I'm right in this case. I say the elections will not be called on because the Election Commission will ask this Parliament to explain. What does he do with non-repeated members who are not deleted? How will it be interpreted until the entities have passed the regulations? Is it going to be interpreted as having both entities to make regulations or is it understood that only one entity can pass regulations without the other entity being able to... regulations, because this particular is a temporal character and implies that someone can interpret both entities have to? And that's why I suggested here that we wipe out the RS who did her job, delete the provisions that are in their jurisdiction, and don't do that. Those who have not completed their job in the BiH Election Law remain provisions until they finish their job. And there is nothing disputed about it, then a provision would be clear. This is a vague form that remains, which the House of the Peoples has instructed us until the entities have passed the regulations. Someone's going to interpret that they're both entities. I think it's a clear law, but here I won't be so vain, let the colleagues who have manipulated us all here that their law was wrong, we'll find some opportunities for this House of People to consider and I'll withdraw mine. But I won't take it back until they admit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19439	Thank you. Replica, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19440	Well, you see, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Živković, if there is a good intention for us to resolve this issue, then we will solve this issue, but I don't think there's any blackmail policy or any kind of conditionality going on. So we need to consider, without any conditions, what is what is the business office and what is best for BiH. If we agree that we are all committed to what we do, it must be based on the Rules of Procedure, and we must agree on that, because it is simply a condition without which nothing can be done in this room, and if we agree that it is necessary to resolve this issue as soon as possible in order for the state to have the conditions for holding elections next year, we will very simply resolve this matter. Don't make this a condition, we're trying to politicize now. I did not want to conduct a controversy over what the request to delete a provision that had already ceased to exist under the very saying of BiH's Electoral Law on the moment the entity settled its law on the issue it received from the Electoral Law. The moment the RS Assembly arranged electoral units and the relationship of direct and compensatory mandates within 20 as prescribed by the BiH Election Law, then, respecting if it is respected and respected, the frameworks were respected, as the minimum number of these direct and compensatory, both minimal and maximum number of electoral units. At that moment, the norm of Article 20.13 ceased to apply. The electoral law that says until the entities settle the issue will be as it says in the law. So, if the law says entities are going to fix this, until they do, it's going to be like this, the moment the entities edit that norm itself doesn't exist anymore, because the electoral law puts it out of force. That I am not now adding a particular question to the Constitutional Court's decision. I don't think the Constitutional Court had the need to put that standard, which applies to the entity, out of force, and not even to consider it, because it has already been put out of force by the entity parliament's decision, because the parliament used the powers of the BiH Election Law, so this Parliament, and adopted that norm. There's only one question here, it's no longer a question, we have electoral units for the National Assembly of the RS, they exist, they're in the law that entity law was passed under the authority of the state election law. We just need to arrange election units for the national parliament of the RS. So it's those three constituency units, because they're gone. There is no one to bring to this norm, but this Parliament, because it is his ingenuity, except his ingenuity. And the Electoral Law, proposed by colleagues from the SDS, regulated the issue. True, that's where the municipalities are listed, and I have the answer for that, too. And in Article 1. Election law is talked about the city of Banja Luka, and then later on, Banja Luka is spoken of as a municipality. Anyone who wants to read it right and well - meaning could not have seen any problem. And that makes the law more consistent. You offered the law, I told you...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19441	Replication timed out.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19442	Where's the problem? Here's my apologies, where's the problem with your law. It came from the House of Peoples a law that is better, Mr. Živković, than the text you have proposed, but here it is not as consistent as the Law adopted by this House of Representatives, but it can be a solution. Here, let's finish it today, it's possible anything, so today it's possible to complete this session, after which, immediately open a new session and adopt only that law, only with that point. BiH deserves and this issue is so politicized that it deserves that after this session ends today
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19443	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19444	The hymns of the new session are played, immediately scheduled, and that is the point of the agenda. Five minutes to know we're done. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19445	Thank you. Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19446	Thank you. My replica refers to the presentation of the esteemed colleague Živković. The good part concerning Article 20.13 was said by Mr. Džaferović so there is no need to repeat it. As for the apology, I really don't know who's supposed to apologize to here, because here, from one party, from one club, we got two completely different laws from one party. And who's playing around here with this and this other Dom. The SDS has submitted amendments and additions to its Electoral Law with one single objective to allow elections to be held. You had the opportunity to act as an amendment, and this could be a single amendment to solve the situation we were talking about. And then what happened? Then we get from one party, an MP from the House of Representatives, a delegate from the House of Nations, and they propose two different laws. And what kind of dancing we're talking about here. Well, I guess you can agree within your own party and don't carry your intraparty thorns here, please, between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19447	Thank you. Ambassador Drago Kalabić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19448	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I answered my word to say the real will and intention of the SNSD Club to end this issue in one way, here's how Mr. Živković suggested it. Now is not the time to elaborate a wide story about the Electoral Law, but I would remind you that the SNSD had the will to make quality law through the Interresor Working Group and that we were talking, we are still standing by, that our electoral legislation has a series of shortcomings. It's no time to remind you, but I don't think it's right to forget that Mr. Živković has a lot of experience in working in the Interresor Group and that he's one of the people who knows it best. I don't think it's right to ignore it and treat it like it's the first time he's talked about it. But here, we're not going to talk about it right now. We were trying to convince that other changes have come well and hoped that what Mr. Džaferović said would drive out any doubts, we are ready to end this today. So we're ready to end this today, if we need some kind of break to find a way. I would remind you only that today the Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations has made a negative statement about the principles of the Law that came from this House, which further says that we should seek a solution within these two proposals, namely, by myself, if I understand from the discussion, from the proposal that came from the House of Peoples and try to resolve this issue today. Everyone will remain in their positions, we continue to express regret that we are not, that we have not been rudely rejected and we have not been given the opportunity and we have lost 2, 3 months to solve all these other issues through the Interresor Working Group, and that only the only goal was people who know this thing well to fix it and that others listen to them that they're right. And certainly Mr. Živković's discussion and everything he said about it was in place, but obviously we didn't listen enough. But, well, anyway, there should be no doubt and we do not think of it, and at any point our goal was not, and we refuse to have any connection, because whoever is against the elections does not believe that we should and that anything is looking for in this House, because this Parliament has come through the elections. So I suggest, here's some college to see if there's room, I can't get to the point exactly at this 22 moment, to try to track these solutions down today, solve this issue and put an end to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19449	Thank you. Another replica, deputy chairman Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19450	Well, you see, dear colleagues, we at SNSD are trying to be better. Every time we make a better proposal, because I regret that there is no such positive in the SDS, let me say, and that you are fighting, because such a proposal that you have made can't be worse. He's past the Law on Territorial Organization of the Republic of Slovenia where you know as well as I do that cities have become both Bijeljina and Trebinje and Doboj and Prijedor, and that you cannot go beyond the law, which had the right to bring the National Assembly out of your jurisdiction, in violation of your proposal. That the National Assembly also organized election units, 9 of them, so you have no right to violate because you are an MP from the RS and that such a bad proposal, I believe, and you just have to admit, that it didn't come from you, but that someone made you do it. I'm just asking you to say it, and I'm giving up my proposal, so let's move on. I think it's really more than a fair offer. A kolega, Džaferović, in a proposal that came from the House of Peoples, they say they are erasing Article 20.13 under the 3rd that speaks of the National Assembly. Why delete a member according to what you said if you already say a temporal provision has come that these are over. Then why is it in their proposal to delete that member? If that's the case, why don't we just delete it, then the member in front of the 2nd, so wait, but if we delete it, then we delete both. If we feel like we shouldn't, then we're erasing because it's their jurisdiction, then we're not erasing it either. _________(?) Don't cook. Well, I'm not cooking, you answer me, you're a lawyer, it's not principled. So, if anything needs to be done by this Parliamentary Assembly, I think, when the Constitutional Court says something was put out of force, this Assembly must delete it by its law. It is a matter of this Parliamentary Assembly and no one else in this country can cast that member out. He can put it out of force, but until we tell here that member is deleted, he stands in it, read it you or not, applied or not he stands in that law. Well, I guess it's a basic legal postulate when legal acts are done. And if there's anything we need to throw out, then let's get rid of what was put out of force. In order for the law to be consistent, we have to throw a member out front or pretend that he is because the National Assembly adopted the law does not exist. If he doesn't exist by that rule, then we shouldn't throw these out either. They don't exist and they're done. We can come to a solution, we can even come to a solution today, because the House of Peoples is up there working, so that an Ad hoc commission will be formed to discuss these two laws if it has a good will, and I think it has a good will, that, as you say, a session is proposed right after, if we can finish this and we can finish it. I warned you we wouldn't pass constitutional law. That law if it passes in the House of Peoples, I see it is negative, I will put it in the Constitutional Court because it has not treated the cities of the RS. And he'll fall in the Constitutional Court. And what do we do if that happens in May of the month? And that is why it is in my interest to end this as soon as possible, to get the Electoral Law, but the electoral law voted by this Parliamentary Assembly with its brains, not that it came from the international community or any other cuisine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19452	Thank you. Ambassador Adnan Bašić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19453	Well, I don't know if it should be replicated here at all, but this has become very sad, but it's still raining. I know that the verbal war started both, but unfortunately we all pay for it here, especially at times as difficult as they are right now. We're under a crisis of time. We need to figure this out. We have now come to the dilemma, but here in this dilemma the rest of this Parliament, except for these two political parties, whether we should kill what we have voted for ourselves and whether we accept one or the other. He's in Bosnia and Herzegovina again. And who's right? You have two different variants here. Okay, Mr. Živković, we can accept that, and we're not asking for an apology from anyone, that's what you're asking, we're not asking, but if there's any logic and common sense, what should we do in this situation, if we put your proposal on the ground that we ourselves created by another vote for another proposal. One problem. Another problem, if we stay tight with the proposal that was accepted here and proposed by the SDS, we all know very well only nobody will say openly, will never pass on to the House of Peoples and we all know why. So, another problem. What are the rest of us gonna do? Please, Mr. Živković, Mr. Bosić as president of the SDS, I ask you to help make sure these sessions don't just continue the verbal war between you, but to end up as people this job because we have other points of the agenda. Help us, at least be a little calm and polite, find a common way out of all this and move on with our work. It doesn't really go on like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19454	Thank you. Replica, MP Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19455	Thank you. I am sorry to have to speak like this after the discussion and appeal of Mr. Bašić, whom I respect and appreciate, but I really have to look back at the discussion of fellow Živković, who only confirms one thing to me, which is that SNSD will do everything to avoid the election. Mr. Živković, when you say here that we have done something under someone's pressure or anything, be sure and assure that SDS has never done anything under any pressure, nor are we under any influence, or anyone who writes anything. Well, at least you know that, because yesterday there was an official Committee on the Protection of the Constitutional Order and the President of the Republic said last night that it was the job of that committee to track all RS officials in Sarajevo and monitor their movements. And since we know that this Committee is already working, since we know that this Committee has been listening to our phones for a long time, so you can very easily determine 24, and here I am calling you just to say that and he wrote, let that Committee of yours get in there a little bit in the tapes and archives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19456	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19457	It's terrible what was said yesterday, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19458	I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. Replica, Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19459	I'll just have two sentences for everyone who doesn't understand something. As far as I know, all the solutions were sought within a coalition, and as soon as you get out of the circle, you have problems with the coalition. You can have these problems on any law, on any project, and we can, like we don't know what the problems are. I ask why in the previous session, not the agenda point, why the Budget did not ask for the opposition's consent. So whenever you try to disrupt some sort of fixed order of size, and you won't admit it, then there's a problem. We need to get back to that fixed row and find a way out and finish this question. One thing that ends with one thing and the other with the other, of course, leads to a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19460	I'm closing the third item of the agenda. We're going to the fourth point, Ad. 4. The request of Ambassador Mirsad Đugum to consider the proposal for a law on the availability of immovable military assets under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Šefik Džaferović answered first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19462	So, since the promoter did not report the word, I expected us to hear the proposal's position, as far as I understand this law, this law is on the verge of meeting the conditions for NATO's unblocking times. So he solves the issue of promising immovable military property being registered to the state and part of an unsupervised immovable military property for the needs of BiH institutions, regulates these two things. And because it is about, therefore, a law that tries to unblock NATO's path BiH's SDA club will support this and procedure and the very text of the law, by asking the promoters to look at the title of article 6 of this law. Chapter 2 speaks of promising immovable military property, Article 6 also speaks of promising immovable military property, but the name of Article 6 speaks of unspective mobile property. It's not an inspective movement, it's a perspective 25 immovable. That's supposed to be in the title. This is, therefore, an important thing and try to make this right, if you can at least in front of the House of Nations, so when it's agreed to do that thing. So, it's not inspectively mobile, as far as I can understand it, this has to be perspective motionless. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19463	Thank you. Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19464	I thank the chairman. Here, let me mention it at the very beginning, and I suppose that the proposer wanted to unblock the whole process, which was recently reminded by his colleague, Džaferović, and in this sense all the support and the promoter that, not even waiting for the leaders of political parties to agree on some issues, to open this process of regulation of this part of state property to unblock the process, that is, the way to NATO membership. I must mention, and in that sense, and therefore, support to the promoter, I must say at the very beginning, and it is surprising that the motioner gave up the earlier proposed decision, because it seemed quite logical that the decision unblocked 63 locations, i.e. to register on the decisions made by this Parliament when it came to property, i.e. part of the barracks, former barracks Maršal Tito and the allocation of property for the construction of the American Embassy. However, in addition, perhaps we should all consider an emergency procedure, just what he also drew attention to, and colleague Džaferović, a discrepancy between the formulations in Article 3 and Article 6 which, if an emergency procedure was adopted, would make impossible corrections at this stage. However, I would like to mention that the legislator is starting with the fact that the D.A. is just about to start doing his job. To be clear, the Constitutional Court's decision, the international concession agreement did not prevent the Advocate's Office from registering 63 locations so far. So, in a way, the formulations of this law amnesty the Attorney General for what he didn't do his job. Just to be clear, though I know it wasn't the proposing's intention except to that extent, but there's a need for this law to go maybe in a shortened procedure. I will warn of another detail in this law, which is Article 5 in which you say that the BiH Ministry of Defence is responsible for the debts and other obligations arising from 01.01, in order to explain this law that no additional financial resources are needed to implement this law. So, I'm not sure that such a situation can happen so that the Ministry of Defence can be responsible for the debts, debts and other obligations created since 01.01.2006.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19465	The emergency procedure is procedure, so we're considering that it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19466	Yeah, yeah, about the emergency procedure and the discussion, the procedure, the reasons why we won't support the emergency procedure. So in this formulation, I appreciate that financial resources are very much needed in order to quantify all of this. But anyway, here's what I'd like to mention is that 26 of us support the motion to open the process, the discussion, and to go to the solution to solve this issue, but for the reasons that we have stated, we will be abstained from an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19467	Thank you. Ambassador Senad Šepić is talking about an emergency procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19468	So here's counterpart Hadžiahmetović said a good part of my discussion. I'm not going to repeat how important this law is, how much he really needs this country, from this deblockation of NATO times and principles, political leaders' agreements. So the SDA has been actively involved all along in this process. I would like to invite the promoter to, in line with this latest discussion by my colleague Hadžiahmetović, so this brings back to the regular procedure so that we can respect these changes he talked about, that is, the corrections that my colleague Džaferović was talking about, and that is how we get out of this whole process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19469	With counterpart Džaferović saying to fix it in the House of Peoples. Ambassador Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19470	Thank you, Chairman. The law that lies before us today is a variation of the law that we had recently in the parliamentary procedure, which was jointly proposed by SDP and SBB clubs. And by not giving up in any way on what was the spirit of the previous Law for us is acceptable and we will support it. As some of the predecessors have claimed, all the legal solutions that will unblock NATO's path BiH is acceptable to us, and so is this Law. And, as we read it, it really comes out to the demands for a new step in BiH towards NATO, and that is how I call on everyone else to treat it and try to find a sufficient number of interested people to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19471	Thank you. MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19472	I am truly surprised, especially when I hear this part of the debate that Mr. Magazinović is now, as if there is no agreement, a signed agreement in which exactly what needs to be done is agreed on. As if there was no Commission formed by the Council of Ministers, which has already drafted a law that should be in the process at any moment. 27 I don’t really see why the SBB so much needed to make a proposal for a law in which it really didn’t cover everything that was necessary to cover it? Last time you had so many interventions to fix the law, because in that hasty you made a lot of mistakes, so one day you proposed the law, so tomorrow you changed it, so it was four times. I really don't understand why you needed to do it again. I understand the need of those who say – we want to pass the Law on State Property, or military property, because it is a prerequisite for the activation of MAP, but I do not understand that we do not care to pass this second part called the Law on Other State Property, which is a prerequisite for the closure of OHR. So you can see exactly who's doing what here and who cares. And just to remind my colleagues from the SBB that in this first point, which is called the perspective military property, these are the 63 locations, which, according to the latest information we received from the Ministry of Defence, are 50% unprepared for recording, the unfinished process of harmonising land-book data from catasters and land books. So, we don't have the paperwork, I'm talking about the emergency procedure story, why the emergency procedure? And for this second one, of 46 locations 35 is on Federation territory that has not been emptied, 11 in RS. So it's a process that will last for years, for years. I wonder why this legislator insists on an emergency procedure, and with this number of shortcomings the law has. What's it for, this hasty, this important matter. We've got an exact procedure on the way. Why don't we just stick to it and wait for what the Council of Ministers is doing for a few months? Well, let's make laws after which we ourselves have a headache. You won't do anything, I'm asking you to withdraw this law before it's considered in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19473	Thank you. Ambassador Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19474	So part of the statement by the MP Majkić is correct. 50% of the location is not ready for registration, etc., however, it is true that they are three years old here, through parliamentary issues, initiatives both towards the pravobranilaštvo and the Ministry of Defence, are required to do so. And they have answered us exactly the way and confirmed what is happening today – no, we will not do anything until Parliament adopts the law that this is about state property. And there is a replacement of thesis and we practically meet them today and they will just start working when this Law is passed today, forgetting also the Constitutional Court ruling and the International Agreement on Succession and Legal Continuity, etc., etc. And the conclusion, of course, of this Parliament, which was passed four years ago, which is being asked to order the Advocate General to book the property, and there is a time to say now we do not have 50% of the locations ready after four years.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19475	Given that the issue of property has not been resolved in the last three years but in the last 10 years, since the formation of the famous Commission. Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19476	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 28 I thank you and Mr. Belkić that you have partially answered the question, that is to say, of Mrs. Majkić's findings, which is why I wanted to replicate. What kind of rush are we talking about? Where are we in such a hurry if we can't move anything out of place for 10 years? We're basically just trying, Mrs. Majkić, and perhaps by mistake, very constructively reminding ourselves that you have to take the first step, a small step, half of the steps, but do anything. And we're just talking about when we're going to, that's the question. This -- waiting, sounds to me, you know the title of a famous drama called čekati for Godoa. I don't know if you've had a chance to look at it or maybe read the text. So this looks like what happens in the drama čekati for Godoa, and I do not believe that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should allow such serious things to be godo, invisible and never welcomed. The assumption is that nothing here can be fast enough when we are this slow and almost ineffectively solving these crucial problems, matters of importance for BiH and further steps towards some progress in this country. Whoever doesn't want us to come to NATO and who doesn't want us to move closer to Euro-Atlantic integration, it's probably all very fast. This is awfully slow for me. This is so slow for me. And that's why I think my colleagues and I are only doing the best we can to make all those who have to do it do what it takes to get the conditions for the adoption of these laws. And besides showing the public that we are not so insensitive and irresponsible to what is important to BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19477	Thank you. Replica, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19478	I respect your good will and your ambition, especially the ambition that often jumps us and we deal with it a lot more than it would be realistic to deal with. But you also need to understand that you lack capacity for certain proposals. And you may not like it, but it's a fact. This is a multidisciplinary work that was to be done by a larger group of people in the Council of Ministers, and the question again is what it will look like. This is a complicated job, it's hard, we can't get out of it easily, so the Department of Defense has been trying to get out of this for so many years, so it can't. It's illusory to think that you will have a superficial view of this issue from above. You won't solve it. That is not how this issue is solved. It takes a lot of people to get involved to settle this in a satisfactory way. So this Law has no perspective because it did not cover everything that should be covered. It's just a matter of military property here. Where's the rest of the state property? If you're so ambitious and you want to push it all around, how are you going to book the presidency building? Or other buildings where the institutions are, you forgot. That's why I told you not to do jobs you don't have the capacity for. Either you do them right, or you don't do them halfway, let someone else do your part.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19479	From what I understand, this is a step-by-step approach, right? A colleague of Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19480	Thank you. 29 I thank Mr. Džaferović, Mr. Belkić, all who have tried and wanted to help in this part to make these things done, although this has passed all professional services, professional services and lecturers even, but by circumstances, this is also a mistake in Article 6 technical and this particular thing, I thank them. And there's absolutely no rush here, whether she'll go by emergency, short or regular procedure, absolutely no rush. But we can also not say that someone is not unprepared or that someone has unpreparedly referred this to the parliamentary procedure, that we want something quick if this was also at the 5th month. And it was said in the fifth month -- we have a working group within the Council of Ministers, and we see what the Council of Ministers has done so far. If that's what's been going on for 10 years, and if we have a six-leader agreement since 2012, in which the SBB was not then in the negotiations, and the deal is that it will be settled. In order to resolve this further, and inspective military property, Mrs. Majkić, we are ready tomorrow to work together on resolving and adopting the non-perspective law procedure, if you are ready, we invite you to propose together a law on non-perspective military property. We are prepared here at any time to cooperate in the interests of all citizens and together to deliver to the parliamentary procedure the adoption of this law on non-perspective military property. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I wouldn't be about capacities now. If you've admitted it's yours, I wouldn't talk about it. I'm talking about the capacities of this part and the obligations of that, if it's already a capacity someone, you've probably been recognized by the citizens as the capacity to represent them, and then you've taken the obligation to do what we have to do, and to meet the path towards NATO and all these other things, to meet as much as we can and how capacity-ready we are. I think it is the obligation of every MP to do the maximum in doing so and, together with the help of all the services that are there, to bring what is in the interest of the citizens of BiH, which is our obligation towards the MAP, towards NATO, which is our obligation and this Electoral Law. Suddenly the races of election laws began, 1,2,3,5 proposals, etc. Please, I urge you to work constructively together on the same proposal of a law on unspectorous military property. We're in front of the SBB ready to come out with a proposal if you're ready. And that those services we need to adopt, if we don't have enough capacity to help us and that what they say, in the coming year, and that law sees the light in Parliament. This law can be improved. Whether he's going to go into an emergency procedure, a shortened procedure, whether he's going through emergency assistance or doing it together, along with the House of Peoples, if we accept him here, or in a shortened procedure or in a regular procedure, the Law is on our table. The law and the adoption of this law is our obligation, obligation and according to the agreement of the leaders of two years that we have not met so far. If we're willing to work on the arrangements, work with full confidence, then this should have been adopted long ago. Why the Department of Defense hasn't prepared and why 50 locations can't be registered so far and there aren't all the papers, it's not our responsibility. We can't wait for them all to prepare the paperwork and then we're passing the law. Don't let us obstruct ourselves because someone else hasn't passed the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19482	Thank you. Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19483	I thank the chairman. Regardless of the SDS Club's real solutions here are not acceptable to us, because there is one part that has not been solved at all, which is the recording of that property that would be registered to entities, cantons and lower levels of government, which was in that previous joint SDP and SBB proposal, it's been left out this time. So it's a partial solution. We appreciate your good intentions, however, I will also remind the leader that these two, and the leader's agreement dates back to 9 March 2012, when it is agreed that the Council of Ministers will form a list and state property within 90 days and in an additional 60 days decide which state property is needed for BiH institutions, which state property will be handed over to lower levels of government. Until today's Council of Ministers didn't do it. And then it was agreed to address the issue of military and state property according to the same principle. And we're about to get rid of it. No, not for NATO, not for anything, but to see the back of the OHR. But there's someone here who doesn't solve it. And here is the question of those sitting in the Council of Ministers who did not send us a solution, they did not honor that inter-party agreement. I'm afraid that from one broad consensus on something that we can solve, and I think these two issues are something that we could solve, it's come to each other that we're proposing our own solutions and that everyone together in this ruling majority is creating chaos. I will also remind you that on 05 October 2013, when the SNSD delegation was in the centre of the SDP and asked for the exclusion of the SDS from the majority, the following was announced – that SNSD and SDP leaders, Milorad Dodik and Zlatko Lagumdžija, agreed on the text of the bill on both military and state property. Me, here's a question from my colleagues from SNSD and SDP why haven't they sent us these harmonised solutions so far? And if they're good and in the interest of the RS, the SDS doesn't have that kind of vanity that we don't support them at all. Just tell us if this is going to work or not. We object to the SBB's concrete proposal, so we do, this is an incomplete solution and we need to get another law called the State Property Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19484	Are there any more reported? There's no one to give me a word so I'm closing this agenda item. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Criminal Law – Proposer: MP Mirsad Đugum (second reading) I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Do you want to give your friend Đugum some introductions?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19486	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19487	Nothing. I'm closing the debate. 31 We move to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Report by the Commission on an attempt to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH – Proposer: Home of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH There's no discussion here. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Violations of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19496	First you shoot and then you yell "stop." Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. So it's a serious question. Otherwise, I believe that all initiatives are serious, because our colleagues and colleagues are investing them, and each should be given due attention. But I think this is a special initiative directly related to the constitutional order of BiH, and it has been scrutinised on the Constitutional Commission and the Constitutional Commission, the truth of most votes, did not have a single view, did not support this initiative. I now propose to the House of Representatives not to support this initiative either. The BiH Constitutional Court belongs to the kind of constitutional courts the founder has given the authority to regulate the procedure himself and organise the way he works and to whom he himself, who has adopted the Constitution, has decided to give up managing the issues he has given in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. This has its deep foundation in the very essence of the Dayton Peace Agreement, in the complex structure of BiH and a very complicated way of making decisions in BiH. We have so far had several initiatives to pass the Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH, and I keep repeating every time that the Constitutional Court of BiH does not belong to that group of constitutional courts that Parliament regulates the procedure for work. Under an explicit constitutional provision, the BiH Constitutional Court has a prescribed way of working, so it knows what a quorum is and how it makes decisions and has the authority to edit its own procedures. This cannot be legally involved by the Parliamentary Assembly. What the Parliamentary Assembly can do is change the Constitution. When the Parliamentary Assembly amends the Constitution and amends these provisions and these powers given to the Constitutional Court, it is possible to pass the law. Until then, it is not possible, and I think it is not good, having, I repeat, a complicated, complex structure of BiH and a very complicated decision-making procedure to change this position of the Constitutional Court. All the attempts so far to pass the Constitutional Court Act were mainly on a number of issues. The first question was how to exclude judges appointed by the President of the European Court of Human Rights in consultations with the BiH Presidency from the constitutional court structure, to use that term in the future, and that is not possible, because the definition of this Court is such that it has foreign judges. The only thing the Parliamentary Assembly can do, under the authority of the Constitution, is consider consulting the President of the European Court after five years with the BiH Presidency on the appointment of foreign judges to the BiH Constitutional Court. Another question that has been raised very often in the laws has been an attempt to introduce the so-called so-called law. an ethnic vote in the BiH Constitutional Court. If that were to happen, and that is what every law contained, we would practically put an end to this norm by the BiH Parliament because in the House of Nations any question said that the issue of vital interest was supported by an ethnic vote in the House of Peoples and that would be the end of civil democracy of the House of Representatives and BiH would have Parliament at the level of the House of People and, therefore, the right to veto and the possibility of blockade, so as we in BiH already see it. So this isn't harmless and, how am I supposed to call it now, a simple initiative. It requires, therefore, the attention and consideration of this issue on all elements and therefore I propose that the House of Representatives reject this initiative, so it does not respect it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19497	Thank you. This last one's almost not controversial, but. The word is from Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19498	Yes, he is right, thank the chairman, it is right that counterpart Šefik was on several occasions an initiative to pass the Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH. I think it's, that these initiatives, the demands that they were justified. And I can say that we can absolutely expect that law to be passed because BiH is not a rule of law, there is no rule of law until the Constitutional Court is placed on its right feet. And now he's not put on his right feet. And, I must say, it is quite wrong to interpret certain provisions of the Constitution. All the constitutions contain basic provisions, basic principles on the Constitutional Court. Therefore, everyone stops, but the procedure before the Constitutional Court is laid down by law, i.e. by law and by sublaw. Therefore, in each combination proceedings before the court are laid down by law, i.e. by law and by sublaw. True, it is in the provisions of the Constitutional Court that judges of the Constitutional Court bring their own act, Rules of Procedure, so a sublaw. The Rules of Procedure, which the current Constitutional Court has arranged, can only be governed by the rules of procedure by the internal organisation of the Court of Justice, that, for example, the jurisdiction of the assessment of the constitutionality of the BiH Law was laid down before the Constitutional Court by the rules, that is, the sublaw attack. You can hardly find such provisions anywhere, especially in our environment. Therefore, if we are to ensure a high degree of legality and constitutionality, then we will have to pass this Constitutional Court Act. I am not saying that there should be provisions for revote, that is, the ethnic suspension of individual decisions, but it is absolutely certain that one law should be passed which will be democratic and which will determine the most important thing, which is procedural justice. And these procedural justices are gone now. And then you can't rule out some of the negative tendencies that arise in the work of that Court. Not to mention the execution of that court's decisions. Please, where does it say who executes the Constitutional Court's decisions? Is it possible to regulate the rules, by means of a sublegal act, the enforcement of decisions of the Constitutional Court? He can't. It's absurds. That's how it's been so far. And it is known under what conditions it has been, under the influence of the international community that has put pressure on it, which wanted to make some decisions, but profuturo must think about making a correct law, where no one will have the advantage. So no one will be favored, but everyone will be equal before the Constitutional Court. Then, the Constitutional Court's relationship with other state bodies. How it's arranged by looking from the context of the division of power. So the division of power is the fundamental principle of rule of law, the rule of law. You have no order, nor can it be arranged by means of your own act, adopted by the Constitutional Court. It is absurd that the Constitutional Court is acting by its own act. The Constitutional Court may have its own act, but that is only, those are provisions relating to the internal organisation of the work of the Court, and cannot in any way be governed by a sublegal act by the basic provisions relating to the law, i.e. the law and the sublaw. So, regardless, my intentions are the noblest. So, whether it is accepted or not, whether it will be conditioned tomorrow with state property laws, that is now the question, because these are the fundamental issues of BiH's arrangements. That's the question now. But this question must simply be put on the agenda. You can't go with someone, not to tell the quasi rules, make the most important decisions in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19499	Thank you. Ambassador Mato Franjičević wishes to contribute to this debate. Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19500	I hope to be as constructive as I will be short or as hard as I try to be short. First, to say what is important to me and it is important to me that the way in which the Constitutional Court is defined in the Constitution of BiH and in the legal system of BiH, in my opinion, is an illustration, a good illustration of the important transparent character of Dayton BiH. And that this is actually an argument, and that is a significant argument towards the need to seek such solutions, which will replace this important transparent character with a lasting character, and a lasting character is not possible without an internal agreement and consensus of three constituent peoples and all citizens of BiH. I'm not going to elaborate this any further, and now I'm going to get into this problem for a very short time. This is, this is about the Initiative of Honorable Professor Kunić, still not about the law, about the initiative for the law. As I see things the Constitution in its Article 6 allows absolutely that after 5 years, these 5 years since the first constitution has passed, that in another way defines the way these three sides of the judge in the Constitutional Court are elected. So, as far as I'm concerned, I don't see, constitutionally speaking, any obstacles to the making of legal solutions that will regulate it either in a different way or in a similar way. As regards the Rules of Procedure as a sublegal act, which was passed by the Constitutional Court, so judges, members of the Constitutional Court and who gave themselves certain powers, this is already a more discriminatory matter. Perhaps, at this stage, since this is an initiative, we should not even open a wide discussion about it. When we are, and if we get into a situation to talk about the law, about legal solutions, then there would certainly be a need for that. In any case, the way I see things, the Constitution has allowed the members of the Constitutional Court to bring in a sublegal act, so to the Rules of Procedure, to arrange certain things. Now, whether that fact prohibits legal regulation or the need for legal regulation and the way the Constitutional Court works or not, I leave this as an open question. In any case, I find the initiative acceptable at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19501	Thank you. MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19502	I really expected this initiative to be supported and that the Bošnjak would at one time manifest how they wanted things to start to change in this country. And that would really be the first proof that this country would have a chance. With this kind of thinking that an institution like the Constitutional Court continues to operate solely on the basis of its Rules of Procedure. So it's the only BiH institution whose work is not prescribed by law. Is it possible that such an institution can operate only on the basis of the internal rules adopted by those to which those rules apply? Secondly, is it possible for this Parliament to accept that 18 years since the end of the war we are still unable to remove foreign judges, and we have removed them from the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice, here we are unable to remove them from the Constitutional Court, and that one Nijemac, one Moldavac and one Makedonac judge within the Constitutional Court, when it comes to Srbin, Hrvat, usually two Bošnjak and three foreign judges are making judgments mainly against the interests of the other two peoples. That's at least the usual practice so far. We have no other way than to try to get to this law. Unless we can get to a law that can handle these issues in a unique way, there are 36 other ways. What does the Constitutional Court's work mean if 80 of his decisions have not been implemented? Is there any question about the integrity of such a court? Have we protected BiH by the fact that 80 constitutional court rulings have not been carried out? And when will it ever be, and will it ever be done? The RS is thinking a lot about this if the Constitutional Court decisions continue to be strictly against the interest of the RS, we will find mechanisms to stop those decisions that will not apply to us. So we will find ways to prevent the negative decisions made by Bosniak judges, namely two high-ranking members of the SDA sitting in the Constitutional Court, against the interests of the Serb and Croatian people. What's still, also unimaginable is that rule, Article 2. The rules of the Constitutional Court make it impossible for the legislator, so to the Parliamentary Assembly, to pass laws and other rules concerning the Constitutional Court. Please tell me isn't that contrary to Article 4.1d) which says that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH can legislate a different way of electing three judges elected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights. That's right, but we can't do that, because this desire not to pass the law is a desire to retain a condition that corresponds exclusively to Bošnjak. If the Parliamentary Assembly is at that stage that it has no right to touch anything called the Constitutional Court, how is it possible that we today have brought a budget relating to the Constitutional Court? Then I suggest that this be the last budget we've made, because if we don't have the right to touch anything related to the Constitutional Court, then we don't even have the right to make a budget for them. How has the Rules of Procedure of that same Constitutional Court been brought? In a way that the revote was brought by those who were members of him. We know how we went. So we carry countless negative experiences when it comes to the Constitutional Court, and we see how the Bošnjak defend not to change anything, to keep everything as it has been. I think we're going to have to find mechanisms, because the current mechanisms only provide that Bošnjak achieve their political goals through the Constitutional Court, and the other two people don't own any mechanisms to protect themselves from that.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19503	Thank you. We all swore that we would respect the BiH Constitution and I don't think it's very good to threaten to comply with constitutional provisions at the sessions. Dejton didn't play cards. I'm closing item 12 of the agenda. We're going to the 13th point, Ad. 13. Proposal for a resolution on the decision of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications to shorten the time allowed for advertising in public radio service programmes in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: MEPs Denis Bećirović, Saša Magazinović, Anto Domazet, Mirsad Đugum and Mladen Ivanković Lijanović I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're crossing, there's still, or, uh, a colleague of Franjičević's, are you, and you're giving up or what? 37
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19505	Here, I'll say it very briefly. I do not agree with this idea that the resolution is acting in this direction, because I think it is in some way a blow to a fundamental concept that is about to say that the public broadcasting system should be independent of any political influence. This can be understood, and I would see it that way, as a form of political pressure or a form of political, political influence on the processes in the area, in the information system in BiH. And I don't think that's a good way to go, and it doesn't lead in the right direction. Finally, we are all aware, some will admit it, some will not, some will admit quietly, some out loud, that the system of public broadcasting is very far from our declared function, to be, therefore, in the function of the public, as such objective, impartial, etc. And he is primarily, unfortunately, in the function of certain political holigarchies that control him or try to control him, even through these resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19506	This text of Resolution is in the interest of all three public broadcasters. If you look at its contents, you will come to that conclusion. A colleague of Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19507	Well, I didn't mean to, but very briefly. As you chairman said, so this is in the interest of all three public broadcasters. And being independent doesn't mean that his work can't be commented. It's just like when you mention it, ask the D.A.'s office a question, and if someone doesn't like it there, it's immediately a sign of pressure on judicial independence. I actually think about this, the topic dealing with this resolution exists, or at least I thought, a full consensus within the structure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, but here's to say the House of Representatives. Since the House of Representatives has the right to express its view on any matter, including this, and thus, before we saw, through statements made by representatives of almost all clubs, in fact, that they support this position on the review of the Council's decision of the Communications Regulatory Agency to shorten the time allowed for advertising in public radio-television systems programmes in BiH. I will remind you that this resolution was sent before it came to the process of all political parties' clubs and left enough time for everyone to determine it. It was offered to everyone to sign it, to be co-signed. Some have done so, some have said that there is no need, that they will support in Parliament etc. However, which is why it is important to finally identify ourselves today, and that is when this Council Decision of the Regulatory Agency for Communications comes into force, which is next year. I have no problem, however my colleagues declare this Resolution, which is proposed as Parliament's position, in which a delay in the application of the Code of Amendments to the Commercial Communications Code is requested, and that a credible analysis of the financial situation and the real needs is being drawn up in collaboration with the same public services, and that a decision which we have already heard a lot about in public has been reassessed after the end of that analysis. So I'm really calling my colleagues for the time that we're discussing. We didn't want to go any faster than we let in a regular procedure and it's going to be 38 today, but here's how it looks to me at the right time, since the application of the Decision is moving in the next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19508	Thank you. Replication of Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19509	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps just a little clarification of what Mr. Franjičević was talking about. There's no way this can be seen as a pressure on the functioning of public broadcasters, this is supporting the independence of public broadcasters. I guess some of my colleagues and colleagues remember, I have sent an initiative to the Board of Regulators to withdraw my decision taken at the last session completely out of office and beyond the mandate, also for the reasons called for by this Resolution. These are crucial decisions related to the functioning of public broadcasters, which are of the interest of all BiH citizens, and have been made in a way that I also consider professionally immoral. So, members of the Regulatory Agency Council who knew the next morning that they would be replaced by the new ones just voted in this Parliamentary Assembly simply gave themselves the right to, in this way, seem to me, play out in favour of some other and not public broadcasters in BiH, which still have to be important to this Parliamentary Assembly. So, I believe that this kind of Resolution should be supported, at least I personally because, that is, this Council of Regulatory Agency has not even qualified to respond to my addressed initiative to reconsider such a decision, at least in a certain way put into a more serious public debate, a more reasoned public debate and to withdraw as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19510	Thank you. Ambassador Petar Kunić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19511	Thank you, Chairman. It was on the Communications Commission, we discussed a lot of this issue and we were very serious about what the lawyers would say, in terms of things. And there was a divided view. So in the end we found some compromise solutions, I'm surprised why, why it didn't read. The Commission's position on the official body exists and we gave the answer to BHRT. So, this is mostly about Bosnian Herzegovic radio-television, mostly about it. The regulatory agency is an independent body and we've established it so it's a dependent body. And it seems to me that Mr Franjičević is quite right,... quite the management that this will understand the interference in the work of public broadcasters, especially since we have suggested certain solutions, so that the Regulatory Agency will reconsider that minute of advertising, whether, at public services and within its powers, it is possible to make a new decision. So, we haven't imposed any solutions and I'm afraid this resolution, the resolution is, please, the resolution is by its nature and character a political act, it's a political act. Here we fully expose ourselves and by a political act 39 we act on the Regulatory Agency, which is an independent body, which independently makes decisions, etc., which is an expert body. I don't think it's good to go with this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19512	I can only get word from the House of Representatives, so if you agree, I'll pay my respects. So, a few words. First, we delivered this Resolution to the procedure on November 28th, so today it is more than a month as it is in the procedure. The essence of this resolution, as it says in it, and what should be pointed out in particular that no negative message should go away, is, as stated in the preamble, that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH believes that Croatian services in BiH should be self-sustainable, independent and professional. We have stated very clearly that we believe that we too need to react with the aim of financial stability and sustainability of public broadcasters and that it is necessary to fully respect European standards and practices in all issues concerning the work of public broadcasters. The bottom line, therefore, is that we call for one credible analysis of the financial situation and the real needs of all three public broadcasters. I don't know what might be controversial about it. When we get that analysis, we'll have a discussion. And the third thing in this resolution is – until we get that analysis to stop this decision that was made by RAC and about this reduction from 6 to 4 minutes per hour. The word has an MP, Anto Domazet, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19513	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to say three things. First, the Commission for Transport and Communications concluded that the decision of the Board of Regulatory Agency has damaged the public interest, that the sustainability of public services and the public interest involved in their activities is at stake. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, let's let that be one broader interpretation of everything we've discussed on the Commission. The second thing, we suggest in the Commission's conclusions as well as in this Resolution to do an analysis. And third, to stop the application of the decision made. So everything contained in the Resolution here is also contained in the Commission's conclusions. Therefore, if the Commission has an impact on the RAC, this Resolution shall also take place. And we have estimated that we should take that action through the Commission. And what is the difference between the conclusions of the Commission and this Resolution? Only in the strength and authority that Parliament has, because we see that the Commission's conclusions are not being implemented. And this is just the same content dressed in the ruins of Parliament's authority. Why don't we adopt that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19515	Ismeta Dervoz, the replica. Here you go. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19516	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am extremely trying to refrain from this kind of communication in the Parliamentary Assembly, but if you allow me today somehow I can't relate to this topic, so this way, which is why I will continue to consider myself unusual and very rarely use it, I will replicate to the esteemed Mr Kunić. Mr Kunić, if it is apolitical and if it is an independent way in which we have received new members of the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications, then this is indeed one political pressure on the Agency and on its Council and it is inappropriate for the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. But here, I remind you to look again, really, at the way the competition was going and how we really got all those members, and then consider whether the Parliamentary Assembly should interfere in its business or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19517	Ambassador Petar Kunić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19518	I do not like to replicate much, but I must say – I did not participate in the election and the Commission was bypassed in the selection of members of the Council. Therefore, it was not delivered to the Commission in this case. It is common that, if the Kolegijum delivers all things to the Commission, it has not delivered, in this case, to the Commission. I'm amnesting myself from the guilt of any one of them. They were making some complaints, obviously there were irregularities in my knowledge and in my humble legal knowledge. However, what has just been said to be bound to be the same text as the Commission text, I do not think it is the same text. We were far away, at least as I recall, I don't have the Commission's text right now, we were there, so we opened up the possibilities, we weren't categorical in looking for some solutions, but we said – consider the situation again given the difficult financial situation of public services, etc., etc. And some of the things you've said, I think we've been more sensitive in this regard to not getting involved politically in the work of the Regulatory Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19519	Thank you. Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović's discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19520	Thank you. Although through the replica there are a lot of arguments that I wanted to point out in my discussion already exhausted, here's what I'd like to mention. The decision of the Administrative Board of Regulatory, Council, therefore, of the Regulatory Agency for Communications seemed to me at the beginning of the tenth month. I remember well, probably like you who followed the whole situation, that among other things there was one appeal by...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19521	A fellow Sarajlić just a little attention. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19522	by the European Commission to make one analysis before a decision is made. However, the Council has made a decision as it has made. I personally appreciated then that it might have been better if the Council had considered or other additional arguments, etc., but the controversy that followed, among other things, drew attention to several important things that are happening in media or media space, especially when it comes to broadcasting, public broadcasters, private broadcasters, etc. What about this Resolution now? I appreciate that this Parliamentary Assembly should preserve the independence of system regulators. So what this Parliamentary Assembly can do is call on the Council it appoints, so this Parliamentary Assembly appoints the Council to consider the decision eventually with some appeal. But with the suggestion of some solutions in favor of anyone in the media space, I don't think that's good. First, it endangers the independence of the regulatory authority, no matter what their decision is, if they need to reconsider that decision. This Parliamentary Assembly may seem to me, as far as it can do now, which is to invite the Council she has appointed to reconsider that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19523	Thank you. Ambassador Niko Lozančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19524	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I somehow managed to get a copy of this Resolution, but when I'm fortunate to have a Rules of Procedure on the work of the House, so to all those who say that this is not a political interference with the independence of the RAC Regulatory Agency and the Council, I will read an article called upon by the Proposer. So, the promoters called for Article 148, which says – and the House can express its position by means of a resolution on relevant political issues, social problems and needs, and is an emphasis, and identify policy guidelines, political guidelines to be implemented by the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers or other BiH institutions. This is okay with the resolution and the behaviour and treatment of the House of Representatives towards all institutions, political institutions, but it is not according to, at least that I understand the independence of independent institutions. So we could make a resolution that will oblige the BiH Constitutional Court to rule as it suits us here, we'll make most of it, and we'll tell us what we're comfortable with, too, it wouldn't be,...the institution, if so, was founded, established by the Constitution and..., based on the Constitution. And I'm going to tie this dot a little bit, so I have to tie it to the last one. We already know what the Constitutional Court Act might be. I don't see what the problem is. We have, therefore, one or very rare country here 15, 20 years after the war held by the Constitutional Court for 20 years in which foreigners are crucially involved in decision-making, and we are talking about sovereignty, our sovereignty of BiH, but we do not mind that they make sovereign decisions there on the most important issues, the constitutional issues of this country. We fear to say to ourselves, "We are men who take responsibility and say, "We will set it straight, and we will set it straight." And I don't see any reason, there are any more questions that we may be politically disagreeing on, we may disagree, I don't think this way of choosing the current judges... is good. If anyone should decide on the election of 42 Constitutional Court judges, then it is this parliamentary assembly, not entity parliaments, but in this regard. The very initiative to change something apriorius refuses, because I guess it's thought that all the gaps, all the gaps we have in the system, will be replaced by some resolutions that are in conflict with ourselves. So, uh, and we can't, as I am at least experiencing the notion of independence of certain institutions, we can't ask such institutions for and give them concrete tasks, concrete policy guidelines as Article 148 says, is it? These tasks call on the RAC Council to make a decision like this or it is a political direction, and if we think and if we want to preserve the independence of these independent institutions, as much as we like them or don't like some of their individual decisions. So there were situations where I didn't like some of the RAC decisions and the RAC Council, but independence is independence and should be respected at all times, and when I like it and when I don't like it. This comment that the RAC Council made some decisions when leaving so that they are problematic, I'm not sure that the argument, I mean, here's the one I don't want to say any other term. So, in my deep conviction, this question cannot be solved by resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19525	Only to be clear in business, so the resolution can correctly state the position on relevant political issues, social problems, but also the third thing about needs. And we think there's a need here. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It goes on, and it determines, but it should also be said that the OSCE has sent us one request to this occasion, the European Broadcasting Union, and now I don't have all the press associations, but here's what it is. Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19527	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I welcome a lady on the left and on the right two, two of our guests, and those who are at the beginning with the cards inserted, you know who that refers to, they're never there, coming to the vote, listening to this on the Internet. When I hear the word that something is independent, I immediately know it's addictive, I just turn the other way and I say it's addictive, but now it's time to throw the beans off of which it's addictive. If I throw a little more beans on the right, I know it depends on those who are in position a little stronger, if on the left hand side now I need to look for allies. What's going on here? I ask the basic question – what are we going to do, and immediately declare to the apriors or I am not against the Resolution, but what are we going to get from this Resolution when it does not commit anything to this Agency that is independent. Listen to those independents, and they depend on someone. Here we go, let's say we don't give money out of the budget, but pay the people a subscription. And who chose us? It's the people again. And who chooses their council? We, Parliament. And who chooses cancer? Niko. Who can change them? Niko. Seven years neither of them know what they're doing, and they're doing it alone, I know I've had experience because I've been complaining a few times to that RAK, and almost for them, God Bog, I haven't got cancer from sycaphing, don't give Bog away, because there's no one there to complain about, you're just going to get an answer -- we haven't seen that show, we're in charge of monitoring and some media house was on the way, so we're spending money, what they've punished, because they've already predetermined who they're going to punish. 43 And tonight you will have this situation, on public broadcasters will be guests of those who supported this Resolution, because the broadcasters publicly respond to the return of a commercial minute for 6 minutes, and on those private televisions, they won't call me again, they won't call me there, they don't call me here seven years on many televisions, they'd be us who are supposed to be against this because they would allow these private televisions to keep the monopoly and have 6 minutes of those ads, and these public broadcasters 4. So now I'm going back a little bit, and I'm going to cut short, listen to public broadcasters. What public broadcasters, who has influence on them, what public? If they were public this Parliament would say – stop once man of God, give me information why BHTV is losing 24 million marks? And will anyone mind that account at zero, and then by bankruptcy, we'll put that public service on its feet? And when I say I'm proud that TVRS has been doing positive business for the last three, four years, and there's no need for cancer, no one, no need for advertising, not even they're not going to call me on the show and they're avoiding me. That's why I'm not going to praise them or these, I'm changing things a little differently now. I ask the question why in this group, Mr. Chairman, I was recently criticised for pointing you out as, so something like me thanking you, no thanks to anyone, but why, for example, not consulting, not consulting me for knowing something, but calling me and putting me on this list, so you have one Srbin. And you say you -- here you go, and the Srbin are...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19528	I have information that you were asked to sign, but you weren't available.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19529	Who's not available?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19530	Here's the men.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19531	Well, I'm the most available person here, so call me whenever you want, I'll always come, but I'm not gonna get a call from these guys on TV, but good, good. In short, therefore, Mr. Chairman, here, colleagues have excellently elaborated what we are going to get for this resolution, and as Professor Kunić says, this is independent, and as soon as he has the opportunity to pursue them there on that committee and nothing, he can't put an end to them, not even in the end. Professor Domazet and you are a member of that Commission, and so are you, but here is the resolution you support. No, because I speak to you personally, I appreciate you as a professor of honor and economics, but unfortunately you don't have handcuffs and you don't have a bat to chase thieves who take money, so do they take from advertising, from some firm that's already failed or...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19532	Time. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19533	who does business positively, what happens to them? Here's five minutes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19534	Ambassador Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19535	Mr. Chairman. I think that with the ideas and initiatives of MPs, we should welcome them anyway. The initiative and the resolution that you have submitted, a group of MPs, it is certainly in good interest. 44 However, objectively let us get into real opportunities and say that by analysing, and now I can't remember exactly when adopting the RTBH report, the Public Service, it seems to me that with a very small percentage it participates in advertising, or it's so small that I don't think it's going to solve the problem. Much more complex is the problem at BHT service as well as at other services, and I don't think that minute and how long it will take or how long it will take for her to advertise that they will solve it. It is a much more complex problem, and I think that this Public TV service should work to make it a little different for everyone and become more visible across the whole area of BiH, which is especially what I mean about RS, and then there will certainly be more room for advertising and then there will be reasons for increasing this time interval that is planned. I'm not sure we're going to contribute to this resolution, I think it's a palitative solution, it's not someone permanent, and that's why I don't trust me, I don't think we're going to support this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19536	Thank you. The word has been given to Ambassador Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19537	Thank you, Chairman. So, at the 57th session, I asked a question about BHRT, and I got that answer, and I didn't comment on it when we started the session, but here's the thing, maybe now's the right time to say some parts of this answer. It's very difficult for us to set ourselves up against BHRT without having to, but according to BHRT, so I'm not talking about all the public broadcasters, but I'm just saying BHRT, so it's really hard for us to talk about BHRT and forget some of the facts that were for us, let's say very painful, say there's a lot more ugly, maybe that's right. I asked them why they had to pass on that session when there was a change in the Council of Ministers here, thinking that they would give me a more cultural answer than this one where they said they had the right, that they could, I knew it without them. Uh, there's been still a pre-position of position and opposition none of the sessions, as far as I know, mean since I'm an MP, but here's the one that's been on TV. And the problem is, I remember, means another Commission, because I'm a member of this Commission, too, so I remember where I asked the driver, who was there, and how and how they, here's what their biggest stumbling block is, how do they run that company and that? And then I found out that several hundred people in BHRT were working on the maintenance and security of the facilities. And then I said that if they, if that security is armed, they are a very serious armed force in BiH and that if they are those maintenance people if they are well equipped with a construction operation that they are a very serious construction firm in BiH. Because if you have 200 builders, then you're a very serious construction company, if you have 200 armed men, then you're a very serious armed force. And I mean, so don't tie me to the word, but I think it only works 80 people on a TV program. I don't think I have to, I don't think I'm 100% right, but I think it's been said that about 80 people work directly on the program. This resolution can't solve such big problems. I welcome the work of the MPs who delivered this resolution to us here, and that is good, I think the problems are far greater and should be solved. I don't know how and in what way now, so it would be unserious to give some pausing grades like this, but the problem is very serious, and I think a few sentences, which are very good in this resolution, so I have to admit, I can't solve these problems. And exactly, so it takes this problem to get a far bigger dimension and solve these problems. I don't know which political party, because I've heard it, meaning between the lines, that 45 political parties have pushed some people, so I don't know how and how that figure came to be so unproductive on BHRT, but definitely these people have a problem. I don't think BHRT should be abolished, not by any chance, means, but it needs to be transferred and what we Srbin from the RS are deeply bothered by needing far more reality. Because when, so I mentioned it, when you look at those protests that were happening here in front of this House, we can never forget the BHTR's attitude towards us. So this resolution is too mild and small, so it would be acceptable for us to have a resolution that would have to be determined according to some of these things, by noting this, that one pre-position of government, or position or opposition cannot be sent, and conveying it to all the bells from here and every word and every picture from here, and when some other parts of the position and opposition are transposed, it means no single frame. So, I'm sorry, but I'm not going to vote for this resolution either, and I think the problem is far, far bigger, and it can't be solved in a few sentences. And yet I congratulate you on your efforts, what would you do now, that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19538	So you'll be held back at the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19539	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-2.u19540	Okay. No more reports. We're closing the 13th item of the agenda. We're going to the 14th point, Ad. 14. Opinion on the Opinion of the Conclusions of the Representatives' Commission on the identification of possible irregularities and abuses and conditions at the Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH We got this proposal this morning. The Commission proposes to extend the Commission's mandate by 60 days until 28 February 2014. I would like to remind you that at the 53rd session of the House, we extended the mandate of the Commission until 31.12.2003. You've reached your conclusion. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Before we move to point 15, I suggest that the House declare itself that the debate on points 15 to 19 is united because it is about giving consent to ratify the agreement. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Vote now. We have the necessary and general and entity majority. I find that we have accepted this conclusion - 25 for, 1 against, 0 abstentions. We move to points 15 through 19, 46 Ad. 15. - 19. Giving consent to ratification of contracts and agreements
