ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17114	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 54th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies, representatives of the media. Representatives of the BiH Institutions' Audit Office and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH, whose reports are on the session's agenda, were also invited to attend the session. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from this session was justified by MPs: Milorad Živković, Božo Ljubić, Mato Franjičević, Ismeta Dervoz, Nermina Ćemalović, Anto Domazet, Emir Kabil, Drago Kalabić and Salko Sokolović, and the delay was announced by Danijela Martinović and Dragan Vrankić. 28 MPs are present, according to information from the Service. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. When it comes to changes and additions to the session agenda, I would like to mention the following. Point 22 is added to the agenda. Giving consent to ratification of the loan agreement (Cazin sewerage project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01.02-05-2-1019/13 of 24.09.2013. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. MP Beriz Belkić has applied for a discussion on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17115	So here we are, therefore, MP Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović and I, proposing to include the item of the agenda today – Information from the last session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe related to the Report on the functioning of democratic institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We know, of course, that there is a need to provide written material, but we think that this material has already been delivered to all MPs and it can be the basis for this information. So it's about the material that's talking about the functioning of democratic institutions and the motion for a resolution. 2 Let me remind you, before the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we asked that an emergency session of Parliament be convened as part of the preparation of the delegation, discussions on the Report, etc. Unfortunately, that's not what happened. We think it would be good, not if we found out from the public information funds what happened up there practically. So, the chairman of the delegations submits one brief piece of information, informing us of what practically happened up there. Here, I'll give this point of the agenda and even with a note – we all got maybe 15 days ago, 20 days ago this report and we had a chance to see the text of the resolution, but we don't know exactly what happened up there. It is the obligation of these delegations to report to this Parliament at least once a year on the sessions. Here, I deliver this item to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17116	I thank Ambassador Beriz Belkić. I find that there are no further reports regarding the debate on the agenda. We will now, as the House of Representatives, declare this proposal to extend the agenda. My suggestion is that this, given that it's the Information, is that, to be fair, we're thinking the same way, the 15th point of the agenda. Written material for this point, as Mr. Beriz Belkić said, we have already received it so that until the 15th point who wants to repeat it again or eventually get it on the bench has the opportunity to do so. So first, let's say now about this proposal by MPs Beriz Belkić and Azra Hadžiahmetović. Who's for this point to be classified as the 15th point of the agenda? Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entityal majority and that the House of Representatives has accepted this proposal by making this point the 15th point of today's 54th session of the House of Representatives. I find that the 54th Chamber of the House has the following: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 53rd session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament issues: (a) Komentarina answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. Proposal for a Law on Witness Protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-20/13, of 22.04.2013. (second reading); 4. Proposal for a law on the protection of persons who report corruption in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – MPs: Lazar Prodanović, Nermina Zaimovic-Uzunović, Azra Hadžiahmetović, Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo and Šefik Džaferović, Law No: 01-02-1-39/13, of 24.07.2013. (second reading); 3 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina – MPs: Lazar Prodanović, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Zaimović-Uzunović and Azra Hadžiahmetović, Law No: 01-02-1-40/13, of 25.07.2013. (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on indirect taxation - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-41/13, of 10.09.2013. (first reading); 7. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a law on the availability of immovable military assets - Proposers: SDPBiH and SBBBiH Club MPs, Act No: 01-02-1-27/13, of 05.06.2013. (Law in First Reading); 8. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2012, issue: 01,02-50-19-907/13, of 13.08.2013; 9. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: "conditions for effective and effective VAT control and forced debt collection", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01/4- 16-1-819/13, since 12.07.2013; 10. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Beriz Belkić to discuss information on the state of security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2012, which reads: "The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH supports and asks the BiH Council of Ministers to work on creating conditions for the implementation of the measures and the next steps indicated in the Security Information in 2012." 11. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal to carry out an individual vote on the conclusions of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH with a proposal for conclusions on the blockade of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions 05-07.06.2013, issue: 01-50-1-15-49/13, of 27.08.2013; 12. The Commission's report on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Šefik Džaferović to discuss the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH with a proposal for conclusions on the blockade of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions 05-07.06.2013; 13. The Commission's report on the Commission's efforts to reach agreement on the proposal of Parliamentarian Mladen Ivanković Lijanović for the discussion on the proposal for a Commission's conclusion on foreign trade and customs in relation to the 2012 Agriculture Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Ministry material) which reads: "It is up to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers to organise a meeting with entity prime ministers and resolution ministers of agriculture and finance within 20 days to complete the plan of activities to establish an operational IPARD structure for the use of pre-accession funds for agriculture and rural development under IPA's pre-accession assistance."14. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2012, the Council of Ministers' material number: 01.02-16-1-860/13, dated 22.07.2013; 15. Information from the last session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe related to the Report on the functioning of democratic institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 16. Proposal for appointing a member from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean; 17. Proposal for appointing members from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Francophonia Parliamentary Assembly; 4 18. Consideration of the Commission's Opinions on Finance and Budget on the Report on the Impact Review Report on the subject: "The Management of Goods taken from Customs Procedures", material of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1-820/13, since 16.07.2013; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the 2012 State Programme under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, No: 01,02-05-2-100/13, of 19/09/2013; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury (loan) and ERSTE Bank Oesterreichischen Sparkassen AG (loaner) – Project for the procurement of medical equipment for health institutions in the Unsko-San canton, issue: 01,02-05-2-1007/13, of 19.09.2013; 21. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on border crossings, No: 01,02-05-2-1009/13, of 19/09/2013; 22. The granting of approval for ratification of Treaty No 1 on the Amendment to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, concluded on 28.10.2008. (Project Corridor 5c) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-1008/13, of 19/09/2013. 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Treaty (Cazin Channelling Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No: 01,02-05-2- 1019/13 of 24.09.2013. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 53rd session of the House of Representatives You've got the record. Does he have any objections to the record? There isn't. I'm closing the first item of the agenda. I'm opening the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. MP questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17121	Well, since no one's answering their proposals, here's what I'm going to say. This is the law, therefore, in the second reading. The idea of the Law is that people who, in good faith, are in good faith, so I repeat what I said last time we talked about principles, who report corruption in BiH institutions that they can't be chicanned or have negative consequences. If that were to happen then the Law established a mechanism that would protect those persons and leave them in their position until the court's decision, and not, as is now a practice, to take them out of the institution and then to them while they are outside and while they are not in the institution waiting for justice to be granted by the court. So this is the basic idea of the law. It was realised, there were several amendments by colleagues Prodanović and co-worker Uzunovic-Uzunović-Zaimović Nermine. The amendments were discussed on the Constitutional Legal Commission, and most of the amendments were adopted because they related to improving the text of the Law. I think the law after these amendments is clearer and more complete. I suggest that the House of Representatives adopt this law in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17122	I thank Ambassador Džaferović. The word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17123	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I have a problem when I get into a position where we have a law that has 15 members and 11 amendments arrive at it. If we were consistent then we would say – if more than 50% of the laws change, a new law needs to be made. Even worse, the amendment's proposal is given by people who have made six draft laws. This means that they were not initially patient and diligent enough to include what they later thought of saying, so they remembered later. That's even worse in terms of hasty as we do. I suggest that today we not vote on this law but also deliver the Law and the amendment proposal to the Council of Ministers, hear their position and then we can raise our hand peacefully after this Law. We're not gonna lose anything that we're gonna postpone for the next session but we're gonna stop the inconsistencies that can happen when the law works like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17124	Thank you. We have two replicas. Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17125	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. A group of MPs worked on this Law for a long time. I joined at the end of that work by reviewing the Law, giving my consent and putting my signature under the text of this Law. It is true that there are this number of amendments, but fundamental changes are in two or three members, there are legal and technical amendments that follow these fundamental changes throughout the text. Thus, there is no problem in this day’s consideration and adoption of the Law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17126	Replica, MP Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17127	I thank the chairman. Here, I will mention on the proposal from my colleague Majkić – it would be wonderful if the Council of Ministers really gave us an opinion on the laws proposed by parliamentarians. But here, I have before me one piece of paper relating to the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Freedom of Information Act. So, this Parliament sent the bill to the Council of Ministers, while mentioning the Law we adopted on 19 September, and the Council of Ministers gave us the opinion of the 24th September, so after the Law was adopted in the second reading. We can refer, therefore, to the Council of Ministers but that is, this situation speaks of the Council of Ministers' relationship with this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17128	Is anyone else answering for a hearing? The word is from Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17129	Dear Chairman, distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I just want to say, I didn't do Mrs. Majkić's, either, but to confirm what the distinguished colleague said, after the first reading, there were a lot of misunderstandings. And I never adjust my discussion to portals, especially those anti-Serb portals that in every way possible we're cherries and I don't know what they don't write, but that's their thing, not to the media. So, right now, to be clear, I speak for myself, but I will also mention to the party, the SNSD is not against this law. And if we did an analysis, and if it were, I think the SNSD would be the last party to love its staff, its members, its sympathisers. It is known who did it and in which years, after the war, when the flood of employment started on the party and family lines. So, right away to be clear, I also said in my first reading when we had the Law, I'm going to vote for this law because I absolutely have no interest in being against it, but I'm asking the question of what the effects of this Law will be. This is just passing laws for the sake of the law that we have him. The results of this Law, as we have made many others, will remain that some other assembly of Parliament is considering how we have made a hundred decisions, conclusions that have not bound anyone and which have remained a dead letter on paper, as they say, and that citizen who listens to this or who will once read somewhere, and we who have been chosen by the representatives of the people. And to finish, I'm giving my support to this law, but right now, I'm gonna say no one will ever be of any use to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17130	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17131	Thank you, Chairman. I would accept what Mrs. Majkić suggested if we had a Council of Ministers that was effective, who once heard this Parliament. In fact, he denies everything we require. So we've reached a conclusion here on two occasions. So Parliament has made two decisions to offer the Council of Ministers the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Ministers and other civil servants, as this has been dragging on for almost a year. The Council of Ministers is not responding. So, the serious problem is Parliament's relationship with the executive government, a very serious problem. Now, whether it is the domination of the leaders, and MPs execute those decisions, it is a more complex issue, and even sociologically to process it. Why am I, why am I going to vote for this law? I mean, it takes him a long time ago in these places. There's a mobing going on here, I don't say inconcretely, therefore, in this House, but there is one here. But we live in an environment where a drastic mobbing of people is conducted, drastically. No Niko's answering anyone. Directors, therefore, executive civil servants are brought on a party basis, uneducated, with no knowledge, the harsh law is taken into their own hands. So, where are we? I say we're in a worse situation today than we were in the '90s right after the war. When I hear from people what they're saying, what kind of mobbing 8 is going on over them, that's terrible. And none of us should be indifferent to accepting it and saying, as it is true in Bosnia, what I don't care about is me, what I care, it's his problem, it's not my problem. I'll coordinate the relationship so he doesn't touch me. But one day it's touching, so it's not right for people to be scribbled on a variety of grounds. And that's why I'm voting for this. Well, of course the law can be broader, so it covers many other situations in practice that arise, but the first law is, so I hope that at least around that law we will find common ground with the first amendments and additions. So that's why I'm up for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17132	I find that there are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the fourth item of the agenda. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina – MPs: Lazar Prodanović, Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović and Azra Hadžiahmetović (second reading) I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on indirect taxation - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17135	Well, here's a little bit. So, I understand and I will support this law in my first reading. I'm talking about motives, so it's trying to make the law more transparent and that what's most important is to try through these changes and complement the action of the businessmen. But I don't know if there's anyone in front of the promoter, so I have a few dilemmas and questions. If there's no hope it'll come to them in some way. So, first of all, I don't know if there have been any consultations that he insists on all the time. So, nine consultations and with the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board. When it comes to the Law on the Direct Taxation System, it is mandatory to agree under the Law, and probably this Law deserves and merits the position of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority. That's one thing. It explains that this law does not cost, that it does not produce financial effects. Absolutely not, because this is about changing the rate and reducing BiH's income, reducing taxis. So, this Law produces financial consequences and it would be good if the Proposer, if not now until the second reading, told us that the proposer is telling us what the consequences of the adoption of this Law are in terms of the inflow of budgetary resources. And what particularly confuses me when it comes to it, I support absolutely that this legal possibility of publishing data on indirect tax bonds, but I have one vagueness. Thus, in norms, the law itself states that, that the data refers to dues and unpaid debts, and in the light of this, the data refers to those persons who have already opened the procedure for forced collection. So if only persons are published where the mandatory collection procedure is open, we haven't done anything. I hope it was still thought of these whose claims came and were not charged. Here's the Secretary of the Commission here, so I hope, and I will, of course, have the opportunity when it comes to second reading that I may be acting amendmentally. Here, anyway, I'll support it, but here, these are the things I'd like to make clear to me until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17136	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17137	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Here, we have a rare opportunity to discuss the Law on indirect taxation, given the very, very specific complexity in the adoption of the Law and in the amendments and additions to the Law itself. So this law is otherwise adopted by procedure when neither the Council of Ministers nor parliamentarians can propose it unless they previously ensure the consent of the Board of Impaired Taxation. And we in this particular case have a bill that has arrived from the Management Board of the Implicit Taxation Board, which, as a intent, is positive. He's the chairman of the board of directors. One of the institutions that gave opinion to this Act is the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, which in its entire opinion expressed reservations against this Act. It is interesting that the same person is a signator of both, but ultimately supported the proposal to amend and supplement the law. Dear counterpart Kunić, through a proposal from another law, has recently identified a serious problem in the first place – the relationship between the institutions, all the institutions of the executive authority in this House. And here I am, through the discussion of the principles of this law, going to say that this relationship here is particularly inappropriate. This is about a law that's pure financial law. So instead of one rate of tight interest, it's proposed to introduce a second rate. We don't have 10 indicators of the effects of this act anywhere in the light of the law. If we reduce the tight rate we're going to help in absolute terms, if this is the intention of helping the economy because of the severe economic crisis, how much we're going to help economic operators. If we are going to help them, for that same amount, it is expected that the budget of the BiH institutions, or budget, will be reduced to be more precise, a single account. We don't have these key indicators, so how much less charge is going to be and where we're going to make up for it in the budget. We were told in the Committee that there are terrible reserves in the Administration and that it will not be a problem. Well, if those reserves exist, they're not used beyond the need to change the law, if they exist, right? The third thing, I doubt the good intentions of the promoter, and I say it openly – I doubt it, because I don't think this measure will help any single economic operator in BiH. In my understanding of this situation, tight interest is the consequence, not the cause, they are the consequence of the fact that tax bonds are harder to meet their obligations, and then the need to account for tight interest rates. No one does anything on the cause. No one knows anything, or no one will suggest anything. So we are not going to help these economic operators who are unable to settle their obligations because of the severe economic crisis. I'm talking about those who want to and aren't getting up. On the other hand, this reduction of tight interest, we brought it very close to commercial interest rates, so we will encourage those who do not want to pay taxes not to pay taxes, because they are almost as tight and commercial interest them, and then why would they try to settle their obligations in time, will be easier, and when they take the loan, they will get the same money in another way. Third or fourth, or I don't know which more thing in a row, is the relationship. It is said in the amendment to Article 52 that the data on indirect taxes are particularly confidential and that they cannot be delivered to anyone alive except one part of the institutions, the authorities, when they co-operate with the Indirect Tax Administration. And you know what's interesting, it's listed there by the judicial institutions, by the executive institutions, there's no exception that these data can be delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly. Which means that it is forbidden to supply that information to the Parliamentary Assembly because they are confidential. And that's what I'm saying for one reason only, so it's the same relationship with the entity parliaments, I'm talking about one relationship between the motionors and the institution of Parliament. The person who explained this bill to us explained it – yes, that's right, we've lost it. They seem to have lost it to propose this Law, for this Law is obviously not going to help those to whom it is called, that because of them it is in the proposal. This Law can encourage those who do not want to pay taxes and this Law is essentially a law for the sake of the law, not to repair some situation in the economy, not to improve the situation in the area of indirect taxes. So I've been abstentioned on the Commission, and here I will be against the proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17138	I thank Ambassador Lozančić. The word has an poslanik, Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ministers, fellow MPs, please allow me to welcome you. 11 At the Commission on Finance and Budget, we discussed the law mentioned and agreed and found that not enough elements were given in the light of such proposals. One of the key elements is to comply with entity regulations, which I think is a good thing. Secondly, we had to take out some calculations for ourselves, see how much it is on the annual level, what kind of savings it is, etc. We were told there that the total debt to the Department of Direct Taxation was 347 million. We don't know how small they are, how small they are, what period of time they owe them, these data are missing. And no wonder about the relationship to Parliament, what Mr. Lozančić said, there and they have no obligation to inform us at all when they deliver that information. I think the promoter had to make sure that whoever passed the laws and whoever was most responsible in BiH, and in his jurisdiction, I guess he should be informed first. But here they went with the thesis that the Council of Ministers is the one who will oblige the Parliamentary Assembly. And I think it's one of the mistakes. So then we take out the accounts, instead of you annually, which was 18%, it's now down to 14%, and that's what's going to get closer to the commercial loans they're giving, the interest that the credit banks are giving, and then the question is how successful and effective this measure is going to be. We will, here's what I'm going to say, but again we have to count, which is wrong, all the data you should do, and that's the proposal to the Council of Ministers – take care when you propose the law to give us enough arguments in detail with the elements that we don't draw them out. So I had to count for myself, and I'm not sure how good that is. But from 6, to 0.06, from 0.04 is about 30% reduction. If he was in debt for $14 million, then he'll set it free for about $4 million. So 4 million will be relieved of the economy, i.e. those who are in debt, etc. But don't let us count on it anymore, let's get these elements and we can make good decisions. As far as the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats is concerned, we will support this Law in our first reading, and if necessary, we will respond to some things and to amendments, but in any case, it is good to level the criteria with entities and it is good to release those who are objectively difficult to live on an annual basis. But what else is missing? There's one estimate missing here how objectively, realistically of 347 million, how realistic is it that it's chargeable? You may have a mass of companies that have closed or gone bankrupt or otherwise unable to isolate these assets, so then it's a free incentive of any kind if their accounts are blocked. In that direction, and we miss that information, and I think that would give us a better quality law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17140	I thank Ambassador Tomić. Ambassador Petar Kunić applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17141	Thank you, Chairman. I agree completely with my predecessors regarding the substance implications. However, let me say when this Parliament, when this state, or its executive bodies, will propose amendments and amendments to laws that do not comply with the fundamental principles of the rule of law, will have a fundamental 12 principles of its legal system. How can the Direct Taxation Authority agree on amendments to Parliament's law? Well, that's not in Tungusia, gentlemen dear. There's no such thing in Tungusia. And we all listen to it here and watch it, we criticize it all the time. Well, let's give the executive power to propose amendments to the law of that. Suggest amendments to the law proposed in time by one stranger for some of their pragmatic reasons. Well, the best controller and the safest use of financial resources is the Parliamentary Assembly. It doesn't have to be this one, it may be next, but we have to change that, my people. Well, where can one administrative organization, so in the hierarchical structure of the state's body, it has the status of an administrative organisation, be able to give an opinion on changes to the law? It's a catastrophic thinking. And we let it go, it goes on, someone's insinuating it goes on. Normally, let it be proposed to change. Well, it cannot stop the administrative organisation from Parliament changing and passing laws, by hierarchical structure, based on fundamental principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17142	Thank you. Replica, MP Beriz Belkić. And the rest of you in the O.R., I'm gonna ask them to stop talking. Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17143	Well, I totally agree with Mr. Kunić when it comes to practices he doesn't even have in
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17144	Last line, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17145	Some parts, but I would remind Mr. Kunić that this is the result of the entity's relationship to the functioning of the state. Therefore, according to the agreement reached and was the basis for the adoption of the Law on the indirect taxation system, entities, and especially the RS, insisted that this be introduced into the Agreement and put into force in the Law. So, the clarifications work. Therefore, it was not this Parliament that created it, but it was well-rated, or conditioned that this Law would not be passed unless it was incorporated, that is, the position of the Management Board.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17146	The word is from Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I think this bill on amending the Law on indirect taxation, reducing these rates, means tightening interest from 0.06% to 0.04%, and means changing this, means starting a new procedure, this kind of fine of 10% to cut by 5%, we're certainly not getting anything with this. All those taxpayers, here and today we have on... By reviewing the impact of the IRS, we will see that we have one and another problem here. All those taxpayers who can pay taxes, which are solvable, I'm convinced 13 that they pay it neatly and in time. To these things a lot, which have obvious problems with their business, these 0.06 or 0.04% don't mean much to them or better to them, it doesn't mean anything to them at all. Eventually, those who follow taxes, who are in charge of it, I think we should record and help these people in some other ways and not put them in a position, in a state that they don't pay taxes at all. So there's a possibility of malfeasance. It's true that some people are deliberately not going to pay taxes. But today, those who can't objectively, the real debt problem, the real debt, not these tight interest rates. We have one situation today that, I think, it seems to me that this is in the Federation, that there is a debt of various companies on a variety of grounds, about 1,250,000 marks, 1.250.00 marks with various budgets, from the Institute of Health Insurance, the Institute of the Unemployment, the Pensions, the income tax. And now you need to see, you can make those people who haven't paid those obligations charge this tight interest every day, but I've seen exactly the debt on these basiss of these daily tight interest rates. They can't return the principals. Therefore, this is a much more complex one problem to be entertained, all finance ministers, all tax directors and directors of indirect taxation and, of course, parliaments, both entity and state, to pass the necessary laws to bring this kind of long internally down into some real frameworks, rather than... So I'm saying that this is, I won't say as often as my colleague Slavko Jovičić says, the law on, a dead letter on paper that can't be carried out. This one is being implemented, but I'm afraid the effects of such a law, that this law will not help anyone. I'll support this law anyway. These kind of already provisions here and numbers exist. This will make it easier for a team that can't reconcile, so there will be fewer punishments for them, which they can't, and they're already punished because they can't, is there, and then we'll punish them further. But here we need to have a little conversation in a whole other way that has led to these obligations. Today is the generator of the economic crisis primarily of the state, public institutions, because they do not reconcile obligations to their suppliers, performers or I do not know. In this direction, we must make the laws modelly, and we tend and often talk about European countries, that the state must meet its obligations within a certain deadline. Well, then we can eventually and someone who does business... for the state, the million-dollar, 50 million marks, so his country is late for a variety of payments, months, not to say for years, is he, too, and he has to go somewhere we say, is he, late and break, to possibly survive on the market. Here, these are about as complex and complex as these things, and I don't think we're going to do anything about this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17148	Thank you. Ambassador Petar Kunić has a correction to the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17149	Oh, here, let me look back at this finding from Mr. Belkić. I'm getting... entities have insisted something and I don't see at all the reason, rational reason why entities 14 would be against the Paralment passing laws without interference. [[Disable microphone]] Do you know what the problem is? I'm usually honest, so I'll tell you. The interest is executive structures, so the entity minister has, I don't know, 2,500, how many, which is met in two months, so the Management Board meets in two months once, I'm giving the possibility that maybe more often, but I don't think so, and the BiH Finance Minister, who is a member of this Management Board, who gets considerable, substantial funds. And we're looking at it, and in our opinion you're pounding all the time that we have high wages, etc., and we're watching how they receive these amounts. And why are they receiving? Officially, they should attend the board of directors, not have such fees. Is that reasonable? It's not reasonable. Well, we all know that, so let's get it over with. I'm the first one for that. So please, why take so much money? Officially, they are required to meet and coordinate certain views. And that's why. And the foreigners knew our mentality well, they learned, and here we will give you so much so that they agree and accept such a concept of the law. So it's a formula, it's a model of managing this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17150	rieč has MP Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, I only wanted to join for one simple reason. Believe me, not because of the situation I'm in, but otherwise in life I say I've been bad with the economy, but I'm saying I'm very good and great with logic. It's just that, you know, it's just that, you know, I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... Do we, these discussions and the presentations of our opinions on one of these decisions of a commission, of course, about the proposal of this law that is spoken of, do we automatically acknowledge that we are a very bad state when it comes to the tax policy which is the synonym of every state, a sacred letter in every country. You older people who have a little more age than I do well remember the affair, let's say the one that is still the boss today when it comes to the world economy, which is the United States, which means being a taxpayer in the U.S. I think we understand what I'm talking about. So, did we really agree to this bad tax policy, to cheat on ourselves, what our people would say as in the market, is someone going to pay the debt they have to pay to the state, or are we going to cheat on it with any kind of relief and pay as much as they can and when they can? A very, very bad policy. It's true that some of these people who said this is spinning in a vicious circle. We all owe each and every one of us, when you look from any angle. And of course, someone like this would tell creative procedures in tax policy to improve the situation, believe me, on the very logic of common sense, which is very little in use in this country, that this law, as someone says, will bring anything or change anything. It can be tax mahera, which are very good at all this, only to support that they continue to do what they're doing. And tax policy, eh about it some other time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17152	Thank you. Ambassador Slavko Jovičić has a word. Here you go. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So let me just underline, as the distinguished colleague Boško Tomić said, we will support this Law in our first reading. But I'm setting up only one thesis and here in a few sentences of clarification, that problems, and I'm going to call them that, with the Indirect Taxation Administration, are not of the motion to amend and supplement this law and this session. In the past, we have sought to put amendments, at least in a certain part, to rule, not to rule over the indirect taxation administration, but to give importance to Parliament, which is responsible for the overall policy and the adoption of all laws in BiH. Let me tell you right now that we didn't make it. But here, by some hierarchy, by looking at the Directorate for indirect taxation as an administrative organization should be the fourth somewhere in order. So the fourth ones, then the Ministry of the Third, then the Council of Ministers the second and we headed as the first. But here it's the other way around. The fourth-placers are in first place, because we can't change anything without their consent and even their opinions, and here's what they're proposing. This would all be good, but it's not just about the tight interest here, or I don't know anyone, when these things they do are practically choked. Who's making what here, who's exporting what? Do we have those parameters? Under the proposal of this law, we don't have any amendments and additions to this law. So that's the point. And in order not to now, I say since this session, we've only had objections to the Directorate for indirect taxation or their great powers, which someone has given them without us, of course. When I say without us, thinking from some of the previous, previous Parliament's calls, which they thought would bring together the most of the entities, and BiH, and institutions, and I don't know what, so I guess they thought, who's saying – if there's one register and they're going to give these little, little ones, and they're all going to be happy at the end. Here's the end of the day. Everyone's unhappy. So, I'm finishing up, we're going to give support to first reading, we're going to try to amend something, but the special point of the agenda should be, not in the context of the amendments and the addition of this law, on the functioning of the Directorate for indirect taxation. And there, through other reports, we had reports of stockpiling, and confiscation of goods, customs of goods, sales, tax collection, smuggling at the border, I don't know how to make love to these and those who were fired workers, anything or anything. So, a comprehensive topic, so I don't know if one thematic session would solve all these issues. But since an MP's opinion here means nothing, so I don't take your time, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17154	Thank you. The word has an MP, Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17155	Thank you. As far as this law is concerned, I believe that any change that leads to and leads to the resolution of existing problems, particularly in an institution such as the Administration of indirect taxation, should be welcomed and supported. However, in Article 52, when it comes to the confidentiality of data on indirect taxes, I believe that it is possible for the applicant to enter into a series of these items who may receive data when it comes to any malfeasance, violations, etc. And here 16 it is obvious that we MPs are not listed here. I believe that it is definitely necessary and should be respected and entered, we will see this below, because this is only the first reading, but I believe that... the information that I, as an MP, too, is just being analysed and knowing the Law on Value Added Tax, in contact with friends, with employees of the Administration of indirect taxation, I get the impression, I get the information, at the end of the public, not to say the words, the media, every day we witness that at the border crossings there are a variety of smaller, larger malversions, which I think any malversion, if it is found out and found out, is not bad that even these employees in some way are not so rigorously punished if they bring something out. I don't think anything that's illegal should be on the other side of the sentence if you talk about it anywhere. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17156	Thank you. I find that there are no more reports. I'm closing the debate on the sixth item of the agenda. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a law on the availability of immovable military assets - Proposers: SDPBiH and SBBBiH Club MPs (the law in first reading) At the 53rd session of the House, held on 19/09/2013, this proposal for a law was sent to the College as the Commission for approval. The college didn't achieve consent, and there's no debate here. Before we move to the eighth item of the agenda, I'm giving a 10 minute break and calling a session of the extended college right now. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17160	I'm giving priority to my colleague, Majkić. I don't know how this got here.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17161	Thank you. The word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17162	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable High Court and Prosecutorial Council president and his associates. Here, I'm glad that today we have the opportunity, first that the President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is present here today, and secondly, that this important document, which the Parliamentary Assembly discusses once a year, should we say a few words. As you can see, there's a large document, I'd say there's too many tables and sometimes we don't see the woods from the trees. But anyone who wanted to see what the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is talking about and what the situation in the judiciary is, not only in 2012, but it is a diagnostic of the situation where we are in the BiH judiciary. Many times so far, we have found that the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. parliamentary and executive powers, have no jurisdiction over the functioning of the judicial system, and on the other hand, the independent regulator, i.e. the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, has no responsibility for the situation in the judicial system. It's the facts we're worried about. And that is why I was intrigued by this first page in which, in addition to the obligation to deliver a report by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to representatives of the executive and legislative authorities at the level of BiH and entities, 13 international institutions and embassies are also delivered. This means that the situation in the judiciary is explained in the same way to foreigners who were key actors in judicial reform, as well as to those who need to be explained where the country is going when it comes to the judicial system. What I think should be particularly encouraged is that this system of representatives of the RS has so far said on many occasions that they do not support it, because a system that does not support the executive and parliamentary power cannot even trust citizens, and we know that without the confidence of citizens in the judiciary there is no democracy of a country and we know where we are when it comes to democracy in BiH. What does the report say? He says again for five years we've already had about the same view that the largest number of cases, unfinished objects, are related to acts related to municipal objects. So a little more than 2 million and 100,000 unsolved items, of which 1,600,000 are those related to municipal objects. And... the question being asked – why is the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council dealing with matters of municipal matters? Why is it that for five years in a row, we have their attitude that says that due attention will be paid and that this problem will be resolved as soon as possible? And finally -- why is the problem not being delivered to the entity justice system that has a much more effective way of solving it than this, as the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council shows us? In accordance with Article 3. The law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council somewhere states that it is an independent and independent body tasked with ensuring an independent, impartial and professional judiciary, as stated in Article 17. The law. And as the impartial and professional judiciary 18 does, the following information speaks. On page 58. Reports are described as assessing the work of judges and prosecutors. Among other things, it is said that the High Court and Prosecutorial Council assessed the successful work of the president of the Federation Supreme Court, the President of the Supreme Court of the RS and the President of the Court of Appeal of the Brcko District. There is not a word about the work of the president of the BiH Court who refuses to report his work and writes to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council that he has no intention and has no right to assess its work. So one president of the court has been refusing to report on his work to the institution, who has twice elected him to the post. It's not just that the situation in court is what I'm saying, but it seems to me the problem is that because the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, as a regulator, is doing nothing to get rid of this situation. I believe that in the course of his presentation, the President of the Court will. He can tell us if all this evidence is that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council doesn't manage the justice system, whether there's no mechanism or not to face all the problems that will be discussed here. Does this mean that the judiciary is out of control, because if the President of the Court doesn't want to report to the regulator, where is the judiciary, to whom does it suit? If it is possible for years to judge only one nation according to the law that came after the execution of the crime where we are, do we not rightly say that the judiciary is working against the Serb people? Goran Salihović's behaviour is increasingly similar to that, which has been put directly as an element, not only in the defence of a nation, but in one party. Is that the justice we've been making all these years? And finally -- how much will this haughtiness of the President of the Court cost this country when, now after what the Court of Justice has done in Strasbourg and then the Constitutional Court of BiH, when is the review of all the judgments rendered so far? How much is that gonna cost, and who's gonna be the one to blame? Not the president of the court, she will in the meantime, her mandate will expire and move on to a new position. That's for sure. Why don't we process cases that have been standing for years? Why is the D.A. still sleeping? And why hasn't Dudaković been processed yet? Why is he released from Mehmedović's custody? Why are investigations stopped and objections are being settled for dobrovoljački, tuzlanski and many other cases? Why does the prosecutor's office have no money to continue digging in the Buća Potok at a dump where traces of Serbians have been found, who have been wanted for years, and there is at the same time to find money when it comes to Bosniak victims. Is that the justice we're building? If I were the president of the Bosniak people, I'd probably try my best, but in that position it can't remain true. No one can believe and be convinced of what the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office are saying. The President of the Court and the chief prosecutor communicate with Parliament through the media. Well, isn't that the way, wasn't it much more useful that they sat down and asked to turn around and talk about it? The blockade of one country's institutions is a shameful act and can only happen in a country like this. And that the prosecutor, or the cantonal, or the chief prosecutor who knowingly didn't go to the counsel he was scheduled, would not happen to have someone give a warrant to launch an investigation into it. So it's all a big farce and all the masks fell long ago. Finally, what was the last thing that really happened and what I would like the President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to say is -- how did the High Court and Prosecutorial Council not react to the direct attack of the chief prosecutor on the work of prosecutors in the prosecution? This means that he now prescribes that all charges, orders to conduct an investigation, plea agreements and requests for special investigations must be initialled before they are sent. Isn't that a threat to the work of prosecutors? 19
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17163	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17164	Here, let me just finish. So a lot of things could be said but I don't have that much space. I find this report as it is not responding to the essential questions that I ask here and which are often the subject and I think that, I expect, in the course of this, the president himself will answer some of these questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17165	Thank you. Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović has a correction to the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17166	Look, I didn't mean to answer this part of the agenda at all because it was expected this kind of discussion by my colleague Majkić. Namely, I'm going to have to refresh her memory, I'm not released from custody, namely I'm illegally detained and detained. And that if, and what she announced, three days before it happened in 19/07, in some RS media, it says enough that some agencies are actually working on the orders of the political centres of power from the RS. If some of the institutions do not act according to your wishes, Mrs. Majkić and some of your colleagues, then it is necessary to bring them down. You, if you're going to tear down the Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Court, bring it down in one political way, in a cultural way in accordance with democratic principles, don't over my back. You achieve your political intentions according to your capabilities, but in any case I do not allow you to mention my name in that context. Because if you want us to open up questions and your participation in the war, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17167	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17168	Of course, I've been reading some information about you, too, but I would be very happy to present them here to Parliament if you insist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17169	Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17170	If I'd done what Mr. Mehmedović did, kicking Serbian heads, she'd have been in a place that would have been reserved for those in every state of law. If I was the commander in the area where this amount of weapons were found, my guilt would have been questioned long ago and 20 would have been known to be where I am. There is no man in this country who has as much sin as he who dares to answer his word at all. So no, that's enough for any further comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17171	Second replica, MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17172	Unfortunately, I have to go to the monstrous structures of Majkićka, which I read in the media from the RS that she said several times, I have to react because it is not like my personality and my morale, Mrs. Majkić. For your information, I've never been any commander. So, you should have at least a little bit of what you're minimally informing if you want to discuss this thing, and I'm very happy to talk to you publicly about this thing because I have both cheeks and I have to talk about it. Because here tomorrow, tomorrow is the day of shelling, or air-bombing, right from the territory you're coming from, to Teshanj where eight children died. You didn't mention it, so like a Muslim child, they're balian children, as you often say, you know. As Muslim blood is not as valuable as any other blood, etc. So, I'm gonna look you and each of you in the eye for all the events during, here's '92. '95. A year. I'm very proud of that period in my life, for your information.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17173	The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17174	So, the atmosphere, otherwise, not only at this session, and perception when we talk about this third pillar of power here in our Parliamentary Assembly is not very encouraging for the work of the judicial authorities, including the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. Perhaps the chairman could intervene this kind of replica, in a business sense perhaps warn you not to go in this direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17175	You have experience in this respect, you know how it goes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17176	Well, I took as much as I could, fought to get the debate back where we planned to lead it. So, we're talking about this High Court and Prosecutorial Council report. So, I can conclude that this report as well as these so far has been very correctly done and it allows for one simple way to be familiar with the activities that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council carried out and processed almost all segments, it was not only about the court, cases, etc., but about the overall organisation, functioning etc. And it's absolutely acceptable to me and I welcome, so all the efforts the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is working to establish is an effective, transparent, professional system. 21 Around these communal objects that Mrs. Majkić was talking about, I see that there is some progress, that... this electronic trial is being implemented, etc., and I hope that hundreds of thousands of these cases will be resolved. However, I have reported most of all to say, although it is certain that many of us here think differently, that here is the key problem of reducing these funds to the functioning of the judiciary and that practically from year to year we are becoming less, in a relative sense, singled out in relation to costs, to requests, objects, etc., and it will be likely, if not already, although in this report explicitly does not say so, but it will be a very quick key problem for further functioning of these institutions. We simply won't provide enough resources to raise the system to the level that society needs right now. I would especially point out here that the funding of these cantonal justice is in great difficulty, as far as I could tell from the report. I have warned before that some laws in the field of justice, not only on the Law on the Court, the Prosecutor's Office, etc., but on the laws on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and some other laws concerning the judiciary, that we did not obtain the opinion of the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, which, in my opinion, is a failure and we missed, and the obligation is ultimately, we failed to have one expert, so to speak, an expert opinion which, I'm sure, would help us to make quality solutions. Surely there remains this problem and difficulties that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has not been too apostropheal about this harmonisation of regulations. That's the result of what I'm talking about. So entities, etc., are passing laws that aren't exactly harmonised and then the system isn't efficient and it has problems. Surely, I also support what this was about, if it was carefully looked at that High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, and I am encouraging them and asking them to do this, perhaps even before, to measure fortification, norming someone, etc., because we have a constant question about who is assessing, whether it is done, whether it is done, to try this with some explicit indicators, I hope that you and I will agree we have a negative perception of the system as a whole, and also according to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. I am convinced that this perception is not based on arguments, but I therefore need people to be reassured or in a concrete way to prove that this system works and works, that it is transparent and that it does not favor any people, any political option, etc. And around this structural dialogue, this is the information we have, no one speaks negatively of it, but it has no results. When it's over, what's it about? So, I support it, it's all right, but we can't go to infinity. Do we have what or don't we have anything we can do or can't do? And I say that, be sure that there are people, there is understanding here in Parliament, but you must also have some arguments, some facts of things to prove, here I mean the courts of BiH, and also the prosecution. I understand independence, I don't think I'm involved in asking, that this, that, but I need to know, a citizen needs to know what the BiH Court is doing, what the prosecution is doing, etc. However, we entertain ourselves with personal solutions, we constantly burden the system and us here, did this say this, did this announcement come out, did he come to the session, didn't he come in, and there's really no end there. In any case, of course, I support that capacity in which we treat these reports, I support your work, but I say once again I recommend to you, and to you and 22 of the system, that as much as possible be transparent, that you affirm the results you make, that some of the shortcomings that exist to deal with them, to get to know the public, to solve etc. And around these financial resources, we must really, in a more serious way, approach and realistically assess how much the function of the justice system in general depends on the third pillar of the government on the financial resources that have been available to you so far and what you can offer to society in general. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17177	Thank you. The word has been sent by Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's what I'd like to say for a few of my visions about the report that's now on the agenda. That happiness, as it is not in this country, is that on these occasions, once a year we are considering the report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, we are considering and making a comparison of how far BiH has progressed as a rule of law compared to some previous reports and compared to previous years with the reports and the facts given here in the Report. Unfortunately, this is not the case for this report, although it is large enough and contains many pages, it cannot be concluded that BiH has progressed on that third segment, that is, in the third pillar of the government in this country, in addition to the executive and legislative ones, so in the judicial authority. This is becoming even more tragic and worrying in the situation where you know and understand that both legislative and executive powers are based, as on legal and political grounds, while the judicial authority in the state should be based solely on the law and on the professionality of those who perform those duties. The report, which is before us, therefore formally contains all those segments that one report should contain, and of course it sought to be put in place, to provide all the information that the Judiciary and Prosecutor's Council had in terms of analysis of the work of all judicial and prosecutorial institutions, from municipal to state level. But what you can't help but notice when you're reading this report is that it's almost there, so I'd say 50% of the matter that's given in this report is dedicated to some of the things that you're supposed to be doing in the 21st century, which is, I don't know, improving the information system, connecting courts and suing through the Internet, creating a central register of input documents in courts and prosecutors and so on. As an MP, I am less interested in whether, as indicated here, a defence monitoring module under official duty in courts, but I am much more interested in the results of certain judicial and prosecutorial institutions in this country, which unfortunately cannot be seen from this Report except in certain tables and figures that are given. This is not disputed, therefore, given tabularly what the judicial and prosecutorial institutions have done, but in a fundamental sense, therefore, whether they as the judicial authorities in this country contributed to BiH becoming a more legal state, it cannot be seen from this report. This is what we expect as a legislator to tell us, there you have the situation, so that some courts and prosecutors, of course, regularly withdraw funds from the municipal to state-level budgets as a wolf, some even demand an increase in 2013, when 23 many budget users have suffered a reduction in budgets, the court and the prosecution have received an increase, the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, so they have received an increase and therefore have reduced performance and reduced labour performance compared to some previous years. Of course, for such results that are not good and are not what is expected and what is required of judicial institutions, the essential thing and the formulation that is set up is the responsibility of judges. The responsibility of judges and prosecutors, which was the main reason and the reason why the SNSD Club has run for the laws to abolish the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, because we believe that these are the two heavy stones around the door that this country is pulling and which the BiH taxpayers are paying dearly, so I am expensively undersinuating it, so they pay dearly for the results we get from them. But, of course, that responsibility is somewhere, as I would say, in some haze, in fluid findings in this report, and of course not a single moment arises, the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which is responsible for them, who chooses and resolves them, does not ask what will happen to such judges and prosecutors. The example of such poor work is certainly, we have repeatedly argued from the SNSD, certainly the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. And, therefore, all of this I said earlier may in some way, although in minimal parts, lead the BiH Prosecutor's Office to give certain information, the facts of what it was doing, how much money it spent, but unfortunately for the BiH Court of Justice, there is very little. Here, we have now heard from the presentation of my colleague, i.e. it is known and seen, that the President of the Court of Justice of BiH refuses to give information about it, because she obviously considers herself superior to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and in relation to this Parliament and to all others who should know something about the results of that institution that she represents and whose president she is. When you mention the BiH Court of Justice, of course, that at this point you cannot bypass and you cannot be immune to, that is, not to mention the situation of July this year when the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg reached a verdict in the Maktouf-Maktouf-Damjanović case and that a few days ago, the BiH Constitutional Court ordered that all the rulings of the Court of BiH be returned to review. I know that you will now say from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council that this is the 2012 report, but I am now asking you a direct question here and asking for an answer – whether the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has considered the situation and position of the President of the Court whose verdicts have been brought under question and why BiH may have any consequences on the international side. We are all witnesses of what Europe, the Council of Europe and what, how much BiH is shaking because of the verdict of Sejdić and Finc. Because of all the persons who went to the Strasbourg Court and it is highly doubtful whether they will ever be in a position to be members of the BiH presidency, but BiH must execute that verdict however they may never be, but it must execute the verdict. And what about the verdict that calls into question and disproves the most judicial institutions in one country? Well, you don't have to be a legal professional and a legally educated man, and the layman knows when a judge is convicted, so be it the Court of Justice, which is the lowest instance, when one judge's verdicts are refuted, and when his verdict is lifted, more cases such as the District Court and the Supreme Court, to question the professional reputation of such a judge, and that the President of the Court must consider the situation of that judge if he has at a certain time period of overthrow and abolishing his judgments. And then, of course, there's too much of any comment right now. Of course, the question remains for you – what do you think about this situation, about this position, and what BiH will experience, that is, taxpayers of this state when they have to pay compensation to people who will certainly get it when these judgments of the Court of Justice of BiH are revised. 24 I, when I said in one situation before, in some of my previous discussions, and now I say it responsibly, that if anything in this country is the reason for our mutual differences, then it will be the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. I know this is going to happen now that I said that some of you are going to pick up from the scene automatically, but you have to be aware of those facts. In order for this country to make progress, indeed, to advance as a legal state, you from the Federation must accept the fact and reality that the biggest problem in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH is the judicial authority in this country, and which, of course, needs to provide justice, justice and everything else that these institutions need to provide, that one state is legal and that every citizen in it feels secure. But of course, now we are also coming to a finding, that is, it is so obvious and simple that there is not much to convince you, it is clear to all of us that BiH is a retarded country in many segments. But it's not a problem and it's not tragic if it's retarded on a sports plan, if it's retarded on a plan of general culture and the sanctification of a part of the population in this country, the problem is if it's retarded in this part of the country. This could be her wound cancer of this country, this position and the results of the work of the institutions, the largest state judicial institutions. Of course, there was nothing missing, and I am not slow about it, from the tables you showed, that only the funds were raised by the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice of BiH and compared to 2011. The year, as you mentioned here, means the BiH Court of Justice received 3 million more funds compared to 2011 in 2012. And I know when we adopted this year, because the fresh information, in 2013, that the BiH Court received 1.5 million KM more funds than in 2012, and the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 500,000. But, of course, the results of the BiH Court of Justice say unresolved cases, the situation 01.01.2012 in 3,900.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17179	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17180	Here's the end of this sentence. So, the state of pending cases in the Court of Justice of BiH on 01.01.2012 is 3,903 cases, and the state of pending cases on 31.12.2012 is 3,972. So the funds went up and efficiency went down. I am going to end this and ask that you, the representative and president answer this question, because I think it is a very difficult and serious issue for BiH, and financially for all taxpayers in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17181	Thank you. Replica MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17182	I said in one of the earlier replicas that the amazing thing with what simplicity and ease people say here in Parliament is such a difficult qualification, the type of BiH is a retarded country. This is an amazing thing to hear here from a representative of the state who lives off being a representative in the state and getting paid from that state. This is an amazing thing and this is for every conviction 25 to call your country retarded. BiH is a state like any country in the world, which has its own problems and which we in BiH are solving and we will solve. Claiming that the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office are BiH, that the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office will be the reasons for BiH's disintegration and the separation is one of, another of the absurd things that can be heard here in Parliament. Mrs. Marković, the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH will be among the many factors one of the important factors for the stability of this country, because the impact on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of BiH is a serious crime that will be prosecuted by the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Court of Justice, and you know that, among other things, you are hitting the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and you will not be able to do so. The sooner you turn to the discussions that are intended to help the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the sooner I am telling you that this is in the interest of you as citizens of this country. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17183	In line with the business provisions and with the recommendation of my colleague Belkić, here is really another appeal and I call for us not to use difficult words in replicas. If you need to express your opinion, I think you can do it properly. We're taking the order of the reported replicas. The first line has an MP, Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17184	Well, I know, and I understand that everything you say to Mr. Džaferović against the BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office, even though he and sometimes in some situations was clear to him in his head that it really is what it is said, which is expressed here as a factor and as an argument, I understand him that he is probably doing it for party reasons, and I don't know why. But what is clear and certain, Mr Džaferović, is that all MPs from the RS are paying me as well. And she sends money to the BiH budget to be us, so we get salaries for what we're doing here and what this one is, and don't deceive us with some kind of, you know how the money comes into BiH's budget. Perhaps one part of these funds is sometimes poured out for you from the Federation, and you too get out of it or vice versa, but don't distract us here that it's some BiH. Everything in BiH is questionable, what is called and puts under BiH's company is all discussed. I also come here from the RS, which, for me and all MPs, voted there and did not vote from any BiH. And when you talk about the Court of Justice of BiH, when you're defending it so heartily, give me at least one more example, here from the EU countries that I'm not setting an example for you throughout Europe, give an example from the EU where the state court has reached such a verdict from the Strasbourg Court for Human Rights, such as the Court of Human Rights? Has any court experienced what some of the EU states have experienced, which is, in this way, analised and underrated and brought down by the Court of Justice. And you take your right to defend such a court, so it's simple for a man to say I have no comment on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17185	Second replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17186	I wish that my colleague Džaferović, who always claims to teach us something, even when... he could argue about his knowledge of the subject, said one word in favour, that is, against the way the Court and the Prosecutor's Office worked so far, that you said one sentence. Well, in which country is there to be judged by the law passed after the crime, or after it was committed? That you said one sentence, that you said about this, why the right of the Attorney General to take away the right of acting prosecutors and wait, who should wait for his consent, is unmarked in practice. That you have said any sentence about the shameful blocking of Parliament and the role of prosecutors in it. Not a word of it. If I were you, I would praise both the Court and the Prosecutor's Office with my full mouth, because they will end up a historic role in favour of the Bosniak people.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17187	Replica, MP Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17188	Well, since my esteemed colleague, Drago Kalabić, is not here, so I have to say something on his behalf, what he said in EuroBlic, as regards the additional funds given to the BiH Prosecutor's Office for the Employment of 13 new prosecutors. The funds were approved and agreed by Finance Minister Nikola Špirić for the approval of those funds. As for fellow Members Džaferović, the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH who, as you said, will prosecute crimes against BiH's integrity and territorial sovereignty, I ask you – who violates BiH's integrity and territorial sovereignty? Was there a bigger blow to BiH and its institutions than that hostage crisis here when pressures wanted to force certain solutions? Where was the D.A.'s office? Should I also ask Mr. Novković – does the High Court and Prosecutorial Council consider why the prosecutors did not react that night? And you know, it's a little bit, we from the SDS were offering certain solutions and we thought this should be resolved, but instead of solving the SNSD decision, it was to get into structural dialogue. The structural dialogue that will cement, as we can see, this Court and the Prosecutor's Office and which will bring us, according to the RS Justice Minister, a new institution. It means that kind of permanent concrete. I know that you colleagues here disagree and that's some higher policy, a policy from the SNSD headquarters, but unfortunately, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17189	Replica, MP Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17190	I usually enjoy the latest replication of this topic and in such debates, but I would only like to make a statement on the previous speeches of distinguished colleagues Marković and Majkić. The fact that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is practically the same as any institution has its own good and weak sides, I can only say that the courts in BiH, as much as I can say from my own experience working as a court expert for 15 years, now I think that in the past two, three years it has never been a worse situation, or more complex and difficult when it comes to finance. The fact is 27 that these courts, not to say the courts and prosecutors, are facing extremely complex cases, so cases where politicians or politicians cannot have influence. But also courts and prosecutors have a lot of wide-ranging cases. Everyone would like them to work and do their part of the work the way many would like, above all, to be damaged. Unfortunately, in all these cases, I can only say that without material resources, without power, without the power of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, the courts and the prosecution that they have certainly cannot be expected. The other thing is, it's unfortunate that I also feel that the MPs of the state Parliament should not point out that I am, I am from the federal part, but I am paid from the state budget and practically a state MP. I think we should do first of all what we do. I believe this Parliament is the key to all the problems that are being recorded today and can be attributed to them. I believe that if we give them a certain opportunity to do their part of the job right, I am convinced that only then would the courts and prosecutors get a signal that in this House domestic relations, which is unfortunately not today. I believe that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council certainly has certain things that can be attributed to them and said that they are not, that they are not as we practically expect, but we must first move ahead of our own threshold and do everything we can to make things the way the wind would be, which would give them wind in their backs to do better and the way we point it out here. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17191	Replica MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17192	Mrs. Majkić, I didn't say this about, this is the third term that I was in the House of Representatives and I was, I had a mandate in the House of Peoples, so I haven't said this in 10 years, so I'm going to say this, because you keep trying when you don't have any arguments to disqualify people. I'm from the Faculty of Law in Sarajevo in '79. He brought with him the Golden Badge of the University, and in '90. I went through all the procedures and rated as the most qualified candidate for the Supreme Court of the Socialist Republic of BiH, and before that I was judge of the Municipal Court and of the District Court. So much for my references, this is what I'm forced to say, because you keep trying to disqualify people with your discussions. I don't speak here in this House because I know what that means, and you're talking about why you don't know what that means. And that's your problem, except that you're rude and you're getting into the word while I'm discussing, so you don't know anything about this stuff, you have a political warrant to attack the BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office, but believe me... it's a vain job. You plan on doing that job the sooner the better, don't waste your time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17193	Replica, MP Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17194	Thank you, Chairman. 28 Well, in the past little over an hour we've heard so many hard words that it's amazing. We've heard about the collapse of the state and about the retarded state and about the terminology of the type - balliums, Chetniks, Ustashas and the address of you from the RS, you from the Federation, and I don't really know why this kind of anxiety is today. What's making her so nervous? I don't know if people are aware of what date it is today, what year it is? 2013 is the year, so there is more to the election, slowly, slowly, it will come. The second thing, well 17 years ago, the war was over, which, I mean, we're acting here like it was yesterday you cared about. And what's going to happen? After such advances in the congregation, those who are shooting sit down on a plane and go abroad together, and those who have listened to this and who can only understand from this, that they need to see their neighbor through the sights from this day forward. So put people on the ball a little bit. Personal disqualifications, what's that for? What's that for, no matter what side they come from? What do we have from this whole thing, here's an hour of what we got, what's the result of this? Nothing, i.e. the result is that we lost another hour in Parliament listening to mutual disqualifications and degutant discussions. And I really ask you, I really ask that we have at least that minimal amount of responsibility for those who listen to this and who will even take some of you seriously, so I don't know what to do. So let's not talk tomorrow about the consequences and then say, "What happened?" Well, it happened to create an atmosphere that's pointless, absolutely pointless. I really ask you, and the chairman, I don't know if you have any business opportunities, but to end this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17195	The word, i.e. the replica, is sent by Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17196	Well, I, the chairman, don't know if this will be my replica, but it's more of a business intervention. So, we here already, here as well as fellow Magazinović mention, have been discussing for an hour and more, listening to personal dialogues, arguments, counterarguments etc. Instead of moving it into the hallway, cabinets, televisions, dialogue shows, etc., we have here, we are witnessing some personal and personal and accounting. I don't know here is really so many words of ugly that are said by a retarded state, that I asked myself here – who's retarded here in this room? I must, indeed, remind you why I am speaking parliamentary intervention. I'm looking here at our guests from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, they were able to sit at their workplace today, because here everything is being discussed and at least the report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. I ask you, Chairman, there is no debate here on either the Court or the Prosecutor's Office, and at least on personal matters, to interrupt any discussion that is beyond the agenda. So, please, remind me of the report on the work, Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council item 8. We're an hour here and we're listening more to something that's out, completely out of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17197	Over 50%, I think, here the MP is not even in the first term, not to say that we are also in this term in the third year of office. And if, in the third year of office, a 29 needs to learn what the agenda is and what is not, then we need neither the chairman nor the MPs. The word is from Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17198	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and you gentlemen from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council who, at least while I'm an MP, regularly respond and attend these sessions. And I can immediately say that the report covers a lot of data, and unfortunately, as I always say when it comes to reports like this, and they are common, even when the agenda is regular, and when they're not, we always do, because it's always the most problems in the Court and the D.A.'s office. But as Honorable Professor Hadžiahmetović said, the thing is here – a report from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Well, yes, but what does he sublime? He does not sublime the work of agricultural cooperatives, trade in small and large, but rather the Court and the Prosecutor's Office and those institutions for which, unfortunately, we are not in charge. It's always about independence, I've never seen that there's independence in anything. The word independence is imaginary, each one depends on someone and there is nothing independent in this country, there is nothing independent in other countries, there is nothing independent in the world. Whoever's denying me, I'm going to give up this whole discussion. But let me remind you, as the Honorable Chairman has said, we did not sit in these parliamentary benches yesterday, but many of them are here in both the second and third terms, and before any decision from Strasbourg we warned about what was going to happen, we did not need a decision from Strasbourg. So every man, doesn't have to be a lawyer, he knew you couldn't resuscitate the man who was buried, died. Resuscitation is performed where there is still a possibility that a person can be revived, so there is resuscitation. A man buried, all the prayers of this and those by religion held, no, you can't take him out and bring him back to life that's impossible. Well, that's when we warned. So I will remind myself of the many facts of 2007 when the prosecutor was a respected Mr. Marinko Jurčević, I personally asked him, there are stenograms here to prepare a five-year strategy to address the issue of war crimes. And here's the last six, seven years, we're in the worst situation right now. Now those verdicts will all be audits. How much compensation it will be for BiH's budget, who will have to pay for it. So then I said how many charges were manufactured against both these or those leaders. And I never call on what some newspapers have published, what does my colleague Kalabić, who is not present, what he said in some newspapers, what does this have to do with the High Court and Prosecutorial Council report? I never mention a single party here, I never mention a politician by name and last name here, I mention a system that doesn't work. So then I asked the Honorable one, I say, the prosecutor to prepare the strategy and to put BiH in charge, to take the loan, to take 200 prosecutors, and to finish all this in five years. The past seven of us without prosecutors, we will now receive, as I see it, 13 prosecutors who will do nothing but have to audit those who spoke. So if anyone was consistent in their politics and did not change their attitudes, the SNSD was driven out by those strangers who had entertained the Court and the D.A. And if I didn't mention it now, it would be far away, everyone knows that if that institution were illegal, it's not in the Dayton Agreement, it's not in the constitutional order of BiH at all. Now are there any hard words for these or those words, no matter what we hear, any harder words than ten portals are going to be today, or yesterday, that we're all in line with the family, which we don't even, are counting and cursing in order... 30
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17199	Come on, please, let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17200	I have to, so that's how this country works.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17201	No, the agenda item knows what it is – the report of the High Court...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17202	The item of the agenda here is the report of the Judicial and Prosecutorial Council...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17203	They're coming at us in a row, and we're going to do it in other places.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17204	I, I respect you and you'd be right if we had the opportunity to say from today we don't need a structural dialogue, but to at least return these verdicts for saying nothing for 40 years and violate all possible human norms, not legal, but human, but there's nothing we can do. Now, I ask the question, let me go back to this report - who will compensate BiH for such a way of working and such factorying and judgment and indictments and mental pain for persons who are meant to be so, by dictatorship, for no reason whatsoever, what about their families, children, I don't know, by reputation in society? Or we'll just arrange a meeting when someone comes back from The Hague, and there'll be problems. Well, it's all a problem with this report of the Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. There, a disciplinary judge can press charges against Mr. Novković and these distinguished ladies, and he can't file charges against the President of the Court who never attended, will not come, the prosecutor won't come. What can we do? I have spoken of other points of the agenda, and now, if I don't bother too much, there is no use here to discuss anything, but once we definitely show this Parliament's impotence that nothing can decide, and on us is the greatest burden. For all of us as a matter of fact, we're all responsible, and there's nothing we can do about it. I said last session, last five-session, I said everyone, no one here will ever bring the attorney general, because she says -- what, Parliament doesn't choose me, I won't come, bye, goodbye. The President of the Court will not communicate with the Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. So even at the Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, people are sitting by nationality, not sitting there the same people, and they're, of course, running out of mandate, tomorrow taking care of their position as to what happens to them, whether they can name this and that prosecutor or I don't even know the judge if they don't have the consent of other peoples. So I appeal to my colleagues that no one here is angry, and when I hear some words that qualify as a little bit more difficult, so, gentlemen of the year 2000, you have, if you're already calling for newspaper reports and articles, when I asked to start digging up the garbage dump where there was a 10m embankment, today it's 30m, when there was an international community here where the probes could've been determined, without digging or digging, which wouldn't be paid by the prosecution, to determine if there were human bones down there. They could, there was no will at the time. Well... since the end of the war, you've said a finely respected colleague of 31 Magazinović who's gone, there's been a 17-year war, so it's clear to everyone, but we haven't solved anything...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17205	Now I can tell you to get back to the agenda, and you're going to tell me that it's directly related to the agenda point, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17206	Here, here, I'll be back. We can't change a word from this report. There's nothing we can do. Dear colleague Marković said we gave only to the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, just us most against those institutions, supported the budget and only increased them. And it wasn't mentioned here, they were also given additional funds from the budget reserve. So again, we haven't made any remarks, and we know, you all know what we are against these institutions. Well, because they're selective, they're one-sided, they're not independent, that's the problem. And I can't say anything against the High Court and Prosecution Council today, they've prepared this extravagantly, but I'm fully aware every year that they're powerless, too, nothing they can do. And this is just a summation of one sublimation of all data. After this report, where we can't change words, next year it'll be slightly differently modified with the same or more difficult, not with the same or more difficult, with even more difficult problems. Why? Audit procedures, need more resources, retrials, this and that, etc., etc. Thank you very much, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17207	Thank you. Before I give my word to Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić, it is not a practice of exactly half the agenda, but if all those who have been reported agree to limit the debate to 5 minutes. Everybody agrees. The word is Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, we see that a little bit of this discussion here is complicated, obviously an interesting topic, is whether, today we are on the agenda of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council Report. I must say that this report, and extensively, is a comprehensive report and very transparent and should surely be supported as the report, which has been done, means very well and professionally and technically. But the report does not give us many answers that are important for the functioning of the entire system, i.e. life in BiH, and some of us have already heard things here. Let's say, in the report, the one who wrote himself, means the president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council in one part of the Report says that politics, including the BiH Parliament, is a recommendation on what should be done to us by the executive and what the legislative authority, where we interfere with work, and we put pressure on the work of the Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary of BiH. Here we have seen a lot of debates about both the work of both the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice of BiH and I am on the side of those that, there is currently an ignoring position both the President of the BiH Court and the BiH chief prosecutor towards the BiH Parliament to answer some questions here, or to submit 32 reports, and they ignore it. And here's exactly what they're saying, so there is a will and desire of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which was ultimately when the budget was passed for this year, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly supported additional funds to these institutions, and the fact is, as counterpart Marković said in their report, we have a number of pending cases. It is a fact that stands in the Report, with the very essence of the subject, it is a fact that stands in the Report. I'd like a little bit here, so, to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, they'd think a little bit when they say "stretched actions" that were led there against certain judges and against prosecutors. The largest number of strict procedures have been completed, I don't have the exact data here, but you know, you wrote it, here's the report, the oral notes, and I don't know in the final, is that these are the strict procedures because, I don't know, I don't know, in the time of unwritten solutions, court judgments, decisions, due to negligence, work or so on. I wonder in some way, and I'm talking about a very important area, a very significant pillar of this society, and I wonder, here there's no fellow Kabila, that he as a cardio surgeon has some kind of reckless work and what the result of this reckless work is, and that's why he's paid. Because we know that, so the judiciary and the prosecution are paid in a way that the prescribed coefficient by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council is that they are not treated as civil servants, as appointed officials, but a special budget where there is 100m euros, as mentioned there in the Report, and not very little money, regardless of what might be small on the total GDP of BiH as it is, but even when we look at the structure, I don't think it's that small money. It is not clear to me that the BiH Court of Justice says, when talking about the number of cases resolved, or pending cases, that one part of the case has not been solved because they have entered or accepted as outdated items. Here's what this means. I'd be interested in how the Court can get it from the D.A.'s office. It means to accept that it's going through this CMS system or on that application and it comes before the judge, so it means that it's being handled by the judge, and then it realizes that this case is out of date. Here, I don't get it, so what you're accepting. What my colleague Jovičić was saying about some resuscitations, it would look the same to you if you brought a dead man into the surgical room and then a surgeon when he prepared everything a mask, gloves...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17209	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17210	... says the man is dead. I'd just like to ask you for a few things.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17211	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17212	Here's just another 10 seconds of presidencies, this is very important. And last time I spoke -- I don't believe that out of all the convictions, 49% is exactly probationary, 10% is monetary,.... I... Chairman of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council said every judge is independent in making his decisions, about then whether he's independent, because I have examples where he's not independent, not only him, but he's not the prosecutor. I'm willing to talk to you about that and my exact name and last name, and we don't have to be here, if anyone's gonna bring you a verdict, sentence you to 14 months in prison, and then in the next procedure, you'll be released. But we have a reason why he was independent before that, which is why I'm saying it. 33 I wish you'd given us some sort of suggestion here through the judiciary how to solve it, this year it's solved 20 thousand cases seem to me those old ones, but there are others, I don't know either two hundred and something or four hundred and something...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17213	Mr. Jurišić, you've got one minute and 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17214	... 10 or 20 years to solve these old cases, so I wish you might have offered through the report how for this next year, two days to solve all these, if possible, these old items, to secure additional funds. Well, I think it's useful for this chairing debate, but here's what you're interrupting me, time... here's my apology and I'm interrupting this debate of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17215	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17216	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, High Court and Prosecutorial Council President and Council delegation. Let me say a few sentences regarding the High Court and Prosecutor's Council's 2012 report. The Constitutional Commission considered it, unfortunately there was no big debate on the Commission, we took it to the knowledge and this might be an opportunity to propose, of course the House of Representatives did the same thing that the Constitutional Commission did, because it is the only possible thing. We neither adopt nor adopt this Report, we take it into consideration, and we take out from it the obligations arising from the recommendations given to us in this Report, and it concerns legislative authorities. So the first thing I want to say a few sentences is a question of the recommendations that are listed here. I call on all my colleagues and colleagues to read well the recommendations relating to the legislative authority and to see what it is that the legislative authority needs to do to ensure that the judiciary system in BiH with the regulator of that authority, an independent, independent authority called the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, is doing more successfully business and work. It's actually our mandate. Our mandate is not to involve ourselves in specific cases, to assess the work of individual officials in the judiciary. I think it's either the result of ignorance or it's the result of an evil intention that wants to appear on this discussion. The High Court and Prosecutor's Council's report itself has listed the answers. The report came from the jurisdiction of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and who wanted to read one of the elements on page 6 which said it was important to stress that, having regard to Article 17. The Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, as well as the principles on which the judiciary operates, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council has no jurisdiction in creating a criminal policy, nor can 34 question judicial decisions, i.e. prosecution decisions, or influence judicial proceedings in concrete cases. If it doesn't have a High Court and Prosecutor's Board, and that's true, because it's a system, it's the only responsibility of a judge and judges of a first-degree court, a second-degree court, a third-degree court, the International Court, and that's the one vertical nobody gets into, and neither does the High and Prosecutor's Council, then we don't have those who do business, so I've reacted to it in a way that I've had to answer some of the discussions here with my own replication. And I'm asking you to keep this in mind. When a softer law is applied, it is a first-class, high-level legal issue, which depends on each particular case, and that is the responsibility of the judge who judges and the Council, if it is in a specific case. To get involved in this, it is a very dangerous thing and let the judiciary system in BiH operate on the principles and rules set out in the Constitution and in the laws of this country. What I want to say in the remaining two minutes is my view of the future of the BiH judiciary. So, I support this report. And if he were voted for, I'd vote for him. So, I will take it into consideration as well as the Constitutional Commission, but what I want to say is to encourage the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and all judicial institutions in BiH to fight for independence and independence and to do their job the way it is set up in the political system, i.e. in the BiH constitutional justice system. I think it's a very important question, and it's going to depend on a lot of things when it comes to the judiciary, what's listed here in the recommendations and budgeting. We have a High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council as a state-level regulator, we have an entity and we have a state-level judicial structure, we have entity judicial structures and we have budget financing, as many budgets as canton, Brcko District, two entities and BiH states. As far as I can see, it's 14. It is something that is a major problem and can affect the efficiency, functionality and independence of the judiciary. And what needs to be insisted on in the future is to reach a system in which the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, if we cannot determine that, will be placed in one centre where this will be financed, then that the High Court and Prosecutor's Council will play that role in this Report when it comes to the budgeting of courts and prosecutors in BiH. The other thing that is very important to me and very important to me, and it is not talked about, is the unification of judicial procedural legislation, both criminal, litigation, and all others, because in BiH we have several criminal proceedings, we have several litigation procedures, several administrative procedures, several out-of-party proceedings, leftover proceedings. I think BiH's judicial procedural legislation must be unified and it should be worked on. I support this structural dialogue that should lead to a more efficient and functional judiciary within BiH, and certainly this effort, to solve municipal cases that represent the ballast of BiH's judicial structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17217	I thank Ambassador Džaferović. Before I give my word to MP Niki Lozančić, I will ask professional services to invite all MPs to return to the O.R. or we will be forced to take a break. The word is from Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17218	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I'll try through this brief discussion and replicate and discuss. I have to say, thanks to the fact that the debates are being conducted the way they're being led, it's going to take more time for this first than for this second one, because it's obvious that we are knowingly or not chasing certain pots, so to speak. We have all made a solemn statement at the beginning of this term of office in which we have committed to respecting the BiH Constitution. And the BiH Constitution in Article 1.2 says BiH is a democratic state that functions in accordance with the law and the basis of free and democratic elections. Based on free and democratic elections, I was elected representative of the BiH Parliament House of Independent and Sovereign States. And thanks to that fact here, I'm talking about the work of one of the institutions established by the law of this same state. I, as a representative, and each of us, has the right to be satisfied and dissatisfied with certain legal decisions and has the right to regular procedure and to influence the changes to these legal solutions. As far as we're going through our independence, and we should be the most independent institution in this country, each of you knows that, I don't want to give anyone a special lecture on his independence. Some institutions in this country are, by law, declared independent institutions and can only be mixed in the work of these institutions through amendments to the law. I am not satisfied with certain solutions in the High Court and Prosecutorial Council Act. Unfortunately, because of thinking about whether or not it can go through in the regulatory legislative procedure, I daren't go into proposing changes so that the effort won't be in vain. But I'm going to put some of the dilemmas here in front of all of us here, and especially in front of the High Court and Prosecution Council, I'm assuming they're thinking about it themselves. I mean, first of all, the High Court and Prosecution Council. It's periferno to me how many members of the High Court and Prosecution Council. It could be 5, it could be 55. I don't know if it makes sense for lawyers and prosecutors, who are parties in the process, to choose or influence the choice of judges in BiH? Is it appropriate for lawyers to choose prosecutors who are otherwise opposing the proceedings? I make this as if it doesn't make sense to me, although I will answer it, and you have not passed this law, you who are acting in these duties, but some composition, some Parliamentary Assembly, has passed this law one way or another. Well, I appeal to you and to us, as much as you can initiate and to us if such an initiative comes to try to remove, in my opinion, the illogicalness of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council Act. The second thing, I don't want to mention the principles of independence or the High Judicial and Prosecutor's Council, or the courts and the prosecution, I think that's how we take it when it comes to us. But I must say one thing, the debate, in public, which was led on by the High Court of Justice and Prosecutors and the President of the Court of Justice of BiH was negatively experienced. I don't want to say who's right, who's wrong, so I don't want to cheer for either side, but she's been very negative. I had countless questions from ordinary people, and he said, "Wait for whoever answers to whom, if anyone is answering to you, thinking of us in the House of Representatives in Parlaemnt, etc." How, if it doesn't match you, to whom it suits who, etc.? 36 We chase the concepts of responsibility in the sense that we want to engage for some reason in specific cases, but very often we do not interfere in, here are these issues that may not be well regulated in the laws, in the Law on the High Judiciary and Prosecutorial Council and in the laws, if we do not like them, on the Court, on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH etc. I'm aware of the fact that neither the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council can enter specific cases. That's okay. It's not okay if at least the High Court and Prosecutor's Council doesn't monitor the efficiency of judges and prosecutors. And I'll just say it for a little while, but my time has run out. If once a year the same prosecutor falls 70% of the total case, which is a way to make that prosecutor more, not because I don't like how he worked, but because his cases fall in court, which appreciates his work, that he is sanctioned. If, once upon a time, the same judge of the first-degree court of the total number of cases for which he makes the verdict falls again in a second-degree procedure of more than half of the cases, is there any way, because he is ineffective. So there's control through the law, through, the court controls one, two-stage controls the other. But if we don't verify it later, what good is that? So from judges and prosecutors, who, say, are either incompetent, or not independent or, I don't know, I don't get a term, any wrong term. So is there an instrumentation, a programme to be followed in this sense by the efficiency of judges and prosecutors in terms of the final effect of the cases they were dealing with? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17219	Thank you. I remind you of those who weren't in the O.R. that we limited the discussion to five minutes. The word has an MP, Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17220	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The debate always arouses the public's attention as well as those present about the problem we are discussing, but it is not surprising. I would like to say that often with us in Parliament, and otherwise in the public, there is not enough understanding about the relationship between the MPs as the representative of the highest, the institution of the legislative authority in BiH, when we discuss or ask, we are problemling some issues, when it comes to the functioning of, therefore, judicial institutions. The report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council gives me the right to believe that we who are representatives of the most legislative authority, which we have besides this legislative function, therefore, both control and representative. So we have a lot of right in a certain sense to present and problem some questions. We know that we are legalists, when and when we discuss this problem that some things take a long time to establish in another way that BiH would be in a position to be a country in which it is a fundamental foundation, that is, to establish the functioning of the rule of law and to have a relationship with each individual in it. Both the SNSD and the RS aim to establish the functioning of judicial institutions is of particular interest to everyone, for every citizen, so in every part of BiH. There are problems. When we discuss this, I don't think there's enough sensitivity. There is open impatience to issues that we are having problems with. We know that we are the specificity of establishing a common judicial system and we know how some institutions have been established. We believe they do not have a foothold in the highest legislative acts, but we do have a situation where respect for the law is a fundamental assumption that there is no legal chaos. 37 What is done if we ask ordinary citizens? I honestly must say, if we are looking at a period before judicial institutions reform and now that this is a better situation. Some of my colleagues may disagree, but for an ordinary man, the functioning of judicial institutions and courts, I speak from basic courts, is better than it was. In some segments, it is catastrophic and has no support, no support for citizens. Therefore, the approach and attitude towards each citizen and to justice, from the basic court, these institutions are more orderly, more serious than they have functioned. I'm talking about basic courts and county courts. At BiH level, established institutions, some of these institutions did not show sufficient confidence. How, we know what we're different about. It is a matter of processing suspects and war crimes indictees, a matter of retrograde application of the BiH Criminal Law, which has hit BiH's biggest slap from the legal profession segment. Politicians, legislators, have for years pointed to the full legal indifference of this. Here in a function of disrespecting this rule that the law cannot be retrograded was exclusively two segments. One is passion and a need for revenge. So, emotions. These two segments are the greatest enemies of justice. So there's no justice in such a way of thinking. It is simple to believe that the highest supreme authority of this country has dropped from the court, the Supreme Courts of Entity, to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, to the cantonal and district courts, have not openly held a debate about this and have determined that we need from Strasbourg to come up with a message about it. As it is possible that some BiH prosecutor, a very large number, again because of these two segments, a sense of passion and emotion, determine the detention measures in a very large number of cases where it was absolutely not necessary, because today BiH's state in its budget is paying compensation to such persons, who have suffered very great damages, for years in custody, for no reason whatsoever, because there are mechanisms, and now there are even more in view of agreements between neighbouring countries and BiH. So, I find that insufficient and I believe that the High Court and Prosecutorial Council should seriously analyse this problem. As it points out, the end, I find a very inappropriate debate led by key people from the BiH Prosecutor's Office, through media with faces from either courts or investigative agencies. This harms the judiciary, and politicians must not allow it, and it has nothing to do with justice. And once again, I also think it's illogical to say that the execution of the number of cases solved in the basic courts is up to 190%, and that there are so many pending cases. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17221	I'd like to thank Ambassador Prodanović. The word is from Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17222	Thank you, Chairman. Namely, what am I saying? We're having discussions, here's what I think for a third year, in fact in the same way, without doing anything, and we haven't done anything in that regard. And there's a question of the productivity of such discussions. I've talked more than once about the work of the visak Court and the Prosecutor's Council and the system solutions. It's just a system solution that's not good. Here's a colleague, dear colleague Lozančić said, of course, I've said it before, that prosecutors and lawyers and judges can't be in the same body. So that's, that represents an interesting one group and you can't expect 38 impartiality there. There is a debate in structural dialogue where prosecutors and judges would be members of the body. I think it's also a big mistake. Neither can prosecutors, the prosecutor is a party to proceedings, nor can prosecutors and judges be members of that body, but it is necessary to look for other solutions, in my deep confidence, therefore, in my deep confidence, until we resolve the issue. If we have given so much authority to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, then we must find the right rational solution that will really work, where any possibility of bias, or interest in that group, will be excluded, and the interest is very much expressed in such a group as the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. I once defined the rule of law here. The rule of law is a state in which rational and non-retroactive laws rule. So that's the definition. Of course, the rule of law also has other elements to limit individual power, etc., etc., division of power. There's been a breach here and a division of power. And that's what I was talking about. Why was the division of power violated? Well, the division of power is disrupted because you have one body out of control in the system. So no one can control the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, except that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is reporting to Parliament, which would eventually be according to that Šveđanin who was some creator of this concept, when I told him, so you have good control here, but we don't, you know, but don't crash it, it's agreed, over there, etc., so you can financially when the budget is brought and so, and that's almost impossible. So it's not an adequate instrument. As far as these system solutions are concerned. What's it important to say here? It is important to say that the people are unhappy with the BiH judiciary. I would say, in contrast to some who only point out the work of the BiH Court, for the work of the BiH courts, so both in the RS and the Federation, so the people are dissatisfied. If the people are unhappy with the judiciary there's something out there, something's wrong. Something's wrong. You know, I was visiting a colleague with a woman once, and I got into the elevator, and there was this prosecutor in the elevator who I asked how you were, what's new, etc. He told me, bad. What? So he says I've got a full cabinet of cases and I'm not doing anything. So why aren't you working? So he says, when I get one item, someone calls right away. I put it aside. So what? So I'm gonna go into town and have some coffee. And he says, that's how time goes by. So when we talk about the judiciary here, it's a very complex question, the issue of functioning the system as a whole. So I guess there's no responsibility, no responsibility. We are not talking about what other parliaments are discussing, especially Serbian, I see that on these issues it is very much debated, and there is no difference here. We're not talking about corruption in the judiciary, the impact of justice policy, the clans within the judiciary. So these are very, very important things when it comes to the work of the judiciary, in particular, there are stakeholders and there are things that have been established. We've been going through a difficult time in the aftermath of war, etc., and, of course, such structures have been created. Let me just say, this ruling by Maktouf-Damjanović, that shouldn't have happened. That's the great thing Mr. Lazo said, I think there was this sensitivity, those emotional elements that they wanted in some way, let's go judge more of these than those. And I must say that what Lazo didn't say contributed to that by a good international community. I understand that everyone has their own interests, etc., I understand even, naturally, to report some bias, but there was too much bias. And this country will have to pay huge costs around someone's arbitrary, see in the rule of law, rule of non-retroactive laws, and we have retroactive laws in one of the most important areas. It's a criminal field where it was meant to be taken care of. Unfortunately, it's not. 39 and one more thing. What's the big deal? Well, I guess I wouldn't agree with Mr. Džaferović that, and that's what I've been pointing out here, that individual things can't be discussed, so the particular thing that the judge is dealing with, but you can talk about the work of the Court as a whole, but you can talk about the policies of the Court. As the BiH Court has established priorities for resolving matters, this can be discussed. That's something you can talk about. And we have eclectic examples, not to mention now. Some priority issues had to be put on the agenda, such as dobrovoljački, etc. It had to, it had to be in the presence of rational, saving people. Say, well, let's see, so here we have 1,100 and some years in prison, and here we have 156, 152 as much, at one point. Well, there's something wrong with that. This ratio is too big, something's wrong with it. Let's put it on the agenda, so we'd have fewer of these problems that we now have in the Parament, which we have shootings in the daily press, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17223	What I'm about to say doesn't apply to a colleague of Kunić, but a professor of Paris University wrote a letter to his colleague on over 50 pages, and at the end of that letter he wrote – my dear colleague, I apologize but I didn't have time to write a shorter letter. I would only like to tell the MPs – we have enough time to prepare for condensed exposure. She's an emissary of Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17224	Thank you. Speaking of which, when it comes to writing and what anyone told them, there's something that's startled me, and what it says about the situation in our justice system. What's really startled me is that no one has ever responded. And here, I am interested in saying whether, by official duty, the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of the former President of the Constitutional Court of BiH called and asked – who you were referring to when you made a public statement. And she meant someone from the BiH judiciary. And what that woman said was terrible. And here I will tell you, on 29th April, even in 2010, Mrs Hatidža Hadjiosmanovic-Hadžiosmanović-Matić, on the show "Pecate" broadcast on RTRS, says she talks about the case of Alijagić and says – in the evening of June 18th 2008, a prominent person from the judiciary came to my house and pressured me to take the case to Alijagić immediately, saying that he and Alijagići could no longer support the racketeering in the RS, as well as the racketeering of the BiH Constitutional Court. In the middle of the conversation, this person's cell phone rang. It answered and told me that Alijagić called him and told him that he was in my house and after the conversation he turned his phone towards me and took pictures of me in my home clothes. I'm not scared by nature, but believe me, that's when I blacked out from such a sophisticated criminal program. It's hard for me to believe that this face has decided to take such a step out of the alijagic Alijagić, as well as that it's an independent shooter. I think the whole state knows what person it is, and I believe you do, too. And I'm interested in this -- has the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council ever, in view of its official duty, since something like this seriously violates the reputation of the justice system and the trust of the citizens in justice, asked the former President of the Constitutional Court about which it is concerned and might have any evidence of these potentially corrupt activities? 40 The second thing, I know this is the 2012 report, and I appreciate that you came here on your first call, since it's not a practice of other judicial, prosecution and court, so here's a chance to ask you some specific questions. One of these concrete issues, what the media are writing about these days, which is about orders, decisions, e-mails or I don't know what, since the document hasn't been published, BiH's chief prosecutor that every prosecutor's decision must be sent to him for approval. I don't think there's any greater interference in the independence of the prosecution's work and the prosecution's decisions than anything, if that's what the chief prosecutor really ordered. So, I don't know, I read it from the media, whether it's an order, an instruction, an e-mail, what it is, but here we are interested in clearing it up. If the media got high, we'd know it was high. The second thing, according to the prosecution code, the prosecution code of conduct, or whatever it is called, is that every prosecutor should work on affirmation of what he does, to strengthen trust in institutions, in the prosecution, and so on, to promote both moral and any other standards. Right? We had a situation here that the chief prosecutor refused to appear before this institution, to answer some questions, which I would not call promoting high standards and strengthening confidence in the BiH Prosecutor's Office. We had a situation that on June 06, what happened, that the chief prosecutor simply felt he shouldn't tell anyone, maybe nothing happened, maybe we're imagining, but let him tell us that we're imagining there's no crime, that's what he's being asked of. He refuses to do so, so here we are, at least 14 of us from the RS, to help us clear up. Maybe we're mistaken. We'll accept that we're mistaken, but just to be told that Mr. Chief Prosecutor is telling us. One more thing I'm curious about, and it's about the verdict, which my colleagues have already spoken about, the European Court of Human Rights, that I'm wondering if you might be doing an analysis of that verdict? We also see the BiH Constitutional Court on the basis of the verdict made one decision in the case, Goran Damjanović. Have you done an analysis of this verdict, have you done an analysis of how much this verdict and this Constitutional Court verdict can continue to renegotiate the examinations of earlier judgments? Of course, that'll all cost BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17225	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17226	One more thing, please. It's very important to me, the question. Two years ago, when you were here, you promised us, and that is the conclusion of Parliament, that you will provide us with an analysis of the case relating to the murder of Mr Branislav Garić. We never got that analysis. I wonder what's wrong with that.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17227	Thank you. The word has an MP, Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 41 I didn’t mean to engage in this discussion because we don’t even know what time this is for us to discuss, and increasingly bile and bile on this particular topic. Two institutions are needed in every country that wants to establish order and law on its territory. The one we're sitting in today and the one we're discussing right now. We pass legislative acts, they carry them out in life and in the field. And the union of the two, gives finally a normal state, governed by law, law and order. We're not that yet. And that's why it happens on every report what happened today, in one of the ugliest forms I've heard in three years. I didn't expect such hard words from my respected colleagues and colleagues from the RS. If anyone could speak very hard words at your expense, then it should be me, but that's what you've never heard of me, nor will you hear. This place doesn't deserve it first. My years and everything I am have taught me that wisdom is to keep quiet and not to speak foolishly. Because when fools talk, smart people shut up. It's an ancient philosophical saying, not mine. Today I have heard very difficult words that require that you, Mr. Chairman and the Expansive College, get a little bit in their meetings and about this way of our work, however, if anything else, try to arrange. Because this really goes beyond the limits of good taste. I considered all of you, dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues to be the best choice, no matter what your name is and where you come from, who will represent my country and my country everywhere and in every place. When you are openly denying it, and you are one of the ladies who said it, and how it will be presented, and I know in many delegations of this Parliament, that it represents this tall House and that it represents our country, our state of BiH, what it said there. Is that where the RS or the BiH State Parliament is represented? Think about it. Apropo, in all parliamentary democracies, is it a parliament, whether it is a congress, whether the Senate, the oldest elected member is respected and respected and appreciated for that very reason. I've never felt it here. And to tell you just one fact, to all of you, I'm the only maybe here in Parliament, the only maybe, I'd like to hear from some others, who never came out of this building to represent this Parliament. I guess you're ashamed of me, huh, so you're not proposing me anywhere. But I didn't object, let you go, you go. Only if you represent her the way you represent her here, then I'm terrified of all of it. I'm sorry, today we should have talked about this report as normal people, as smart, intelligent, able, educated, because among us there are a number of people who are professionals, who know all of this, who can help us, if nothing else to conclude that we are going to make to our respected colleagues and colleagues who are doing a very, very difficult job in this country, such as being a judge and being a prosecutor in BiH, a very difficult job, I would never be in their skin, but working together – yes, accusing – no. So what did we turn into? In a jury that judges them. We must all think carefully, what are we actually doing in this House? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17229	Thank you. The word has an MP, Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17230	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen. 42 Here, let me say a few words. Since I'm not a lawyer, but neither are the lawyers who gave the vote to me, but they have questions and they ask them and they say, how can they? Well, there are certain illogicalities, and that's why I called in a certain way. If, by respecting Parliament, I think, however, unlike some colleagues who say it does not matter, it is very important what is to be said in this Parliament and it is very important for those who report that they hear our comment, a critical reference to it. To whom it would not be as a bearer of function or institution would be pleased to be praised, as there are certain institutions. We cannot say this about this institution for the many reasons that are here, not getting involved in the fact that besides here, the highly respected expert Mr. Kunić and other people who understand this right to a good degree, but as an ordinary citizen, the mass of things gets in the way and people ask questions with which I associate. The BiH judiciary does not enjoy the confidence of RS citizens. I know it's very hard to get along. It's always either from one entity or from another entity that will attack you because of a certain decision, it won't agree with that, but it should stick to principles, justice and the law. I know that justice is not equal to justice, but at least there should be uniform criteria with which you can go public and say what it is that you do, in order to continue to get support and trust. When it comes to, for example, working, certain, here's to not telling the media what they're writing, in one case, I think someone mentioned Alijagić here, it's been mentioned that 5 tons of electrodes of silver have been spent there. And when one who works there in the court and the prosecution as a man who came as an expert at the engineering college says that in Europe, so many electrodes were not produced, there is no need at all for these products at the level of Europe, and that the company that brought the warrant, the invoice that it was paid, that it never existed, that it never did. And that's not a relevant thing for a court of law. So it immediately encourages citizens to have something else on Wednesdays. Or, you all know what a 4.5-ton Dajc truck looks like, and when it's told how much it has, how much can a 1-millimeter tin stand, it can go two meters up. One of those boards costs a(?) About 200 kilos, 200 tables is over 40 tons of load capacity. And you noticed when the paws go driving a dozen of those tins because I can't do it anymore. And that's not relevant for the court, for the prosecutor. That's what's causing one mistrust. You must work on trust with the citizens, to gain confidence in you, to give support. Tell us where we as parliamentarians have challenged you, from the budget you asked for to some enlargements, etc.? And you should care about your citizens' trust, and you'll have it if you're more effective. I can't believe that when one court decision is made in Strasbourg that not all procedures are now being audited or that at least someone who has done or ordered it, at least there is no responsibility. I don't think that's acceptable. He should have a responsibility for why he was working under a law that wasn't in force back then. We have the same case at the PIO Fund, the Court of Justice's verdict in Strasbourg, that pensions made in the Federation and entities by 01.04.'92. For years, these entities pay off. The Court of Justice's decision in Strasbourg is that it is paid, we must again, each individual must conduct the procedure in order to come, 15 thousand of them now live, as long as they receive a pension from the RS Fund, they must all go to court. Now that's where you have to, at that level, talk to the judges, point out. And that's what we ordered today from Parliament, not getting involved in making decisions. When the decision is made, I don't think we have the right to be there, and we respect you. If we respect you, you try to build authority and these things don't happen to us. Thank you very much. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17231	... MPs to apply for a discussion, I think there were plenty of replicas and discussions. My proposal, if you agree, is that the official guests invited by the chairman may participate in the work of the session and those points of the agenda for which they are called, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We have limited the discussion to 5 minutes, but if you agree on a large number of questions asked that we give the President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council up to 10 minutes to address Parliament, and that after that, and if necessary, try to refrain from replication. Here, I see there's about that consent, so here you go, Mr. Novković. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I don't mind being over 10 if you agree. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17233	Very respected and honourable MPs, allow me to welcome you in front of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH and on my own behalf. In the coming minutes, I thought I would brief you on the content of the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2012 and provide answers to your questions, but due to a large number of questions, I will immediately move to answer certain questions. To what I do not answer, there is a vice-president of the Council, a colleague of Ružica Jukić, and a member of the presidency, Kadrić Zijad, so they will probably take part, or give an answer to those questions that I do not answer. If all three of us cannot answer certain questions, we will provide a written answer to these questions. I, like every time, say that as president of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, I advocate that as much co-operation and interaction between the legislative, executive and judicial authorities be achieved. And regardless of what's going on in the judiciary on your discussions, I still think we've been having some interactions all this time. And if we did, that's the result of your discussions, where I've heard a lot of good suggestions today when it comes to your discussions and discussions on this matter. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council operates under the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, then Rules of Procedure and other acts adopted and on the basis of which it works, but which are in accordance with the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. If you ask me, I have a lot of objections to the High Court and Prosecution Council Act. And we as the High Court and Prosecutorial Council can, by law, only give initiatives to amend the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and we can give opinions on the laws concerning BiH's judicial institutions. That's what we do, but to those laws and acts delivered to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. I'm pretty sure there's a number, a number of laws that concern the judiciary and acts that are not delivered to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. The work of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is completely transparent, we have also amended the Rules of Procedure, passed a legal provision so that I think the transparency of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council is one of the significant and large 44 controls of the work of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. No judicial or prosecutorial council or council in the region has had transparent work as the BiH Council does. I will answer very briefly that your finding that you have stated is correct that a certain number of citizens do not trust the work of BiH's judicial institutions. We at the three conferences of the chief prosecutors and the president of the courts were dealing with the question of what it was about. There is one fact which is, I have been working in the judiciary for 36 years and there have always been certain objections to the work of judicial institutions and in BiH, and in the former country, etc. It is not excluded and extended in the region. What's that about? You know these reasons as well as I do. However, this confidence of BiH citizens is burdening me with judicial institutions over something else, which is that the public of BiH is divided when it comes to the confidence of BiH citizens. It depends on who is tried, who is tried and how certain sanctions are imposed. We at the High Court and Prosecutor's Council are dealing with the team and taking all measures we can take. Trust is first because we have one disharmonization in material and procedural laws. We live in one country, and because of these laws, it's a different and court practice. And it certainly creates a certain trust. On the other hand, we have a judicial system that is still ineffective, but I will deny certain discussions that states that the judiciary is doing nothing and that it is totally ineffective that we will already propose certain courts, in the entire BiH territory, that have no cases and see what with these courts. It is a number of basic courts, municipal courts, cantonal courts, or even district courts. The figures in the report have been solved hundreds of thousands of cases. We had one situation that we had to solve the return of property which was almost a problem and similar when it comes to the processing of war crimes cases. In 8, or 9 years after this problem came seriously, we have brought the processing of these items to an end. I'm not going to say that the High Court and Prosecutor's Council is an ideal institution. It has certain shortcomings of its own, of the organisation structure itself, of work, etc., but our work and all that we have done is not to be underestimated as I have heard from a certain number of MPs today. Certainly I will convey this fact already at the next session to all members of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and we seek to make the complete judicial system a complete system under the control of the High Court and Prosecutor's Board. This when I say it primarily refers to the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office. The BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office are institutions that were established in 2002 and 2003, respectively. These are the new judicial institutions that are truly dealing with the most serious crimes, where the most severe penalties are prescribed. There was a significant number of international judges and international prosecutors working there. For these reasons, people came from the Anglo-Saxon system, from other systems, and believe me that this judicial institution was very difficult to train, adapt to the continental system and everything that is the tradition of the justice system in BiH. There's been a huge effort with less or more success. We were not in a situation until 2012 to pass the rule and to norm the judges of the BiH Court, the President of the BiH Court, the BiH chief prosecutor and the prosecutor of the prosecution. In 2012, we adopted the Regulation on standardisation and these two judicial institutions, and they are now, representing a complete judicial system and are responsible for achieving the norm. In this way, we believe that there will be an improvement of the organisation of the judicial system in BiH. We must bear in mind both the facts of both the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH that it has resolved a significant number of cases and it cannot be ignored, the facts exist, the facts exist. Has the justice system 45, together with the legislative system, or with the executive authority, been organised in the best possible way, whether the strategy adopted and adopted by the Council of Ministers on 28 December, 29 December 2008, is the most central solution, whether it is the most comprehensive, whether it needs to be changed or not, I will say something later. When it comes to the evaluation of the President of the BiH Court of Justice...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17234	Mr. Novković, let me remind you, so 10 minutes are up, let's try to bring the discussion to an end, though, to respect the provisions.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17235	Thank you. With regard to the assessment of the president of the BiH Court, the law did not regulate the assessment of the president of that court. In several times we have given the initiative to amend this Law, the Law has not been amended. No assessment of any BiH prosecutor has been regulated. We proposed initiatives, and those initiatives didn't see the light of day. There was no regular evaluation of the president of the Federation Supreme Court. We gave the initiative, it was never adopted. It has not been adopted, there has been no regular evaluation of the Presidents of the RS Court and the Court of Appeal of the Brcko District. We gave the initiative, the laws were amended, and those positions are now being evaluated. As far as I'm concerned, I'm sorry, since I'm limited in time, I've been prepared to answer all the questions, but here I'll just answer two more questions, when it comes to the BiH chief prosecutor, he didn't bring instructions where he asked to control, that is, every case under his control. He came up with an instruction that was immediately discussed by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, and he asked only in this manual to have insight into the cases being resolved. A similar instruction came a year ago and the chief prosecutor of the prosecutor's office, the RS District Prosecutor's Office. To point out -- the chief prosecutor is the most responsible person in the prosecution and all the other prosecutors represent him. By my personal assessment, and by the assessment of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, it is not restricted or taken away from the other prosecutors representing it. I can also deliver his instructions to you, and I can also deliver a letter to the High Court and Prosecutor's Office. When it comes to the verdict of Damjanovic-Damjanović-Maktouf, I personally as President of the Council as soon as I got and found out about the verdict, I came out with a press release that the Court of Justice's ruling in Strasbourg cannot be ignored. After that, we have scheduled a meeting of the supervisory authority where we have also given specific instructions and a contribution to this verdict that will resolve the equality of citizens before the law. We held a meeting of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH a few days ago where we welcomed the verdict in Strasbourg, where we made it very clear and precise that all those involved in the processing of war crimes cases must get acquainted with the verdict, and all of us in the judiciary must face the legal consequences of that verdict. The Constitutional Court also acted in one case a few days ago in accordance with the verdict, and the supervisory authority for the equality of citizens before the law, because we had one situation that entities applied one law and that the BiH Court assessed the other law as the softest law. We held an international conference, held seven conferences with the presidents of the courts, with judges who judge, etc., and all in order to ensure the equality of the citizens before the law. We have never said what law should be applied, it is not our jurisdiction, but 46 we have concluded that the principles of general criminal law in BiH as well as in each country must be respected, and this leads to that, in the meantime, if there are more laws to apply softer law. Because of the position we have, and we don't have that authority, we never said apply this law or that law, except that the principles of criminal law must be respected and the simplest laws applied. And to answer to the honourable MP that two years ago we delivered a response to the murder, to the Garić case. We can again, we can deliver you again, there's written documentation. I thank you for the recommendations you made and also your discussions are very useful to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17236	I thank the president of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. We agreed to go without a replica, colleague Jurišić. So, if anyone else wants you, go ahead. I'd just like you to introduce yourself for a stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17237	I'm Ružica Jukić, so VSTV vice president. I welcome the esteemed gathering. I'd like to say that I'm a little disappointed that you've been so sharp, although I support it when people are sharp because I'm just like that. I don't think it should be ignored if the RS MPs point to something that clearly exists, but I also point out that we are being contacted by the Federation and the Bošnjak and the Hrvat that war crimes are not being solved and taken, meaning in the case. So, it's really one problem that we can't just say everything is fine, and I will at least on my part and President Novković and the other members of the Council watch that what we can do as a Council given our competences. As far as the procedure is concerned, is it Mr. Jurišić you mentioned a strict procedure, i.e. disciplinaryly, so the disciplinary prosecutor is primarily independent in the work. So he has the ability to reject every object, we have absolutely no control over it. Number two, as far as decisions are concerned, it's not a criminal procedure, first of all. Disciplinary procedure, you know in other institutions how it is conducted and how it ends. The third thing, look at the few decisions in the courts, so you'll see that the disciplinary proceedings, sometimes the decisions of disciplinary proceedings, are much more rigorous than those in criminal proceedings. So we have to distinguish discipline and punishment. But in any case, I am in favour of amending the provisions of the VSTV Act when it comes to the responsibilities of the disciplinary prosecutor that a legal remedy must be laid down where the Council will decide in those cases when they are rejected by a self-initiatived disciplinary prosecutor, means the application. It's, uh, mostly our citizens are complaining about the rejection of applications. I can also tell you that I will prepare a set of proposals that will go from the Council to amending the law that will contribute to the efficiency of the judiciary, and it will normally depend on you to support it. As for the communal items, I am currently a member of the Management Board for the resolution of municipal objects, and I can tell you that we have had several meetings with President 47 Petrović and with these companies communal. We also proposed a series of measures to facilitate the work and court, as the court is not an incasant of municipal enterprises. However, we have seen that communal companies respond to this status because they are financed by one part of their search and are the easiest to send it to court and then the court gets in trouble because there is nothing to charge, gentlemen, because they are mostly people, 50% in the BiH state is unemployed, right. These are people who have old couches and TVs and come into a situation where the court has cases that cannot be completed and stands as unfinished cases in court. But in every country that's a little more developed, a social programme is being developed, so you can see if there's anything that can be forgiven, etc., but I don't want to talk about it anymore. It'll be a little later,...we'll talk about it. He says -- why lawyers in the Council, now I can't remember who set it up. Well, again the same - we did not pass that law. The other thing, I also think they shouldn't be lawyers in the Council. They should be if all members of the Council will be in a permanent working relationship with the Council, and this would also apply to those who come from the House of Representatives, because it is so regulated in other countries – that all members are permanent and cannot be in conflict with jurisdiction. That lawyer can't leave and represent the party... because he'd be in the Council all the time. And in other countries, it is regulated that all Council members are, therefore, constantly, paid by the Supreme Court judge, so think about these things a little bit. Determining custody, he says, then release. The court is required to act, which means, according to the prosecution's proposal, to order custody. At a certain point, certain evidence suggests that someone committed a crime, but please, in judicial proceedings very often witnesses change statements and we come up with a situation that you have to release, although it doesn't mean that man didn't do something. For the chief prosecutor's orders, it's answered by the president and I don't want to talk about it anymore, but I'm really glad to hear your opinion, and we're really just reporting to you, but it's good that we can hear you and your opinion normally, and we really need to work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17238	Thank you. Please, the word is Zijad Kadrić, is that right, a member of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17239	Yes, I am Zijad Kadrić, judge of the Brcko District Appeal Court and I am a member of the High Court and Prosecutor's Board. I'd just like to make some remarks. The structure of the report, as I see it from most discussions, is good, however, MP Marković said some things might not be necessary and as far as the information of the judiciary is concerned. But we think it's a very important question, and it's so important, it's the same thing when we go from working the country to some rarity, etc. And now we're working on some modern land, we have a tractor, etc., a combination, that's very important. And that is most important to you, and we are proud of that, especially given that it has contributed a lot to the international community by means of its resources. Justice information is a miracle. We, through this information, have everything we need, so we have, we can constantly monitor the effects of the courts and prosecutors, the prosecution can exchange information with the police agencies about important matters. So we have 48 of everything we need – access to the Internet, scanning, lawyers can enter objects, parties, and come up with the documents they need in their cases. That's very important. And that's why I really think it was important to mention, and that's why we mentioned it. What counterpart Džaferović said was the problem of applying the Criminal Law, an extremely complex and professional issue. We discussed the issue, so we also had meetings with the presidents of the department, we had an international conference at which they participated from the special prosecutor's office from Serbia, Croatia, and we are here, etc. It's a very complex question. What makes it so complicated? It is not that simple to say – there is no retroactive application of the law, that is, the principle of international and domestic and certainly, what is important to say. We had, therefore, perpetrators of a crime, we had the SFRJ Penal Code. The SFRJ criminal law provides for the death penalty, however, there is an end to the death penalty. Now that the death penalty has been abolished, BiH's Penal Code has been passed, and instead of the death penalty there, a long-term prison is projected. Now some lawyers, experts, etc., interprets that instead of this death sentence, it was valid and valid to predict a long-term prison, because the amount of evil that was intended for a crime cannot simply be now that it remains 5 years to 15 years or up to 20 years instead of, uh, instead of now there is no death penalty, then in this Criminal Law it was predicted, intended long-term prison. Criminal law was written by experts from all nationalities, including the order of others, and by international experts, I remember when it was written, and it was. But now this ruling comes to Maktouf-Maktouf-Damjanović, and it was not easy either. You see, it was in Strasbourg, how long that verdict was, how long it's been around, and it's about a specific case. However, similar cases are likely to take place by analogy. When it comes to criminal acts, we know that the SFRJ Penal Code did not provide for certain criminal acts, responsibilities of certain, command responsibilities etc., etc. Now, where it was scheduled, there's a death penalty being lifted, so in this KZBiH, they're replacing her with this long-term prison sentence. So it's not such a simple question and let's say that it was very simple to solve, and it wasn't settled universally, now to say in any case there is so to be done etc., it's not the essence of that verdict, but in a particular case it's so ruled out. Now the court will take care of it, right, is that the case or not when it's convicted? So, about that, and let me tell you the Council was never passive here. The Council had meetings, had international conferences, had regulations and everything else. That's what I'd have to say. And I can still say this -- as far as the work of the courts is concerned, you have data on how many courts have moved the norms. So, personally as a member of the Council, I am satisfied with the work of the courts and given the current circumstances, someone has mentioned financial resources, to tell you that in certain courts and prosecutors there are 15 prosecutors or 15 judges missing, or more. We are now re-evaluating the system. Such is the case with the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office in Sarajevo and the Cantonal Court in Sarajevo where there is an obvious lack of personnel. We're working on it, taking all the measures. And as far as work and results are concerned... the courts I am personally pleased with, and I think the Council is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17240	I thank the representatives of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. 49 Because of the current problem we have which is related to Article 67(3). I'm taking a 60-minute break from the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and I'm asking you to come on time. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work on the 54th session of the House of Representatives. We have three replicas. There are representatives of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH who have remained with us, if there is any further need to clarify things. Although we have agreed not to go with the replicas, it is the right of every MP to take advantage of that possibility. I hope it will be in the shortest, as they say, concisely and clearly. The word has, or replica, the first MP Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm going to use this more as an explanation than a replica, because of course I can replicate to my fellow MPs, but let me just tell Mrs. Jukić. At the pay phone, the lady said she was surprised by the acuity of the word. I'm asking you now, I'd be surprised and stop at your protection but there's no need, were there any offensive words, were there any pressures, was there anything? There has been controversy, Parliament is such that such a discussion is being conducted. If it wasn't for that kind of discussion, we'd all be in the same party, we'd all be in the same people, we'd all be in the same town, so it's impossible. But I am asking you, and I am not asking for an answer – what did you, Mrs Jukić, as the Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, take against the prosecutor or prosecutor who, imagine, sent a letter to the College asking for in the last year or a year or a half, all the stenograms, all the documents I voted for in Parliament. Well, it's the most radical pressure on the MP, on my political action, so if you want me to say whatever I want in Parliament, and that unfortunate immunity that no one seems to care about because it can do, look for what it wants. And I didn't take it that way as pressure, and I won't blame you either. You have the right to say whatever you want. But here, in my name I tell you, really, I'm sorry to look at you but it's like, don't realize that anyone, I'm speaking for myself, and I haven't even heard that, I've been putting pressure on you, asking you to do something to me against your code, the law, I don't know, and I don't know all the principles. It's nobody, I didn't hear. So I ask you to leave Parliament satisfied, yet because you have heard a lot of suggestions today, you have heard one democratic debate. I haven't heard a word of insult in seven years, and I've never heard a fellow colleague say he's lying, and God Bog he's cursing something. I've seen in other parliaments fights and umbrellas and shoes and chairs, and we've got our chairs tied to Bog, so there won't be that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17243	Of course there won't be, not because the chairs are tied, but because of the high level though. And the other thing, I don't know what it is, of course everyone's going to get the word that they're looking for, but my colleague Jovičić, we often surprise each other, let alone the people who come on the side. 50 Word has Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17244	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17245	Zvonko Jurišić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17246	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17247	He's giving up. And now we're going to give Mrs. Jukić a word and with this we're closing this session, that is, this part of the agenda, Bog and the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17248	Mr. Jovičić, right, you didn't understand me. I'm sorry the atmosphere is like that. I said that what they put as a problem RS lawmakers deserve to be checked for victims of Serbian nationality. And I also told you that there is one smaller requirement of Bosniak and Croatian victims as well to check. So, everyone deserves to check these cases, so it's not a dead letter on paper. So that's what I said I stood for. But I'm sorry you're attacking each other, in that sense, there you go. But that's your thing again. So I'm a legalist and every victim is a victim and should be processed. That's if you're satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17249	I would like to thank all the representatives of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council who were present today at the House of Representatives meeting on this agenda. I'm closing the eighth item of the agenda. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: "conditions for effective and effective VAT control and forced debt collection", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office The report was delivered in the procedure on 12.07.2013. I'm opening a debate, Comrade Babalj. Does anyone appear within the ninth item of the agenda? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 10th item of the agenda, 51 Ad. Ten. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Beriz Belkić to discuss information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2012, which reads: "The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH supports and asks the Council of Ministers to work on creating conditions for the implementation of the measures and the next steps indicated in the Security State Information in 2012."
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, I welcome you all. I see the left-hand side has no executive authority, I have no one to greet, but okay, and we'll have an assignment for them one, a conclusion, so they'll find out.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17257	I just remind you that all discussions are limited to five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17258	As far as I'm concerned, I can do three, so I'm not short, am I?). The report, i.e. the Information on Public Liability of BiH, made it clear that BiH, the total public debt is 10.4 billion, is externally 7.3 and internally 3.3. The same is the report on the debt of the NGO, the government debt of 8.39 billion. What is very important to highlight here, where and in the Debt and Guarantee Act of BiH, it is clearly stated, that within the Ministry of Finance the sector which manages and oversees this public debt and that there is a commission in the ministry that sets out a proposal for a State Debt Management Strategy to be adopted by the Council of Ministers no later than a month before the end of the fiscal year. Thus, the Law made that clear. And what concerns me in this state of public duty is the conclusion written by the Council of Ministers that practically only determines that it is not good, and therefore on that basis I thought concrete measures should be taken, what to do to improve this state. And that is why I propose a conclusion which brings back the information on the state of BiH's public debt on 31.12. to the Council of Ministers for Co-operation in Section... It is up to the Council of Ministers to specify which specific measures relating to public responsibilities they plan to take under their responsibilities, if they plan to take concrete measures relating to economic policies. As it is clear to all of us here, the Council of Ministers of the Treasury's public account is about 5 billion and something, and so all that, the influence of this Parliament and the Council of Ministers and VAT, customs duties, excise duties and tolls, is therefore directly dependent on our decisions and directly dependent on how much this bill will be charged, and how much it will be. 53 It is also up to the Council of Ministers to give a recommendation to lower levels of government for measures of economic policy under their jurisdiction. Because here we are, and we have been witnessing lately that as a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, we have dilemmas about many loans because we do not have enough information, that is, that those guidelines that the Council of Ministers make to lower levels, if these are not held, so no one in BiH outside can be in charge if we here in Parliament do not declare it here in Parliament. So, basically, we're kind of the most responsible, too, because we raise our hands and employ citizens. It is also up to the Council of Ministers to do this supplement within 30 days, which should be summed up to a maximum of 4 pages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17259	Thank you. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17260	Well, I'll do it very briefly, because obviously our elan is pretty much, so to speak, gone down. One kind of previous question, the next dilemma is asked to me. So we have the information on the state of responsibility, starting from that and the commission, the committee responsible, has acted as well, has taken note, and without any comment has forwarded to the Parliamentary Assembly for further proceedings, probably expecting that we will receive knowledge as well. On the other hand, we have the facts that Ivanković was talking about, so this Parliament practically agrees to ratify all the duties in BiH, international ones, this Parliament adopts the budget, discusses reports on the implementation of the budget, etc. So, in one word, I think that this kind of thing should be taken into account in the report, determined in the report with certain analyses, proposals for measures, etc. As much as I remember, of course I hope this information is the exact collection of accurate data, so on the level of various responsibilities from municipalities, entities, cantons, etc., so we have in some way, with a lot of certainty, the exact information. So, for the first time I see that in this and similar information, which has been coming here for years, the processor is expressing certain concerns, so given in mind the degree of duty, the height of war, the movement of an economic, gross social product, etc., and it shows certain concerns. But at the same time, what Mr Ivanković was talking about in the conclusions, practically one theoretical approach does not suggest anything concrete except that it is reduced to not going into budgetary spending, to go to development economic support, etc., so an absolutely theoretical approach without concrete proposals. Therefore, it is not mentioned, of course, one serious reduction in public spending in a way that can be affected, there is no mention of wage reduction, there is no mention of public administration reform, there is no reduction in the number of administrative workers, etc., which is absolutely present in all the discussions where the debt is large and where one serious approach is made. I have also followed these discussions regarding the RS's responsibility and I can tell you that there was in one very serious way debated about this kind of problem and that it was obviously rightly understood by people as a major problem. So in one word of assessment, as far as I could conclude, the potential of the country to continue borrowing is practically zero. So, we're just not able to do it anymore, because you know that old saying, "it's not like your mother's ugly that you gambled 54 than you tried to get out." I'm afraid we've fallen into a vicious circle where we go long enough to repay the debt and it can't come out well. So I certainly hope that there will be more similar suggestions of conclusions, I just had no idea what it is that a man might suggest to cover this whole set, but here I hope that in further discussion it will still be. So, there's nothing left, I'll take her into knowledge because I saw her, right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17261	I thank Ambassador Belkić. The word has an MP Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17262	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. One of, in my opinion, very rarely quality information that can be used in analysis and for those who want to deal with economic analysis. If we went back to the last time we discussed this subject, then maybe we could convince ourselves, so I have no intention of saying what I said last time because it's all the same, I'll just remind you if I intend to make one suggestion one conclusion. The public debt that we have totaled 39% of GDP, and it's not too much since we know a 60% upper limit and we know that there are a lot of countries in charge, even where we refer to their economies like Japan, Italy, etc. 150% of GDP. But it's not that you're in charge, it's that you're in charge, it's that you're in charge. And that's our real problem, because our debt structure is such that public spending is 37.4%, that the infrastructure is 50%, and that the economy is only 12.7%, withdraws... and that's the key thing to discuss and it needs to be looked for a solution. The interest rates are, the quality is very favourable, the average interest rate is 1.44%, so there's 1.5%, and the average credit maturity is 11 years. When we see what's been going on for the last few years, since 2008. For years, then we see that our debt is growing rapidly. It was only growing in 2011 by 470 million marks or 7%, which is quite high growth which, whether or not it leads, in the structure of duty we know that we had arrangements with the IMF and that what led to this increase. And even if we know that we've now updated the fourth stand by arrangement, signed with the IMF, that it's a little bit less than a billion, so for the next two years we're going to add another billion to this debt that it has and that's just worrying. Structural reforms, as counterpart Belkić said, are absolutely missing, no public administration reform, and so on. I therefore suggest that, given that we here often lead both polemics and give final consent to international debt and to create external debt, with one big note that we haven't solved the restitution and that we don't know how much it will ultimately be, and that can be a very, very high figure, given who was dealing with this problem knows what that means. And since we are now leading the controversy over the task and we are giving final responsibility, and we know that entities are in charge of negotiations, that we are in this way of reform, and since we have formed two institutions or institutes, however you will, and that is the Standing Committee on Fiscal Stability of BiH made up of Governor, Entity Ministers, Directors of Banking Agency, Director of 55 Deposit Insurance Agency. And on the other hand, we also have the Fiscal Council of BiH, you know if, where we are in entity, we are so positioned that we can monitor and analyze, and here you have said that one entity has been very good at discussing external debt, which I have been following, very, very high-quality. I think the conclusion should go in this direction to mandate this Standing Committee on Financial Stability of BiH and the Fiscal Council to analyse the state of public responsibility and in line with development strategies. I've asked here several times whether BiH has a development strategy, if we haven't adopted one single bar we have these entities, that according to them and these priorities these two bodies through the Council of Ministers, or to us to come to approval, means the level of duty and the sector according to the priorities of what the strategy requires. I think it will help all of us when we make decisions and it will be one useful activity for the whole of BiH, and I think then the real sector will find itself there. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17263	Thank you. The word has an MP, Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17264	Thank you, Chairman. First all together to greet you, and then to say, here's what I have to say to Mr. Belkić, when I've called, so I didn't want to replicate, but here's what I'm saying now in the discussion, so the Commission's been discussing this, and I think we've done a good job on the Commission. So, as far as this is concerned, we took our job very seriously. It came in form of information...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17265	microfo not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17266	No, no, I understood what you said, but I want to tell you, so it came in form of information, and I think that's where we all took part, and we recognized these problems definitely. But what I've come up for is that, you've mentioned the vicious circle, and I've just asked on the Commission, given the grace periods, given the arrivals, meaning, credit payments, given, to, uh, how much it's in charge of the previous period, as long as it's been waiting for us for the next few years, so I've got the information that for the next 45 years we're going to be returning loans that have been raised in some previous period, so it's nothing abnormal, nothing illogical, so it's doing it all over the world in a similar way, so that's also some logic, let's say. But what I was interested in was when will come the biggest payment of the debt, given the current situation, and since some credits are still in the grace period and so on. So, what I understood on the Commission, and hopefully, and I'm sure that the people who were there, answered our questions, said that in the next two years, the virtually greatest repayment of loans that are currently in charge will come in. So from that point of view, definitely and before us as Parliament, and otherwise we need to commit ourselves seriously because we are still in crisis and this is still not a great situation at all, we have big debts and so the biggest payment will come to us in the next two years and we should strictly be taken care of. I absolutely disagree, so 56 of us got into a vicious circle because it's going to be reduced that way in some future period, if we don't over-indebted, so we're going to be reduced...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17267	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17268	Of course, I understand what you're saying, but it still means we're not in that vicious circle, so the most dangerous are the next two years, and later it's going to be something less. I think the demagogues are a reduction in wages, the wages are already reduced, we've been cutting, I think any reduction in wages would lead to some other problems. It's the easiest thing to say to cut wages, the wages are small anyway. Reduce the administration, that's right, it would work, here's specifically here in this House it would be good if we had a far less commission. Now that you take it, there's been a debate about that concession committee, and Bog knows what kind of committees, bodies, committees, but unfortunately this policy definitely doesn't allow, and I think we just have to take care of being economically stable and in the coming period to take care of borrowing. So I support Mr. Vrankić's absolutely story, and I don't want to repeat that part, where this Standing Committee in charge of this problem should be strictly and not bad at least six months of reporting to us, so some movement flows, how and how it works, that we know how to determine and, in the end, that we don't give an opinion and consent the way we've given them so far, possibly to see if there's anything that can be fixed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17269	Thank you. The word has an emissary, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17270	Thank you. You know, it's kind of pointless in October to talk about the state at the end of last year. Bursać said that he did not agree that we had entered a vicious circle unless we were in debt. I think we're in that ninth Dante circle of hell, because only in the first six months of this year, the RS is in debt to another 218 million marks, which is 20% more than the plan. And these are data from a consolidated report on the implementation of the RS budget. Five auctions of vault records were also made this year, and 170 million marks were collected on that basis. And as counterpart Belkić said, a debate was being held in the National Assembly on this issue and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, their position was that we are medium in charge, that many European countries are more in charge than we are. And I'm asking all of us here, we actually need a agenda point here – how are we going to repay these debts? Who will repay these debts? What business? Where is this economy of ours that's gonna pay this off? Will that, I don't know, tycoons who stole money from the budget, who's gonna pay back? And it is not said that these European countries that are more in charge of BiH and which have not been, I think, in recession, and these days we hear that the economic situation is very good, than some. In the European 57 countries, gross social product per capita is between 6 and 10,000 euros, and we have 3,000 euros. And that's how we compare ourselves to them. And here, I'll tell you one more piece of information where we are, what a vicious circle we are. That in September, the 5th auction of sales was made in RS, not the fifth pardon, I think it was the 14th auction of the vault records of 53 million marks, following a statement from the government that the RS government's greatest success was this year, which preserved budgetary stability.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17271	I'm asking these SNSD guys to listen to the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17272	Well, he'll be in opposition anyway, never mind. Now, what happened, this auction was held to actually make a repayment on the basis of the 11th auction that was March 28th. So we're in charge of paying back and paying off debts and we're sinking and sinking, and next year, only in the RS to pay off the foreign and internal debt war will it take 450 million marks. I don't know where you're from except for new credit debts. And when the SNSD colleagues say that we are here, that it is our responsibility, that we should not give consent to all our duties, it is true, the SDS will no longer do so, but then don't accuse us and we won't do it to save RS from total economic, but it's bankrupt, I don't know what can happen to it anymore, we won't do it, but don't accuse us of using this level of government to kidnap us, I don't know, and I don't even know how to stop RS, stop its development, economic well-being, and I don't know what. Be assured that we will no longer raise our hands here for any single credit arrangement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17273	Thank you. First replica, Saša Bursać, MP. Here you go, up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17274	Thank you. Here, it's obvious that my colleague Pandurević wants to transfer the atmosphere from the National Assembly here to this hall, which I absolutely don't see the need for. You are still in power, not removed Mirko Šarović, wait slowly. That's one thing. Second, she's already bankrupted the RS, the two of us obviously don't come from the same RS, I don't have that knowledge, please back it up, here I see it, maybe that's true, but I don't think it is. And that you're definitely giving a flat rate, so I don't tell you anything harder. Still, tycoons who stole money from the budget probably have names and last names. And that's the pausals, don't be insecure, I consider you a very serious MP, so don't be like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17275	Replica, MP Milica Marković. Here you go. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17276	Well, before I say what the replica is, I have to say that I agree with both my colleague Pandurević and all those who believe that duty is not an ally of no state, no society, after all, no household. But what I've come forward for is to say that you from the SDS when you talk about the RS's task, you're not exactly as sinless in that story and in what way. So according to the Ministry of Finance of the RS government, the three most-indebted municipalities in RS are Doboj, Bijeljina and Banja Luka. I will tell you about Bijeljina that the budget of the city of Bijeljina is 45 million marks, meaning the annual budget, and the debt of the municipality of Bijeljina is 80 million. So, almost two budgets. And who do you think will repay that debt that took the municipality of Bijeljin on the burden of the citizens of that city? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] With the government's consent, of course, but now that you're invoiced to the government on debts that the government allegedly took as loans and was in charge of, there's also the Bijeljina municipality's loan and Doboj's credit and all the municipalities that the government was guaranteed. So, don't represent before the picture so you're completely innocuous in that you don't have your fingers, you've run out. So over the municipalities and there's three of the most in charge are two Doboj and Bijeljin, where the chiefs from your party.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17278	Second replica, Member of the Parliament of Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17279	Thank you. It is true that the municipality of Bijeljina is in debt, is in debt with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and is in charge of infrastructure and strategic projects unlike the City of Banja Luka, which is in debt with 300% and is also in charge of public spending. As for bankruptcy, Mr Bursać, I know that your Executive Board has concluded that the economic situation in the RS is good, that the president of your party has said – that there is work, but that people will not work. I heard that on RTRS, he says -- no one's going down to Trebinje to read, I don't know, grapes. The budget hole for the first six months alone is 100 million marks. We've never had a higher percentage of the debt, never more debt of the funds, all our funds have failed, we don't have a single public enterprise except for the power utility of the RS that has a positive business, and the SDS has left them all behind with a positive balance. So I don't know what more you could have destroyed without you, except for the electro-privreda, and that's where the privatization goes. As for the tycoon, so Mr Bursać and the birds on the branches know who made illegal annexes, over which 80% of the IRB funds were placed, the two three mountains of Stanković and so on, integrated their related companies. So it's a common-known thing, but be sure, so it'll come very soon and it'll be processed. Thank you. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17280	Replica, MP Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17281	I don't really know which way I need to repeat more to my distinguished colleague Pandurević not to transfer the atmosphere from the National Assembly of the RS to the BiH Parliament. The information on the state of BiH's public responsibility writes here. I, of course, mean there's also an entity of the RS, thank Bog that's true, of course. But you and your MPs at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I don't really know how many times I have to tell you, dear colleague Pandurević, so I'll never mention your president, here he is. I'll say hello to him in the hallway, and I'll say hello to him now, how is Mlađo. But I will never mention him in a negative or in a positive context. You never, Mrs. Pandurević, a distinguished colleague of Pandurević, ever went to the media, in Parliament, not to mention our president. Here I am going to mention it, thank Bog it's RS President Milorad Dodik, thank Bog we're moving forward. Now, whether it's bankruptcy or not, I really didn't throw beans or look at a cup. Sometimes I find it in a cup that it's well-being, and sometimes I see it's not very satisfying. But I've never seen bankruptcy before, and I don't believe in panties. So please, really, use your media, and thank Bog every other night you're on your television, we don't even have access to ours, as you call it, that RS and there won't, nobody's calling us, so you're using an opportunity, but you're talking about the RS, about the National Assembly. Don't take every opportunity from the RS, every maybe good, and there's a lot of bad things to pass on to the BiH Parliament. I'm asking you one more time, if possible, if you don't proceed.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17282	The replica of Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17283	Dear counterpart Jovičiću, part of this information is also the responsibility of the RS, which I am very interested in as a citizen of the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17284	She's worried.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17285	And he's worried, of course, Mr. President, the president's throwing it at me, please warn him. As for the atmosphere in the National Assembly, you see, Mr. Jovičić, it is that your party has a majority there, but we are proud of the atmosphere in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Do you know why? Because it shows its democratic capacity. It wouldn't be right if he kept quiet up there. The position and opposition are there to fight and the opposition to be a correct factor in position. And we're glad that we are, though, that you don't accept anything up there, and if you'd listened to us, we wouldn't all be in this state together, that you'd listened to us before, so how come you didn't listen to us when we spoke like that? We had to get a little louder. And we need to talk about everything and I'm proud that my colleagues in the National Assembly of the SDS Club talk the same way we do here, it shows that our 60 intraparty relations are good, that we have good coordination unlike your party, Mr. Jovičić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17286	Replica Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17287	Well, I understand all that, dear colleague Pandurević, but it's no place for me to pass it on here. And I'm just going to tell you this, because of you, the next election I'm running for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to be able to discuss there with you, with the SDS and to free this Parliament of stories about the RS, but to discuss the RS on the spot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17288	This isn't a good trend. We're starting to bring down the ladders. He has a word, replica Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17289	Very briefly, this is very interesting, therefore, the atmosphere in the National Assembly has always been democratic and I am glad that Mr. Jovičić has ambition, and his president has now listened to everything he said, so he will give him the opportunity to be a quality opposition in the National Assembly so that, of course, his party will prove themselves at the job. Therefore, Mr. Jovičić, I sincerely support you in your efforts to convey this important message to your President Dodik, and he certainly heard it, if it isn't for you to convey it to him, and then he will create all possible assumptions and preconditions for you to enter the National Assembly as an opposition, and given the way you do it here, you will certainly do so as an opposition figure in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17290	Replica Boško Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17291	Let me just say that Slavuj the opposition to us here too, so nothing will be new.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17292	And he's talking about that Bojić. The word is from Ambassador Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17293	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I can't tell if the entities are bankrupt, but I can safely say that the citizens are all in economic collapse. If we continue to be in debt like this, then we will surely be in the living mud and in the deep mud. And this should be a lesson for us to teach everyone in which process to work, act, and 61 I think that, through the Foreign Affairs Commission, on several occasions and this Parliament, we have warned of the duties that, I say, have gone beyond the scope and disrespect of procedures in the adoption and signing of certain duties, regardless of what level. Please, for the sake of illustration, I just want to say one thing, and that was the last time, if I could just ask for your attention, for the sake of illustration, I just want to say one thing, and that was the last time at Parliament's debate, on this 5,363,000,000 debt, if this part is being thrown out by the London Club, the Paris Club, the IMF and the Government of Belgium where we don't know where the funds were used, or not written, it's not clearly sorted out, it remains 2,800,000. Of the 2,800,000 debts, which are both for infrastructure and the public sector and economic activity, 500 or half billion were spent only on health institutions. It would be very good if we had health care which deserves praise, that the healthcare provided by the services and external patients, and we are aware that it cannot provide services to patients from BiH. The debts that have been made are about half. Half went to one, half to another entity, the situation was catastrophic in both entities. And I must warn you that in this conclusion procedure these contracts were not subject to the Law on the conclusion of international contracts. It is clear from point 15 of this Treaty that the Council of Ministers needs to be delivered and an explanation of the needs and conditions of duty. The terms of the debt always held by the Ministry of Finance are what the grace period is, how much is the payment deadline, what are the interest, but nowhere about the conditions, about the needs of the debt, and we had in this section in the mass of cases – building some monuments to someone in their local or hometown, building a hospital without the capacity of others who follow all other needs. And if we add that whose equipment purchases were significantly, significantly more real in the market, in the environment I speak only to Croatia, Serbia, Macedonia and Montenegro, then we come up with a catastrophic data that citizens do not have access to health care adequately and quality as much money as it is spent in this sector and that with new responsibilities Parliament will not be able to work in this way as it has worked. It means that only the Ministry of Finance gives its opinion without the Ministry of Civil Affairs, or the Health Sector, that this is a need and that a quality approach is made to analyse the need to raise loans. I have to say that here only one fact, one medicine that is importable in both Serbia and BiH, means it is importable in both Serbia and BiH, you go to Belgrade and buy it for 22 marks, that same medicine here you go to the pharmacy and buy it for 65 marks. Are we a country that's three times richer, which has a better standard or we don't have a principle and access to supply and equipment and drugs and all that. There's evidence for that. Go to every pharmacy and take your medicine and you'll see. There are 11 euros in Belgrade, and there are 65 marks here. If these are principles, approaches, and if they were to go back to buying equipment as much as a single machine is paid, then they would see, and compare prices with Croatia, Serbia, Montenegro or countries in the environment, they would see what was done. And I think that through this ratification process and what comes to us just to get us into the system to accept, here we say, what they say, all of a sudden, we ratify, we vote with one voice, one by raising the hand of all these agreements and responsibilities, and then we absolutely don't know how long and when we'll be able to return. I think today for these local community responsibilities, cantons, even entities are unable to repay individual loans. Thank you. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17294	Thank you. The word has a letter from Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17295	I thank the chairman. I just want to remind you, first of all, I want to point out that there is one really well-informed Information, and that all those who have read and read what is standing in the open and between the lines, have very good reason to be concerned about what, here I have to say is no satisfaction, but only one argument is that there is one more argument in favour of the request that our time colleague Belkić and I here in the form of an initiative to this Parliament and Parliament unanimously accept, which is that we are discussing the economic situation because of such a bullet between key economic parameters. So, this is a bad state which is worrying to us, as it says in the Information, presented in 2012, I'm just going to remind myself that it's further worsened over the past 10 months. We just heard the amount relating to RS. And here, let's, by the way, a little depression, it's been so indicative to listen a little bit to the controversy of two RS political parties, but also to the debt mentioned and as municipal where some of the commissioners are, is a debt of BiH. So that's our debt. We're talking about this debt here today. This Parliament gives consent to ratification of these agreements and it is not true that we have no role, but what is our role we need to ask ourselves. Because here, we just heard from counterpart Saša Bursać that the Commission, whose member, and this is the Commission for Finance and Budget, discussed the Information on Liability and today the Foreign Affairs Commission agreed on ratifications for external debt. So we in our parliamentary system have a bullet. Not to mention one detail or not to mention one indicative detail that we had here in the Parliamentary Assembly recently when we did not make a recommendation to ratify an agreement. As we've all treated each other, so they've all been ratified so far, so why not this one, etc. Let's just ask ourselves a little bit. However, what I particularly want to stress is that this is very, very worrying information and an even more worrying situation that is in BiH today. It is true that our debt is not, there is little more than 40% of the total GDP, my colleague Vrankić will only make a few adjustments, that he is not in some parameters such as, if he is our role model for Greece, Spain, Italy, etc., Ireland or some other country that can be characterized as they are, however, none of them have the kind of economic disaster that BiH has. I must specifically mention that the smallest debt and the smallest additional new duty here is causing a fat cause for headache. We're not a retarded country, we're a sports country. We raise loans, not weights, we swim in debt, we skip game rules, procedures, etc., and we need here in this Parliament and this House specifically to worry about that situation. It should not be understood that it is a matter, or address that it is a matter of some coalition, some political party, it is a debt of BiH. And this is an unsustainable state where all possible red lights should be lit. I'm asking you for full seriousness right now when it comes to this, this problem. This is not a matter of political bickering either, because here in total debt there are debts from different periods, and they will be returned to generations no matter who will then be in power. Therefore, we do not need to characterise either the party 63 here either possible consent or disagreement for ratifications or for some new borrowings to address some political options. This is BiH's debt. We live in an absurd system where lower levels of government than municipal, cantonal, entity, etc. They also task that BiH's debt and the one guaranteed by international debt play a role in ratification or approval for ratification. I'm not going to talk about the absurd details in this information, but I want to warn you to read it carefully. In this regard, given the seriousness and seriousness of the overall situation, counterpart Belkić and I will propose one conclusion to this Parliament, more to initiate that the Council of Ministers, in co-operation with the competent institutions, change the borrowing strategy of BiH, that it does not take place solely from our economic capabilities and possible projections of key economic parameters. Therefore, to suspend any new borrowing of BiH and the process of giving consent to ratification of the treaty, i.e. an agreement after international borrowing, until the decision of the Council of Ministers on the possibilities of BiH to regularly serve external debt obligations, in line with the projections of key economic parameters and selection of future borrowing priorities by sectors, i.e. the purpose of using and dynamics to pay off international obligations. I tried to sublime a little of the discussions that were in previous exhibitions and which, among other things, concerned precisely the selection and priorities and, of course, the dynamics of the external debt payment. So the intention with this proposal is to change the borrowing strategy and get serious in view of the extremely serious situation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17296	Thank you. The word has an MP, Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing an extremely important and high-quality material that speaks of BiH's public responsibility. We can look at this problem from different aspects, which even in the previous debate a little through the joke, a little bit in this way happened here at the club, but things need to be serious. I consider the following, BiH is in charge, together with its public, public debt is 10.4 billion, of which 6.9 billion or 7 billion is external debt, the remaining internal debt. When you take the RS you're talking about, which the speakers on several occasions spoke about in a very ugly context, just to say that the RS is responsible for external debt with 36%. And if we compare this with the countries of the environment of Croatia, Serbia and Montenegro whose duty is over 50% of the gross social product, if we view it in such a way, then it can be realized that it is not an excessive duty, i.e. it is not a large one. But I also agree with those who say that in the future we have to keep an eye on what we're investing in. What Mr. Vrankić was talking about, we gave 12% of the total debt for the real sector or in production. But who could explain that they don't need hospitals, that they don't need schools, that they don't need roads, etc. That's why everything was in debt, so here, and in various ways, lobbying and depending on which political parties he was coming from, he was trying to isolate himself. However, it is not said that 64 can not be found here about excessive debt, but it must be talked about a more serious approach in the next borrowing, to make sure that it goes in that direction in order to get as much into the real sector as possible. It must be added here that a total of 24% of total debt is an inherited old debt. So, where we didn't decide, some others decided, it was a succession that almost two million of us had on that basis. Therefore, an effort should be made to ensure that, in the next period of approval, I agree, we make sure that as much as possible is done in the process of new employment. And in that sense, they have two conclusions, we can not know what conclusions we are making here, but this one is quite correct – new responsibilities need to be linked to production and infrastructure projects, projects that promote the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, exports, etc. The previous talks about the development of the economy and its support. If we behave this way in the next period and borrow then it is likely that BiH, these two years critical of where it is due to pay more than 700 million, will come into a position where it will be much easier to run its economy. And it would be good to refrain from any statements of bankruptcy, etc., it is not, Parliament is a serious place where it should not be operated in such a way. Let's not scare the citizens, enough of them to live hard enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17298	Thank you. The word has an MP, Mirza Kušljugić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17299	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues. I am pleased that today, both seriously and slightly less seriously, we are discussing a topic that we at the Foreign Affairs Commission have already been talking intensively for over a year. Just to remind you, the Commission is one of the links in the ratification of an agreement that someone has previously agreed, signed, all that is necessary, and even more so in some moments and activates the funds. Therefore, the story that this Parliament plays a very important role plays an important role in the ratification of the agreement that someone else makes. The only thing coming to us is that the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, with all of its bodies mentioned here today, uphold the law on debt management. I had the opportunity last time, when there was a bile debate here because the Commission gave one negative opinion on borrowing, to talk to Professor Domazet and after that conversation, I'm sorry he's not here today, and very serious explanations have given me that during this crisis period borrowing is the only possible option available to countries such as BiH, it's only a question of where and why he's in debt. So, we're going to be in charge of getting back what we're obliged to do so far. There are institutions that have a very negative public connotation, such as the IMF, but you can see that negotiations with the IMF and neighbouring countries analyse and look forward to getting them. I think the right conclusion and I, two conclusions please, the real conclusion is further debt management, these people that have been so far, further debt management is a very important thing. 65 An intensive borrowing is ahead of us if we go through the EU and fulfil the obligations that stand there. This is, among other things, followed by Croatia and that is why this morning, the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister announced harsh restrictive measures in Serbia because he said – Serbia is in front of bankruptcy. Therefore, I think that we should send the Council of Ministers a message as Parliament, regardless of what is likely in that approval process there are twenty already agreed duties that have passed, so they are just waiting for ratification here, just waiting for ratification in this House, that this is something that should be a subject of serious debate. And I'm asking you for a very practical, collegiate instruction, we've taken on ourselves, taken over the Commission to analyze in detail, and here today we've taken off considering one of the points because we didn't get the information. It is not the Foreign Affairs Commission that has to do this, we are just one link in ratification of the agreement. Please, if you think that this is so important and that there is a commitment here that we should no longer be in debt, then let us, when we vote to vote on each of these, so let Parliament give a negative opinion if it considers that it is not necessary to ratify an agreement that is not related to a particular strategy or is, it is true what counterpart Hadžiahmetović says, we are... consent and on the IPA, we have today agreed to the Agreement and to Corridor 5c. If people are not going to give consent, I would also like there to be more, if there were more opportunities to be in charge of small and medium-sized enterprises and export credits, but trust me, as far as I know, there are also neutral funds on those credit lines. Our economy isn't as capable of taking credit as we think it is. So, one thing I support is the conclusion that was here about borrowing management in the next period. And secondly, we will surely abide by the law on the Commission, that's what my colleague Đugum said, we will ask for further arguments that are in the law for each of the borrowings, but make it easier for the people in the Commission who try to put this item on this agenda. We initiated it last time, this time we said we were talking about it, we can't be the dam that's going to run the debt now, because the debt is managed by the Ministry of Finance along with the Council of Advisory as prescribed by the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17300	Thank you. Is this an application for the next item or this one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17301	Well, I'll be brief, so I want first of all to support these discussions that went in the direction that we're changing this sense of spending the funds we're in debt for, because it really is in the eyes that we're taking out of these assets by the very least where we should spend the most, and that's actually where we should produce some new value. So you see that this part relating to public consumption and debt on that basis is about to remain the same, and this part relating to the creation of some new value is falling. So I, here, support the discussions that went that way and especially the conclusion of my colleague, Vrankić, so that we should be more actively involved in terms of channeling this debt, because it is actually a long whole of this country and all of us. So in that sense, I think that we need to find a mechanism to follow in some way the duties at all levels of government and put our accent on this business 66 activity that involves new employment, new jobs, etc. in some new approach. And so in this sense, here I am in favour of this conclusion relating to this Standing Committee on Financial Stability and the Fiscal Council that should make us this new proposal for a relationship to this area. And one more thing to say, the other day I received information that there are 61,000 blocked accounts in BiH, 61,000 blocked economic accounts. So the resources we have in the country, which we could use a smart approach to unblock and in some way ensure that we don't have to borrow on such large interest. This would, on the other hand, unblock the process and reduce interest, and of course make it possible for us to have some of our internal resources in BiH that we can operate with. I suggest that, here when this approach is made that this information is also kept in mind and that, in that sense, it is offered in some way and some measures and some solutions that would go in that direction that so many blocked accounts in some way find the formula that we will find the answer to and how we will unblock it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17302	Thank you. I'm closing item 14 of the agenda. We're going to the 15th point of the agenda, Ad. 15. Information from the last session of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly on the Report on the functioning of democratic institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina This item is included in the agenda on the initiative of MPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić. The BiH foreign ministry has provided parliamentary assembly with materials related to this item of the agenda, they have been forwarded to all MPs. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Senad Šepić first applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17304	Well, about this Resolution Information, first of all, it's certainly good that we had the opportunity here today, we had the opportunity Beriz Belkić in some way about what happened last week in Strasbourg, and I believe that here and my colleagues and colleagues, Mrs. Marković and Mr. Saša Magazinović, will also talk about this in some perhaps more detail. In fact, what we need to say here, we are a resolution bearing the name – The functioning of democratic institutions in BiH, as Mr Beriz said, got somewhere 20 days or a month ago, each of us MPs in this House. What was our observation and last session of the House of Representatives is that we should have found a certain way of space yes, and before we went to Strasbourg to speak and represent the country, to have a certain position and to have certain guidelines from Parliament itself, including the BiH Presidency. Unfortunately, we didn't have that. But here, I can say that after this job and 67 of what we had in Strasbourg, we can say that in the best possible way we defended the interests of the BiH state. Since the Resolution, which I believe you all looked at, which you saw, is mostly quality and to say correctly depicts the positions that we have in the country. It paints well in a certain way the current situation in which the country is located, but there were two disputed items that were actually provided for sanctions and the planned suspension of the BiH state from the Council of Europe if we do not complete our commitments. So, in the Resolution, we had a thesis, we had a story about both the blockades and the European pathways and the commitments undertaken and these two members that referred to the BiH suspension and its participation both by states and delegations in representing the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly were something that was completely unacceptable to us. I must say that we, here as a delegation, have met before, in some way established our common views and that at the session itself, so during our very stay in Strasbourg we really acted unanimously, we spoke with one voice and what we have completely and plotted to ourselves as a particular goal we have done so to the end. So, the whole story about BiH, we've all known since the Monitoring Team, since the Monitoring Committee from Paris, has kind of gone negatively when it comes to BiH, because it was unanimously supported, has been supported by this text of the Resolution, which includes these two members who are referring to the suspension, or that I say more precisely and more strongly the decommissioning of BiH from the Council of Europe. So there were a lot of conversations, a lot of meetings, what I just said was missing were the official views of the highest institutions in the country. We submitted as a delegation, signed unanimously and submitted amendments. And what I can say is that talking to my colleagues in Strasbourg was actually one of the main and arguments that such a negative relationship, as the Council of Europe was prepared when it came to BiH, changed in favour of the state and that our amendments were accepted, because they really felt that we as a state and as a delegation were speaking with one voice. So the message they sent here was that they understood the situation in BiH, it was also positive that a certain agreement had happened a day earlier, conditionally said, was headed towards some deal in Brussels, some agreement to address this key issue concerning the implementation of the verdict. But what we need here today, when we are talking about this, when we already have this information from Strasbourg, we need today especially as Parliament, therefore, to send a clear message to all those who will make decisions on behalf of the state of BiH these days and to agree these days in Brussels that they are taking this very seriously and that in every way possible they find an agreement and find a compromise that will mean the implementation of this verdict. We will have a story about BiH again in a year. This time we had a certain one, here's what I mentioned earlier, an argument that went hand in hand, I don't know what we could have had next year if we didn't solve what are the key obligations that stand before us and what would actually be an argument for us to go out again in a year and look in a certain way for some kind of concessions and understanding from the Council of Europe. Here, I want to finally thank all my colleagues and colleagues who have participated in these activities and in Strasbourg, and beyond that, because we have shown here that in one of the most positive, one of the most concrete ways can and should be represented by the state of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17305	Thank you. Replica, MP Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17306	I thank the chairman. I really do have a need, here on behalf of my colleague Belkić and myself as a promoter and last time at Parliament's session, to call an emergency session and discuss the findings that were in the draft resolution. Today's initiative that, given the changes and the adopted resolution, we hear a report from one of the members of the delegation, I just want to mention, our initiative wasn't primarily focused on the members of the delegation in terms of, uh, not the last time giving any suggestions, as someone may have understood, as well as today, in terms of the possible submission of a report, we've heard enough through the means of information, is it? Our initiative was more initiated about the need for this Parliament to discuss a document that is intonated as it is, adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the resolution on BiH and at least what this Parliament can do, which is to put that document before it and see what we can do to make the next report different. In that sense, it was our initiative. And I think it may be useful to mention that at the outset, I am sorry that we did not arrive at the very beginning of the discussion, so it would be good if we had adopted a resolution and this Parliament discussed it. And here I am also asking the members of the College to eventually put it on the agenda at one of the next sessions and to, without any party bickering or anything, see what we can do to make the next report concerning the functioning of democratic institutions in BiH different intensities. In any case, the possible submission of the report by the members of the delegation seems too high here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17307	The word has an MP, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17308	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to welcome the initiative of colleagues Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić to discuss this and where we are fortunate to have held the discussion while there was a motion for a resolution. To be perfectly precise, and here are the delegation's colleagues, the resolution no longer exists, so Resolution is not adopted but has been re-formed and is treated as a recommendation to the Committee of Ministers, going to meet them. So this is also the result of the debate in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and in this sense the document exists as a document, but in something different. What's important, colleague Hadžiahmetović is right, there's been a lot of hearing through the media, but let's still share some of our impressions with you, our colleagues, and say a few things that we consider important. Reporters for BiH Karin S. Woldseth from Norway and Vareikis from Lithuania for the last time were rapporteurs and it is very important that we know that in some future period, and for some of the next, future reports that will result either in a resolution or whatever, new rapporteurs will be appointed. About Mrs. Woldseth, I personally believe that it is a very correct person, without bad intentions, while another man, as Mrs. Hadžiahmetović said, we were able to read and watch in the media. 69 It would be good if we had respected your initiative and discussed all this before the session itself. Unfortunately, it is not, which is procedurally, which perhaps for some other reasons has been done, but what has been done is that I have been, for the first time, and this is what I need to say, felt like a member of a delegation of a very serious country, since synergy has been ensured in action between the members of the delegation. For some other countries, it means that when it comes to that country that, everyone talks and thinks the same thing, this has been a big deal for me. And it was particularly important to me that, apart from the delegation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs through the diplomatic consular network, our ambassadors across the member states spoke with MPs at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and they also agreed on a number of meetings and the people who came here in advance knew what it was about. And, of course, in that part of the job, our diplomatic consular network is set aside a mission in Strasbourg that has done a big job. About how much misunderstanding existed at the very beginning of this, calling it, the process can be said more by colleague Marković because she was at the first session of the Monitoring Committee. However, this overall ended, and I will only illustrate this, resulting in a vote that there were 143 to 12 on one of the amendments proposed by the BiH delegation and that these amendments had over 50 signatures. So there were five of us, so another 45 other people from different countries signed it and thus gave their support. I agree with my colleague, Šepić, it didn't seem like it at first. When it comes to content, we have all had opportunities to get acquainted with it, it is similar to in previous resolutions, so that half of the resolution goes to repeat the earlier positions of the Council of Europe and the earlier quotations of parts of the resolutions concerning BiH, while there are also a few things that have been updated and which are what they are. I, what's important to say, here's no media we're talking to each other, not one of the members of the delegation came from a party corner, really isn't, because there was maybe even a reason that some of the members of the delegation showed dissatisfaction with some of the parts of the resolution, but there was no performance. We have concentrated on two things that were important and offered these three amendments to these Articles 11 and 12 and one member that mentioned them. In the debate itself, it is a surprise to me that several views have appeared criticising the international community's approach to BiH, that it is more technocrat than essential. They were even our fellow MPs who, I must point out, weren't aware of us saying such things, although there were those who offered themselves here's what it suits you to say, but those who I want to quote are not, who say, that the international community should be an honest partner who,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17309	A fellow Sarajlić to return to the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17310	So, the international community should be an honest partner who makes concrete moves and specifically helps BiH rather than making adventurous moves whose consequences are not at all aware of what they will be like. Even some of the MPs stood up and said they remember the wartime in BiH when because someone in the international community, in bodies, might not be in the Council of Europe,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17311	Time. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17312	Here I am ending, it seemed logical, that the moves were made and stalled with some of the processes that resulted, unfortunately, in the deaths of a large number of people in BiH. All in all, I am encouraged first of all by what I saw in our delegation and I am putting an accent beyond all those people who have shown understanding. And if it's any use to this whole thing, if we learn a little bit from a show like this together, it's going to be good for all of us, because here we have shown when we act together, when we involve more people, when it has a synergy effect, that some result can be... Unfortunately, in this case, it was our job to prevent suspension, but if we do so on other matters, I am encouraged.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17313	Thank you. The word has been sent by Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'll put it briefly, given that my colleagues have already said a significant part of what is important to say for the adoption of this recommendation in Strasbourg. Our colleague Saša Magazinović praised us nicely as a delegation, although it must be admitted that this job that we have now done at this session has greatly clouded their big remark that we have been in the Council of Europe for three years and we still cannot choose the head of the delegation, so it is also an observation in the Report. But what we did with our activities and what we did there was very much clouded, so we made a very positive impression on that. I'm not going to repeat what they said before, but I'm going to say just a few things that I think is a message from this recommendation. So this is no longer the resolution that you are talking about, but it is a recommendation, because the amendments we have tabled as a delegation have been adopted with more than 2/3 of the MPs present, and it has been enough to be 2/3, and that, by adopting these amendments, we are disabling the key content of the Resolution, and this further means in the process of transforming it from the resolution into a recommendation. Which will say that the amendments we managed to eliminate two members, one was sanctions immediately, and the other was a suspension of BiH from the Council of Europe following the October elections next year, it would probably mean that it would be discussed in January 2015. For the time being, I say, it has been eliminated and that does not mean that unless the verdicts of Sejdić and Finc, of which the recorded message and what we heard there, it is said that the Council of Europe will certainly not give up on it and go beyond that that BiH does not implement that ruling in the Constitution before the October elections next year. So it's a clear message and we're in this way, and by this procedure, we're probably just getting time not to be sanctioned, which would produce some kind of detimulation or some kind of contrast, so maybe it wouldn't give us enough motivation to work on that, or reform the Constitution in this regard. But I think what we've got in time obliges us that this verdict must be implemented. I also want to say that this is the outcome of the vote and the transformation of the resolution in a recommendation that has much less, less, this one, this one to say, a binding character than 71 Resolutions, but for us as a member it is binding and this recommendation, so that, I say, has left one positive impression, the overall atmosphere of such an atmosphere on the entire Parliamentary Assembly in the Council of Europe. What I would like to stress, Mr. Chairman, is that I think it would be polite and that it would be correct on our part that our Parliament may be sending a letter of gratitude, because we were Parliamentarians there, so to send a letter of gratitude to the countries that supported us, which are mostly neighbouring countries. Serbia and Croatia have made a great effort as delegations and lobbying MPs, both in collecting signatures and in supporting us. Also, Slovenia, Montenegro, Macedonia and of course other countries, large countries, large delegations such as Russia, such as Turkey, Greece, Spain. So these are all the countries that have given us unreserved support and certainly that without that support and support from those MPs we would not, the five of us there, have failed to do such an important job. In the end, I want to say that since 2006, or '07. when I first entered there within our delegation there were several reports, if I recall correctly, there were three or four reports so far, each of these reports was very, very rigorous towards BiH and the resolutions adopted were very rigorous with, in a sense, and threatening measures from the resolution we received, and we ourselves know that if we read those resolutions that we felt uncomfortable, because we saw what the Council of Europe thought about the political situation in our country. Of course, this does not mean that they see the political situation in BiH now that it is pink, but it has proved to be a large, large degree of understanding and in some way encouraging us to endure, primarily in implementing the ruling in the case of Sejdić and Finc, so that the elections would be democratic and ultimately be recognised by the Council of Europe. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17315	Thank you. The word has an MP, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17316	Thank you. I will begin with that saying: the poor house which the village defends is a poor house which the village is at peace. So here it is now 20 years from BiH's recognition and adoption of the imposed constitution. After 20 years, we haven't been getting up to bring the Constitution to ourselves. So BiH is still a failure. Only me, so people in the Council of Europe, smartly, far in democracy, step away from us in institutions and experience, but the motion for a resolution, point 9 of the democratically elected institutions such as the Parliament of the BiH Assembly or the tripartite presidency should not be given orders from political party leaders, but should work towards the four-year term they received from voters, etc. Now I don't know what the reason is that they are then receiving these leaders and therefore, it's one demagogue approach and even from the Council of Europe, because, since BiH is a failure, for 20 years we haven't been getting up to bring our constitution. Now, I justify the reasons and all things, but so the Council of Europe that sends us these messages, they have this legal mechanism -- the OHR High Representative, they can help us. 72 My recommendation, or my opinion, especially when RS says it should, 96th point, RS needs to understand that there is no future outside BiH, it needs to suspend continuous calls for independence, then weaken and attack institutions at the state level, abuse of the entity voting mechanism in the state parliament, in order to simply block all legislation that does not like it. The main Bosniak party should stop misusing the mechanisms of vital national interest and the main Croatian parties must understand that their Maksimalist requirement for full equality, and under the rule of justice, Sejdić – Fonci, could be a dangerous blow to democracy. So these two points are somewhat opposite and demagogue. If they want to help us, then they have a mechanism - a high representative and to unplug the process or to close the door first thing tomorrow, so that we can come to ourselves and sober up. That's my message. So if they want to help us have a mechanism -- a high representative, they can do it, or they can close all our doors tomorrow, as it says, that we sober up and start doing our job, which is why we're chosen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17317	Thank you. Last reported MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17318	Well, here it is, very briefly. So, we as promoters, about a colleague of Azra said what we expected. Of course, we are really looking at things that may have been a delegation too unprepared and that we have all slightly forgotten some materials, etc., but I repeat, our main goal was to see further than our position, the position of the legislative body that Ivanković was talking about, so that Parliament for the Council of Europe is responsible, but then invites the heads of the party, etc. My kolegica Marković rightly said she felt uncomfortable in some situations, and I can think that our delegation now felt worse and fought, asked for, prayed for help, etc. that this text of the Resolution is changed, and the heads of the parties did not feel uncomfortable because they were not pushed out. And they are practically the ones who create the overall situation and bring this Parliament into a very ungrateful position. So, in any case, it was nice, or glad to hear that our delegation appeared uniquely, that she was able to obtain a significant number of delegations above, etc. We support absolutely what colleague Marković proposes to thank the delegations for their cooperation, for their assistance, for their constructiveness, etc. It would be good if our delegation sat down tomorrow and chose that chairman, bravely, if you can't pull out the note otherwise, so whoever runs this delegation, that tomorrow it doesn't come up that we don't have a head of delegation, etc. You don't have to ask the bosses, the bosses have forgotten the division of those places, etc., the year is up until the term of office. So, come on, pick that boss. But what we expect will not end today on this, there are a number of things there, so Resolution is changed in the recommendation, but from the recommendation come obligations. And let's make some of that commitment, so to speak, let's put it on paper, and see what it is that we can do here in Parliament, so with the committee's preparation, I hope that the College of ours will run for the agenda of some of our next sessions, etc. We won't be able to recognise the 2014 elections. It will spring these three months, then there will be a story doesn't change election law in the year 73, etc. We will spring, we have warnings and OSCE, warnings from the Council of Europe, etc. We get them every day. So, I expect that our delegation, whether there are delegation heads, Magazinović, Šepić, Marković, will sit down and suggest to this Parliament, the College, what it is we could do in the next 2-3 months, based on these recommendations that are binding. Here's another thank you for agreeing to let us talk about this a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17319	Thank you. Is this a mistake, colleague? Replica, Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17320	What we don't want to end, is, in a good spirit. Anyway our delegation was this time seems unique to me. At least that's what their discussions say and what's good. But here, my opinion,... no matter how many delegations have helped us, I am above all glad that these delegations of neighbouring countries that are in the Council of Europe, means these recommendations, or the application of these recommendations, or rather the introduction of any sanctions on BiH, are not due to anything by this delegation, but above all by the leaders of political parties who have been forced by Mr File to sign what they have signed. If these gentlemen, in these next four days, how many of them are left until Friday, they didn't bring up the work they've already lied to there, Brussels, Strasbourg, Ženeva and New York and all the other big cities in the world and Moscow, then are we, then we're going to get sanctions. No matter how complicated our delegation was and she had her president, and she should have him. So we do not need to fool ourselves here, is it, but we should call on the Council of Europe and the EU not to punish the citizens of BiH, not to punish this Parliament here, because today, from several discussions, we have heard various colleagues and debaters, and to say, it can do in essence not to ask anything, that quite some other people are asking themselves. Here said Mr Ivanković, says some Presidency and parliament are doing their job, and then they are essentially talking to political party leaders. It's some punishment for political party leaders, the type of thing they've already said, to introduce visas to get out of BiH, to block their bank accounts, etc., then we'll get to Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci's verdict quickly, we'll get changes to the electoral law, we'll get new elections, we'll get new coalitions. Here, that in fact and that discussion we could all come down to about five minutes. And let our delegation do his job responsibly, he has Parliament's support. I, too, am also to be instructed, means to thank all these delegations that have signed with our delegation, here to postpone, at the very least, these sanctions that have been imposed on the citizens of BiH and the state of BiH. And certainly not leaders and key problems of things and processes in BiH. There's so much chairmanship.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17321	Thank you. I'm closing item 15 of the agenda. 74 We move to 16. If you agree to unite the 16th and the 17th? Can we? Ad. 16. Proposal for appointing a member from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to a delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at the Union Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean Ad. 17. Proposal for appointing members from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Delegation in the Francophonia Parliamentary Assembly So, a proposal from the Užega College and the Expansive College to appoint Denis Bećirović as the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Union Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean of the House of Representatives. A delegation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to the Francophonia Parliamentary Assembly, also a unanimous proposal from the Uzeg College and the Extended College to propose from the Milica Marković House of Representatives and Azra Hadžiahmetović. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda, Ad. 18. Consideration of the Commission's conclusions on finance and budget on the report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The management of goods taken away in customs procedures", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17324	We haven't considered it, we've postponed the review of the 19th point for the next session, and so I suggest you don't enter into a plea today because we've asked for further information. That's what I said earlier in the discussion. So, we have not spoken out, and I propose that neither Parliament be declared.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17325	Okay. Comrade Zijad Jagodić. Here you go. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17326	I thank the chairman. By reading these decisions on contracts and giving consent to ratification, under point 21, giving consent regarding Corridor 5c, page 9, reading clearly shows that it is a technical error, but since I see that there has been, noticeably, a mass of errors, I propose that this Treaty be withdrawn, or this decision, because, instead of 25m euros, 25 000 euros were written. So I don't think a proposal like this would be good, and I'd like to, I suggest that it be... [[Common discussion]] No, look. And to be honest, it's also methodologically so ugly, inappropriate for such a big 205m-euro contract, I think it deserves to be marked to prepare it and I suggest that at least this decision be returned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17328	That's point 21. Send it to us in writing, if the proposal is a conclusion. The word has an MP, Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17329	Well, I have this adopted agenda and it's on point 21. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on border crossings. That's how it stands with me. And I think this question should be kind of considered a special question. Especially the chairman, I ask that we plead on this issue, therefore, not in the package, but when the time comes, of course, to plead ourselves separately. The 21st was adopted by me. [[Common discussion]] I have 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement. But I think we understood what it was about.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17331	... It's a debate. [[no microphone turned on]] And the proposal is to postpone the vote at point 19. [[Common discussion]] Well, I think it must be the same for everyone - giving consent to ratify the Treaty... 76 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17334	That's what we'll do in the voting phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17335	In the voting phase. Okay. I'm the only one, since we've had the debate on these agenda points, we can conclude that this is the end of this phase, when it comes to discussions on these agenda points and we vote, in 15 minutes, here you are in the O.R. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, we approach the vote on agenda items of the 54th session. We move on to point 1 – The adoption of the minutes of the 53rd session of the House of Representatives. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have adopted a record from the 53rd session of the House of Representatives. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Witness Protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading). First we will vote on the amendment and MP Milorad Živković's proposal. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I figure we got 14 in, 15 against. The amendment doesn't have a general majority. 77 We are now going to vote on the draft law in a second reading with 11 amendments contained in the Constitutional Commission Report. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I realize that we have a general majority, that we don't have the necessary entity majority and that we're going to go to a later adjustment. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a law on the protection of persons reporting corruption in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – MPs: Lazar Prodanović, Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović, Azra Hadžiahmetović, Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Spremo and Šefik Džaferović (second reading). We are voting on the draft law in a second reading with 11 amendments contained in the Constitutional Commission Report. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have adopted this bill in the second reading. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina – MPs: Lazar Prodanović, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović and Azra Hadžiahmetović (second reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we adopted this bill in the second reading, noting that the CCI is still in this room. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on indirect taxation - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we adopted this bill in the first reading. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a law on the availability of immovable military property – Proposers: SDPBiH Club MPs and SBBBiH Club (the law in first reading). We vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. 12 against SR, I find that the House of Representatives did not adopt this Law in the first reading. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – The Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2012. We're voting on receiving knowledge of the report. 78 Prepare to vote. Vote now. We have the necessary general majority, we don't have the necessary entity. It's an ex post adjustment. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "conditions for effective and effective VAT control and forced debt collection", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. We vote on the adoption of the Recommendation Report contained in it. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. We have the necessary and general and entity majority, and I'm realizing that we've adopted this Recommendation Report. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MEP Beriz Belkić on the debate on the Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2012. This is where we vote in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I find that this proposal has reached the necessary majority in the second round and has been adopted. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal to carry out an individual vote on the conclusions of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH's opinion with a proposal for conclusions on the blockade of BiH institutions 05-07.06.2013. Today we are voting in the second round on a proposal for a single vote on the conclusions of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17340	Mr. Chairman. The SNSD club proposes that the vote on point 21 be postponed for the next session. It is therefore a matter of giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on border crossings, No: 01,02-05-2-1009/13, of 19/09/2013.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17341	I now have one question to resolve – can we now adopt this conclusion at the moment of the vote, or should we say that while we were still discussing it? We can't do business. common discussion
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17342	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17344	...to make our motion known before the vote to the House. If he pleads to delay the office, if he doesn't come forward, then we vote. Is he all right?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17345	... We're in the voting process, you have a Rules of Procedure... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17346	...we'll vote on the proposal, it's a proposal from the SNSD Club to postpone... 82
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17347	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17348	Business intervention, MP Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17349	... It's impossible for the Rules of Procedure to plead like this. So, the Rules of Procedure did not foresee this possibility, Mr. Chairman. Because of the stenogram, I want this to get into the stenogram, so at the voting stage, you can't plead the way you imagined it. So it's in line with the Rules of Procedure, and I'll find which member, it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17350	Wait a minute, my colleague Bojić is absolutely right that we need to clear this up in business. There's no strict ban on what we're trying to do either, but I'm going to ask the secretary right now, and let's see what provision says we can't or can't, so it's completely clean, although, colleague Bojić, I'm looking at the mood, it doesn't seem to go through this... but I agree with the business to clarify. Secretary, is there an explicit provision on this?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17351	There's no strict mention. I don't know that there's a strict mention, but everything,...is mostly going to the end, until the debate is over. So something's coming off the agenda, something's delaying, until the debate's over. Now. common discussion
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17352	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17354	I am inadequately reasoned by the secretary, so there is no business obstacle to pleading on a proposal to postpone the vote on this point, on this agreement. We just removed the question, I didn't want to get into the debate, but I don't think the Foreign Affairs Commission is competent for financing the sewers without being competent for the issue of a health care agreement. Therefore, here on behalf of the Club, I request a postponement of the vote under this agreement for the next session. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17355	All right, please prepare for the vote, so we are voting first on a proposal from a colleague of Prodanović to postpone the vote on this point for the next session. Who's in favour of a colleague's Prodanović? Vote now. So, the predstavnički of Representatives decided not to accept this proposal from a colleague of Prodanović. We will now vote on – Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on border crossings. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. 19 for, 11 against, we don't have an entity majority. It's an ex post adjustment. So this concludes the 54th session. The next session of the House is scheduled for 24.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17356	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-07-0.u17357	Please prepare for the vote, let's do it again. Even though we've concluded, here's to not having any dilemmas. Vote again now. There's nothing that's really changed. There's only 12 against it instead of 11. Let me congratulate all Bošnjak on the upcoming Kurban Bayram, to spend it in health and rickety. I would like to note that the next session of the House of Representatives is October 24th, and this meeting is held on October 23rd. Thank you for your cooperation. Session completed at 5:10 p.m.
