ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14970	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I will ask you to take your seats. I am opening the 48th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives. Our regular guests, the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH, representatives of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the BiH Constitutional Court and the Human Rights Institution, and representatives of the media, were invited to the meeting. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence was justified by MPs Borislav Bojić, Milica Marković, Ismeta Dervoz, Lazar Prodanović, Anto Domazet, and MP Saša Magazinović announced a delay. According to the Service's information, 30 MPs are present at this time. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. When it comes to changes to the session agenda, I would like to mention the following. The following are added to the agenda: point 4. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. Point 17. A statement on Parliamentarian Zijad Jagodić's initiative from the 43rd session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.02.2013, which reads: "I submit an initiative to enable citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to fully monitor the meetings of the BiH Parliamentary House of BiH through the state-run TV broadcaster starting from 01.03.2013." Point 18. Proposal for a decision to resolve members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency of BiH. Point 19. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and other measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 2 Point 20. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Act. Point 6 has been removed from the previous agenda. A report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2012 because of the inability to deliver an opinion on the Report to the Joint Commission on Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency. A letter from the Joint Commission, which lists the reasons for the lack of opinion, has been given to you. This agenda has also been adopted on a rope and then on an extended college, unanimously by all both the positional and opposition parties. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. There's no reports or anything. The word is from Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14971	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and for your success in this presidency, given that you have taken this obligation today. I welcome all present. On behalf of the SNSD Club, I suggest a new agenda point. We have always tried to respect the principle that those who participate in the work of the Extended College do not propose new agenda points at the session itself. But because of the situation in which we found ourselves on this agenda, we were also looking at the extended college yesterday, and I suggested that it be placed on the agenda and we made one agreement that MP clubs should get acquainted with this proposal and that today we formally propose it at this session. So, as you have, here's the material in hand, we suggest that an investigative commission be formed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives which would determine possible abuse irregularities and determine the situation in the BiH Direct Taxation Directorate. As we have shown in this explanation, our motive is, it is not that, although the commission has its own name that may immediately associate certain things at the beginning at this time, and I will read it whenever I read it – respecting the latest activities of the state authorities, public appearances and letters of senior officials of the Directorate for indirect taxation, media inscriptions and public polemics, and in particular taking into account the drastic fall of the Administration's income, and that in all this, we propose to the House of Representatives that, in accordance with the Poslanik, we adopt a conclusion on the formation of the Investigation Commission in order to..., which would determine all these allegations. The key moment in this whole story is the fall in the Administration's income, and unfortunately in this economic situation in which BiH is located, all eyes are on the management's revenues. If there were better times, maybe all of these would be viewed differently. Certain irregularities, illegalities, criminal activities in other institutions, local communities, they are of general character but the damages are solely to the citizens and to the local community or members of that institution. But since the Direct Taxation Administration has such a constitutional and legal position in BiH, any abuse in the administration or inadequacy and irresponsibility for the consequences is being damaged by all BiH citizens. That 3 refers to the whole of BiH and any illegality there... or reluctantness, or irresponsibility has just that as a consequence.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14972	Time is set to three minutes. Name the number of the dots.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14973	Here, I'm finishing up, so I suggest you be number 19 in front of these decisions, behind...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14974	19. Thank you. Is anyone else applying for a discussion on the agenda? I find that there are no more reports. On the basis of the agenda offered, we have one proposal from the SNSD Club, so that as the 19th item of the agenda today, a new item of the agenda is to be included, which is – The formation of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to determine possible irregularities and abuses, in the Directorate for indirect taxation of BiH. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary majority and general and entityal and that this SNSD Club proposal has been accepted by the House of Representatives. So, as the 19th point of the agenda, this item of the agenda should be included. I find that the 48th session of the House has the next Agenda 1. Approval of the minutes of the 47th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Legislative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of Deposits in Banks of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-17/13 of 11.04.2013. (scheduled debate at the 47th session of the House, held on 18.04.2013); 4. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-23/13 of 20.05.2013; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Proposal Procedure before the Court of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-8/13 of 05.02.2013. (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law implementing the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons - 4 Proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-18/13 of 15.04.2013. (first reading); 7. Annual report on the results of the Human Rights Institution's 2012 Human Rights Institution and the Annual Report on Discrimination in BiH, issue: 01-12-474/13 of 08.04.2013; 8. Special Report of the BiH Ombudsman Institution for Human Rights and on the complaint of former Republika Srpska Customs Administration of the Republic of Serbia and Customs Service of the Brcko District of BiH from August 2010, issue 01,02-37-417/13 of 29.03.2013; 9. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2012, issue: 01-09-495/13 of 15.04.2013; 10. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's letters (in line with the conclusion of the Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes with the 19th session, held on 16 April 2013.) number: 01,02-50-12-18-19,113 of 17.04.2013; 11. Proposal for a resolution on the condemnation of the crime of genocide in Srebrenica – Proposers: MPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić, issue: 01-02-2-419/13 of 29.03.2013; 12. A review of Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's initiative from the 46th session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.03.2013, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (“the Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 33/06, 41/06, 81/06, 91/06, 91/07, 87/09 and 28/12), I submit the next parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver in the parliamentary procedure the draft law on the ban on the challenge and spread of national, religious, racial and other forms of hatred in Bosnia and Herzegovina.’; A review of Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's initiative from the 46th session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.03.2013, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (“the Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 33/06, 41/06, 81/06, 91/06, 91/07, 87/09 and 28/12), I submit the next parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver the draft law on diaspora Bosnia and Herzegovina by the end of 2013’; Consider the initiative of MP Šemsudin Mehmedović from the 46th session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.03.2013, which reads: “Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (“the Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 33/06, 41/06, 81/06, 91/06, 91/07, 87/09 and 28/12), I am launching an initiative to return the Kulina Ban Charter to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask the BiH Council of Ministers to initiate the procedure for the return of the original copy of the Book of Kulina Ban from St. Petersburg, Russia, Bosnia and Herzegovina’; 15. Review of MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović's initiative from the 46th session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.03.2013, which reads: “In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I launch an initiative to adopt a Resolution on the establishment of eGovernment"; 16. Review of Parliamentarian Salke Sokolović's initiative from the 46th session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.03.2013, which reads: On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I urge the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to discuss and take a position on the validity of the mandate of city council presidents and mayors of the City of Mostar’; A statement on Parliamentarian Zijad Jagodić's initiative from the 43rd session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.02.2013, which reads: "I submit an initiative to enable citizens of 5 Bosnia and Herzegovina to fully monitor meetings of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives through the state-run TV broadcaster to start from 01.03.2013," number: 01-50-19-277/13 of 28.02.2013. (initiative under review at the 46th session of the House, held on 28.03.2013); 18. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency of BiH; 19. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an investigative commission of the House of Representatives to identify possible irregularities and abuses and conditions in the BiH Direct Taxation Administration – Proposers: SNSD Club MPs, issue: 01-50-1-15-48/13 of 23.05.2013; 20. Appointing three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 21. Appointing three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Act; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on a multi-user programme for TMPUS 2012 under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, No: 01,02-05-2-508/13 of 18.04.2013.; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Project of Technical Support for the Promotion of the Investment Climate and Institutional Strengthening, issue: 01,02-05-2-52/13 of 22.04.2013; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, No: 01,02-05-2-520/13 of 22.04.2013; 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty on the Transfer of Convicted Persons between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of India, No: 01,02-05-2-509/13 of 18.04.2013. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 47th session of the House of Representatives You've got a record from the 47th session. Any objections to the record? Here you go. I find there are no reports and I close the first item of the agenda. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. MPs' questions: a) Comments on answers received
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14978	Well, I have to say a few words about the response to the parliamentary initiative that I filed a year ago, which is related to the analysis of the state of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the diplomatic and consular network. So, the foreign ministry has been obliged to deliver us, this is the second term I seek answers to these questions, what is the state of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and what is the state of the diplomatic-consular network. Here, I can see that even in this term, we will not get an answer, because the ministers no longer respond, now the ministerial assistants who inform us that they cannot send an answer until, because the Presidency has not considered the material on the subject last year. So this was about the conclusion of the SDP, which he probably knew at the time that we were not going to get answers and that we were going to stay, probably waiting for a third term, to see what was going on at the Foreign Ministry, and especially what was going on in the diplomatic-consular network. I am very disappointed with this relationship between the executive and the BiH Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14979	The word has an MP, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14980	I thank you, and I warmly welcome you all. I have received a response to a parliamentary initiative that I am not satisfied with, and it concerns the establishment of a payment system at the level of the BiH state in agriculture and rural development. So, after 4 years of work by a group formed by the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry, I get a response from the Council of Ministers – given that BiH will be able to use pre-accession funds for agriculture and rural development in recent times, but provided that it does establish an implementation structure that is in line with the EU's request and according to the constitutional structure in 7 BiH, talks on this issue should be transferred to a high political level in order to find a solution to the problem and arrangements on finding an IPARD operating structure model in BiH. So, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, there is no chairman, which is a higher structure, more than the executive body of the Council of Ministers, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, if he does not say who is holding it back and asking for his shift, it is obvious that the Council of Ministers does not want to do its part of the job and then questions are raised about the shift of the Council of Ministers' chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14981	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14982	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I asked the question – at what stage is the creation of the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Ministers and other state officials of the state administration? I would like to remind you that the proposal was accepted by the House of Representatives sometime at the 12th month with a period of a month. Now, in fact, the end of the fifth month, the Council of Ministers has done nothing so far. In response, I am totally unsatisfactory with the answer, this is a avoidance, a factual avoidance of the drafting of this law and the divorce of the given answer, and this is where the Council of Ministers is obliged to draft this law because it was accepted by the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives under this name. I ask the question – How can the Council of Ministers change the request of Parliament's House of Representatives? If the law is required, it cannot be changed either by the Ministry of Finance or by the Ministry of Justice. I, of course, pointed out in a number of occasions to the non-functional relationship of the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. the House of Representatives, in this particular case, and the Council of Ministers. The council of ministers does not follow the parliament's decisions, and this is one of the biggest problems of functioning the state government system in BiH. It's shown up in a series of opportunities.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14983	I only remind you that it's time for comments up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14984	Okay. This vision is a deliberate avoidance of the making of that law. I would ask this Parliament to insist on implementing its decisions. Parliament has very high rights to the Council of Ministers, has both organisational powers and financial powers and personal powers. Please use them. And that's exactly what I thought it was through that law that we don't have every year how much the director of this management organization spent on cars, on phones, etc., which are his rights. They are commanders, these issues should be discussed, in which frameworks can be moved, etc., and not now in this situation when in fact every minister does what he wants, or director of an administrative organisation. Where do we live? Is this a state of law or is this... where everyone plows as they please? Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14985	Thank you. A comment on the answer received has an MP, Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14986	Since it's three answers I hope I don't exceed this time of two minutes. From the House of Peoples of the Federal Parliament, I received an answer to the question of how long it came with the adoption of new features of the Federation of BiH, coat of arms and flags. I remind you that the Federation Constitutional Court has declared these traits unconstitutional. This response still lacks answers from the House of Representatives and the Government of the Federation, but they probably won't change anything. It turns out that for four years, just over four years, there's nothing to do about it. So, there is nothing to do with the implementation of the decision of the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court and no one at all. I received an answer from the Council of Ministers to the question raised – What international agreements, agreements or conventions have so far been adopted by BiH, and have all those who have been accepted and require ratification and ratification? I've limited the question to documents that go beyond the regional framework. Instead of trying a little hard to answer a question that's pretty clear, at least in my opinion, I've got a list of all the international contracts deposited at the Foreign Ministry. So, and those of regional character, bilateral something, which I didn't ask for at all, and I didn't get an answer to the question – Are there international contracts that require ratification without being ratified? Well, for this reason, of course, I repeat this question. And the third thing, here's a very short one, I'm pleased with the information I've received about the realization of the digitalisation project, although of course I'm not happy with the realization of the digitalisation project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14987	Thank you. The word has an MP, Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14988	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. I, as you recall, asked a question at one of the previous sessions – Did a security check by our face agencies, Goran Zubac, which is still acting as director of SIPA. I got the answer that a check was made, but only for the degree of secrecy "Secret," that's one medium degree of secrecy, if we know that secret documents are graduated "confidential", "secret" and "very secret". One quite logical question arises – How is it that our SIPA director does not have access to very secret information of any kind? Therefore, whether it is inappropriate for such a type of data or did not require the need to carry out verifications under the Code on the Protection of Secret Information means by agencies for that type of document. 9 So, here I am, renewing the question of the Ministry of Security – does the position of the director of SIPA not include access to very secret information? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14989	Thank you. The word has an MP, Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14990	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I have received an answer to two parliamentary questions, one has spoken of the quality of imports of tobacco products with which I am satisfied, the other has talked about objects that do not fall into order of perspective locations which are in a devastated state and which should be destroyed. Unfortunately, I'm making a point of even asking our questions. When we ask a particular institution or any ministry if it does not apply to them, I don't think it's correct to just say it – that doesn't apply to us. I guess we should be some kind of team where the question that's being asked, if it applies, will delegate to the other of the institutions, in order to have a quality answer. The most important thing here is to take off your responsibility, I don't think that's right. So we are required to ask a few questions again and again. I think in that direction, we should all be able to relate to our questions differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14991	Thank you. The word has an MP, Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14992	Thank you. I have received a few answers from which I can say that I would just like to say a few words about two or three answers to my questions from previous sessions, and they relate primarily to the Border Police, the Administration of indirect taxation and one is related to the area of electricity. However, as far as the border police are concerned, I sought – which are the places where the most traffickers of goods and broad consumption and high tariff goods, etc., excise goods, however, I received information from the Border Police that it is practical, that these are locations where they were practically not located at the right time, but that it is in the interior of the country, and that the most often smugglers use some locations of hills, hills, hills, etc., which, in some ways, are not immediately visible and sensitive to them. I think this is a really serious question, and this is the answer that gives me information, or I'm satisfied with the answer, but I'm not satisfied with the way in which the perpetrators of the smugglers of all kinds of goods are identified and discovered. As regards the administration of indirect taxation, I also insisted and asked them to give me – at which border crossings they have established, what are the values of excise goods, goods of a wide 10 consumption, what have they done, whether anyone is punished, whether one of the employees of the Administration of indirect taxation has been practically removed, justified or unwarranted, whether in court there are cases which are being conducted against the employees of the Administration of indirect taxation and that they are not responsible for this? Or that there are those who are responsible, and that practically...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14993	The commentary time is up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14994	I know the chairman, but please, since we have sessions once a month I can't answer you for 9 questions and 10, so please have at least a half-minute understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14995	You don't answer to me, pal.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14996	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14997	So respecting the Rules of Procedure is democracy, not respecting anarchocracy. I believe you are for democracy. The word is Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14998	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome the esteemed presidency, fellow MPs and all present in the O.R. I've got two answers to the questions asked and the Foreign Trade Ministry thanks for the answer, and I'm happy with it. However, with another answer to the question I asked about the electrification of a part of Bihać municipality that once belonged to the Drvar Municipality, I definitely cannot be satisfied because it is devastating what it says in the answer. What it says in response is that on 20.11.2012, it means exactly 17 years after Dayton's signature, only 12 households, out of about 50, received electricity and the others did not. And the answer says Bog knows when he'll get it. So, even in 2013 it wasn't planned for these people to get electricity. So they live there, they start coming back in '97, meaning '97. For the full 16 years, 50 households in BiH live without electricity, literally cut off from the world. I'm not happy with the answer. In response, I still got what was done by infrastructure facilities, so if we exclude some riverbed cleaning, only for these 17 years 40,000 marks were invested in 1,2,3,4,5.7 villages on the territory of Bihać Municipality, or Drvar, I don't even know what to say anymore. Here, since I'm running out of time, I'm going to rephrase my question, so I'm going to reroute it, and I'm going to expand it a little bit. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u14999	Thank you. The word has an MP, Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15000	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have received an answer to my parliamentary question, it has been asked to the Council of Ministers, and it is one of the crucial problems of every state and every society – the juvenile delinquency and the way it is solved, prevented and punished. I only got an answer from the Minister of Security and the Ministry of Security. I'm grateful for that for two reasons. The first thing he did, like any good and proper ministry, to answer his MPs' questions. But as the Council of Ministers, I am not satisfied, this question was addressed to the Council of Ministers. This problem was not so easy to solve, nor will it ever be. In all societies, both before and after us, juvenile delinquency will always be present. It's up to us what it's going to be and what it's going to be. The mode of prevention hasn't been solved properly yet. This was to be included in each other's ministry with Mr. Sredoj Nović at the head, and that automatically pulls both the Council of Ministers and his financial department, to see how much funds he has for such things, you know. We're not yet, we're satisfied with the work of our police, because let's be honest with ourselves, in recent months there's been no headlines of the newspaper that minors have committed the most serious crimes. Just remember, not just the killings of little Mrnjavac, burning the unfortunate old lady and spilling gasoline, etc., etc., in the last decades that have plagued us and talked about. Now more, thank Bog, no more. True, it is still present on our streets and in our cities, but it has been prevented to the extent to which it has been so far. And I've asked the Council of Ministers to really get a report, to know what he's done, how he solves that most difficult case, what happens to convicts for the most serious crimes among minors and where they are staying. When will this facility that's been talked about be completed?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15001	kolega Bašić, I only remind you that time is up for comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15002	Okay, thank you very much, but I mean, we all love our children, and tomorrow they can be among these. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15003	Thank you. The word has an MP Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15004	Thank you very much. 12 I asked three questions. One is – How much is the total deficit in BiH, what are the judicial and non-executive judgments and when will the initiative for a fairer distribution of income at the Federation level be launched? I'm happy with the answers because they're what I expected them to be, but that's that what the people say doesn't know right what they're doing left. As far as the deficit is concerned, it is clear that only someone who has consolidated this report, which is the Directorate for indirect taxation, its macroeconomic department, and that cantons are not included in the consolidation of the deficits created in cantons at all, which is one very dangerous thing. On the other hand, I have not received any information as to the extent of the judicial and unfulfilled judgments or how far they are in the proceedings under way. And on the third hand, I received an answer – when there will be a fairer distribution of income between the Federation and the Canton. There's some draft law, I don't know what it looks like, but I'll just remind you of the fact that in the Federation 20% of all Federation income goes to salaries and material costs and 80% goes to everything else that people strike in the Federation government, while at canton level, or county 80% are wages and material costs, and only 20% remains for those who are transferred to the Constitution. And of course, at that level, we have major deficits that are indecisive and this one that will tomorrow lead to a position that someone will make certain conclusions that may need to be politically translated into some forms, and I do not think that this is an accident, that this is done on purpose, that it is knowingly failing to lead in a consolidated manner, monitoring the sustainability of all levels of government in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15005	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15006	Dear President, dear colleagues. I asked a question several sessions ago about the occurrence of aflatoxin M1 in January this year in milk, mostly people who import from Croatia. My basic problem was – why the agency, which is the BiH Veterinary Office and the BiH Food Safety Agency, did not react quickly when they clearly knew that these high concentrations of toxins had occurred. The answer is absolutely ridiculous, at least inconclusive. In response, they only act as if they were working by procedure, and the time from aflatoxin to public notice is more than 10 days. This has not happened anywhere in the world except in BiH, and I am sure after this response that certain lobbys, foreign lobbies, are involved in all these activities. Thank you. I have no more reason to ask a question, our question has nothing to do with it, and I don't think this way of answering leads to anything. The occurrence of toxins or all the toxic substances in food, medicines is a crucial problem for each country and the seriousness of each country and its agencies is just looking at how and how to dictate the same. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15007	Thank you. The word has an MP, Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15008	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I have asked two questions and both are related, both are set up for the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. I've received answers that are, as they are, but the content of what's happening is really unsatisfactory. In fact, BiH under key laws to adopt is also the Environmental Protection Act, which, for which the procedure has been launched since 2002, was continued in 2008. Years. However, the final text did not occur because we have never received it in the parliamentary procedure. I also urge that solutions be found to harmonize legislation when it comes to the environment. Why? Because 30% of Akia applies to this particular area, it's the most expensive and most expensive area. And that's why the international community through IPA projects gives us support. And my second question was – what about the project that concerns strengthening BiH's environmental institutions and preparing for pre-accession funds? The IPA 2008 funded a project that was meant to give the way and strategy of taking Aki out of this area and which, of course, should, with which all relevant levels should be agreed. However, there have been major obstructions in the process, and I think that this issue is not only a question of the ministry and the question of the environment sector, but it is also a question of this Parliament because these are the funds that we are about to ratify here, that we have the highest percentage of the use of these funds. And I also think that the specific projects that are being funded, here and threaten us finally, because of our inefficientness...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15009	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15010	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15011	We're done commenting on the answers we received. Moving on now to, b) New parliamentary issues First, MP Asim Sarajlić signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15013	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. 14 I want to submit an initiative in front of the SDA MPs' Club in the House of Representatives. So on the basis of Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives Club of the SDA submits the next parliamentary initiative. At the first next session of the House of Representatives, we propose to include the item of the agenda, which reads – BiH Minister of Security Fahrudin Radončić's statement on the allegations and claims he made in Vecernji list "Ozor", dated 18.05.2013, against the BiH presidency member Mr Bakir Izetvegović of the SDA. A brief explanation: Since he was elected BiH presidency member Bakir Izetbegović, the media, whose founder is Fahrudin Radončić, has hardly slandered more than 500 times. All this is done with the aim of political discrediting Mr Izetbegović and revenge for the election defeat of Fahrudin Radončić as a member of the BiH presidency in the 2010 general elections. However, in the journal "Ozor" Vecernje list, since 18.05.2013, Fahrudin Radončić, as BiH Security Minister, stated that the SDA has had black party funds, illegal, illegal, that a BiH presidency member Mr Bakir Izetbegović has been associated with the Bosniak state mafia and secret Muslim services, that the Bosniak mob killed Joza Leotar, Nedžad Ugljanin, the Sefer Halilović family and committed a number of politically motivated killings, and crimes against returnees in Central Bosnia, that the secret Muslim departments participated in war and war corruption fraud, that Nedžad Ugljanin went directly before the liquidation of the newspaper and claimed to be liquidated by Bakir Izetbegović, that Ramizbobić, who published in the interview "Baljibović" in the exhibition "Delalić Ćelo" in the exhibition "Bu" in the magazine "Ozedar. Since it is a heavy slander given by the BiH Security Minister, whose word has a special weight but also responsibility for being said, estimating that all this is directed towards a BiH presidency member and one of the most influential political parties in BiH, it is necessary to discuss this issue at a special agenda point at a meeting of the House of Representatives. This inadmissible and inappropriate relationship between the security minister and the head of state has not been recorded in any democratic state, especially the country that claims to become a member of the EU and NATO. This inevitably damages the reputation of the state and the credibility of its institutions. In addition to this parliamentary initiative, we will also submit a copy of the interviews that the Minister of Security Fahrudin Radončić gave to the magazine Vecernji list "Ozor", since 18.05.2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15014	Thank you. The word has an MP, Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15015	I thank the chairman. I was going to present the last initiative what I had previously wanted to answer some answers, but for today I have prepared three parliamentary initiatives and four questions. I'll try to read them briefly, because we have three minutes or two minutes, chairman. 15 As regards the first initiative, I refer to this House of Representatives for the purpose, given the extremely complex situation in the country in all respects, that they are also organised during the summer period, i.e. to schedule meetings of the House of Representatives twice a month, given the number of problems and obligations ahead of us. The second initiative concerns, addressed to the Council of Ministers, the Veterinary Office, the Food Safety Agency and the Directorate of Direct Taxation, which is initiated to strengthen the conditions of imports including customs duties for medicinal products of all kinds, food, alcohol, cigarettes and textiles. A third initiative to the government of the Federation of BiH, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Brcko District Department to carry out control of all major and suspicious stock exchange transactions and privatisation contracts through the relevant securities commissions, securities and securities, and to put them in an urgent position in the peace and banning of all activities in companies, as well as in funds until the end and clarification of all doubts and dilemmas. Explanatory in the annex. A parliamentary question for the Council of Ministers – What does the Council of Ministers intend to do to strengthen institutional governance towards the results of the work, and to change views in planning, management style, development of the capacity of managers, leadership and delegation of responsibilities? Explanatory in the annex. The BiH Council of Ministers – When can we expect the BiH Council of Ministers to start publishing all strategic and annual plans as a report on the work of institutions on the internet. Two more questions are for the Border Police and the Administration of indirect taxation regarding those responsible for the failures they gave me in the previous answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15016	Thank you. The word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15017	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I have two short questions. First it was sent to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I'm sorry he's not here. My question is – In what way will you allow me to get answers to my parliamentary questions addressed to the Ministry of Defence at the 28th session of the House of Representatives since 24.05.2012, and 37th of 06.12.2012. The Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers foresee, its Article 76, that within 15 days an answer to the parliamentary question must be given and an additional 10 days maximum to be extended. Since I have been waiting for one question for a year and for another 6 months, I think that such an inappropriate relationship with Parliament should be discussed within the Council of Ministers and I expect the chairman to do so. 16 And the second question – How many BiH covers or participates in the work of labour groups and other bodies at the Council of Europe? How many of these BiH working bodies have representatives, who are they, when appointed, name names, BiH institutions from which they come, who has appointed these representatives and who are they reporting their work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15018	Thank you. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15019	And I have two short questions. One is for the BiH Presidency and it is said – do you think that the so-called so-called The coordination mechanism derivates the constitutional law and the obligation of the BiH Presidency to launch the coordination process, how does Article 3(4) regulate it? In addition, I would like to submit a reply to the Council of Ministers on the coordination mechanism. The second issue is for the BiH Ministry of Defence and Defence. So, after years of transfer of responsibilities and various data obtained by the Ministry of Defence and the D.A., you announced intensive consultations on further steps, i.e. dealing with already collected documentation to conduct the book. Any progress? I request data for each location in terms of the availability of property legal documentation for booking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15020	The word has an MP, Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15021	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Lately, otherwise the biggest problem in BiH is employment. To get to employment is not an easy job at all, and it seems to me that on the BiH market we have so many unquality and bad goods that, in a very short time period, we can produce such products much better. My question is referred to the Council of Ministers so let them delegate it to some of the agencies, because agencies are always fenced, it is not in our jurisdiction, I ask the Council of Ministers – Who controls quality and compliance with the standards of consumer goods on the BiH market? Here, first of all, I think of electric products and electrical materials that often cause danger to people's lives and material goods because of their poor quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15022	Thank you. The word has an MP Dragan Vrankić. Here you go. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15023	Thank you very much. My question concerns the Council of Ministers – How will the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU affect the lives of BiH citizens living in Neum Municipality and how will it mitigate any negative consequences? And second question – Is the municipality of Neum sufficiently integrated with the rest of BiH because of its specific transport position? We are witnessing that we are generally talking about the consequences of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, but there is no speech about concrete spaces or life problems at all. On the other hand, when we see the Republic of Croatia she is very concerned about how to connect her territory, with us as if it were happening to someone else, and since Neum acts as if it were happening to someone else, I also refer this question to the Municipality of Neum just to hear and ask them what their position is on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15024	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15025	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I was offered the content of such a question and my discussion from last session of the House of Representatives here when we adopted certain reports, in particular a report from the State Electricity Agency, when I asked the present gentleman, whether it was about the height of their receipts. And believe that a large number of us who have heard the answer, and in the end have not received real information about the level of reception of directors, deputy directors, assistants and so on, the institution, means the founder of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH or the Council of Ministers. We also held a heated debate here at the last session on the agenda when it came to the Centre of Civil Initiatives, which is the conclusion of the College whether to adopt it, but here, today we have, whether the present Centre of Civil Initiatives, I do not think they needed to be banned from working, because the centres of civil initiatives themselves and all the media often provide information on the level of receiving representatives in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which I believe is necessary. And then they analyze for so much income that we are very inefficient, that at the level of the year, and that is the fact, we have passed very little law on the welfare of BiH citizens, the state of BiH, but we also adopt work reports, so we also adopt audit reports from all these institutions, I say, and we do not know how many are receiving these people who are doing or should be doing important jobs for BiH. They are anonymous in public, so I think that, at least from what we adopt the report, over 50% do not know us personally, MPs in Parliament, whose report we adopt, let alone how much their receipts are. For these reasons, I ask all BiH institutions whose founder is the Parliamentary Assembly or the Council of Ministers of BiH to deliver information in table form, so I would ask these from service 18 during the day or tomorrow, yes, I will make one universal table for all because, possibly if we leave it to them, they will provide answers where we will not know again, is it, how much is that amount of their income. So in the table form of the rate of receipt in the first three months of 2013, for directors, vice directors, assistants,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15026	Question time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15027	Head of Sector or Service, etc. Under the receipts, of course it means net pay, warm meal, travel expenses, living expenses, separate lives. And, of course, it's up to those who use official vehicles to use them. And here, I'm saying, I'm going to make this table at the club, so I'm going with the services that take this question, to eventually send with questions and that table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15028	I thank and remind you that if someone is a little three minutes to ask questions, you have the opportunity and the obligation to deliver it all in writing. The word has Nermin Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15029	Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome everyone present. Here, where I go with one initiative, which I direct to the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives College of the Parliamentary Assembly, which is – the initiative is tasked with the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and submit to the parliamentary procedure the Law on organ transplants and donorship in BiH at the latest. In my explanation of the following: that thousands of people in BiH are waiting for organ transplants, and for them is an organ medicine and means life and medicine. And to stress that only the kidney transplant in BiH is waiting for over 4,000 citizens and that is about 970 in the RS, over 3,000 in the Federation and over 100 in the Brcko District. I have to say in haemodialysis, it means it's over 4,000 people, and here are the indicators: - in 2011 5 kidney transplants were done in RS, 22 in the Federation, in Brcko District is not working. And I have to say this number, which is devastating, that it's just because of the doctor's enthusiasm, so we don't have coordination, we don't have bindings, we don't have donor registers, we don't have anything we'd do to really improve this defeating situation. Due to an extremely small number of transplants carried out in BiH and an increased number of transplants, as more than 15% of transplants are increased each year, I think it is necessary to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15030	Thank you. 19 The Word has an MP, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15031	Thank you. My question concerns the Council of Ministers. It reads – Will the Council of Ministers refer to the parliamentary procedure of the Law on the Rights of Cake Victims in BiH? The law on the rights of torture victims was done in cooperation with the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and was done by the Interresor Working Group with representatives of the Ministry of Human Rights, the Ministry of Justice, the Prosecutor's Office and the Government of the Brcko District and representatives of the Civil Society Organisation, who work with victims of torture, and it includes key rights of victims. In addition to the law covering the key rights of victims, this law should be passed because its absence causes enormous damage to the entity's budgets, as victims seek their rights through the court and receive compensation. Just to point out that one day in prison is 200 km, verdicts. The data we received from the representatives... together they say that they are working somewhere in the Federation about 750 million lawsuits, and in the RS, that's about 1.5 billion. A contribution to the fact that 2,500 first-degree convictions and cca 300 second-degree verdicts have been passed so far, of which the final verdict, an example in Travnik, is 178,000 KM. By passing this law, the burden on the state would be extremely low, and the assessment is that even that burden would be up to 50%. Many of the elements provided for in the law would not cost the state budget and its adoption of victims' rights would be regulated in a satisfactory manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15032	The word has an MP, Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15033	Thank you, Chairman. Here, as I have announced in my answer, so I'm going to rephrase the question a little bit now. So, I ask the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons at the Council of Ministers the following question – How many registered return homes in BiH have been restored and where do people live without electricity? How many are in the Federation of BiH and how many are in RS? And when will the electrification of the same end? I have information that there are about 15,000 housing units in the Federation alone, which doesn't mean that all the houses are inhabited, but there are 15,000. And if we take an average, let's maybe have three members live in each of those houses, you'll get a figure of 45,000 people, which means only in the Federation. It's an average Bosnian Herzegovina municipality. I sincerely hope I have the wrong information and that's not true and that's why I'm looking for an answer to this question, because really if 45,000 people still don't have electricity, then it's a huge problem. I look forward to this answer and I hope that this electrification, so these households will come as soon as possible, because it is in 2013. Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15034	The word is from Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15035	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I asked a representative question to the Federation government 5-6 months ago concerning the amount of the total debt of public enterprises in the Federation on the basis of pension-inhabited insurance and health insurance in the Federation. Since the Federation government obviously doesn't know, or has no intention of answering this question, and I found the answer to this question through the media, it is multimillion-dollar amounts of accounted and unpaid contributions based on pension and disability and health insurance. How in this way, in the most direct way, do very tense pension and disability insurance funds in the Federation go into question, as it raises the health protection of the population, I am now asking the government of the Federation – Who has approved public enterprises, which are in majority state ownership, not to pay contributions based on mandatory regulated contributions, based on these two basics of pension and health insurance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15036	Thank you. Rich has Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15037	I thank the chairman. I have one question, with three sub-questions, addressed to the Council of Ministers and concerning the database, i.e. whether there is a database, a central register of employees in all BiH institutions with relevant data relevant for the quality management of human resources? Is it also in any way that, if there is a base, it is actually used for its purpose and who is in charge and who is responsible for human resources management in BiH institutions? I explain my question, i.e. these issues in the same context, to the fact that we are witnessing employment in BiH institutions in some way, in line with some criteria that are not generally accepted criteria in force in all BiH institutions, that we are also witnesses of sometimes unquality people employed in BiH institutions, and that at the same time we have a number of more educated and capable people who do not get the chance to work in BiH institutions. And of course, and the need to provide an efficient system of human resources management, which would also respond to all the tasks that are expected of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15038	Thank you. 21 The word has a letter from Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15039	I thank the chairman. I'm going to the I.D.C. to ask a set of a few questions. First — Why the order to customs the goods referred to in Chapter 39 Customs tariffs are not published in the Official Messenger of BiH, as defined by Article 15. The law on indirect taxation management? Why can the said order of the Asian-African goods be customs only in Banja Luka, Mostar, Sarajevo and Tuzla and at two border crossings and not in other customs places, where this has been done so far, until then? Why is it out of attitude 2. Orders of the importer's regularity can be checked at individual customs stations and not at all? Has there been an analysis of the problems that existed in the import of those goods, and what conclusions have been made, and what has been suggested to be a valid order? What are the direct effects of material and organisational, achieved by implementing the order from January to the end of May? Why would you ask that? It is known that the Director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation has the right to adopt orders that are more detailed in the work and procedures of customs administrations within indirect taxation units, i.e. customs exposures. The Director's order, issued on 18.01.2013, sets out which customs offices may customs duties on certain goods originating in Asian and African countries. The customs of goods shall be carried out with full respect for the proposition given in the order even though it has never been published in the Official Messenger, nor shall it be available on the website of the Direct Taxation Authority, available for unregistered users. This has caused major problems for the forwarding organisations that work in places where those goods are allowed to be customsised, where the forwarding organisations are preferred, compared to those not from where the customs procedure is carried out. I'd like an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15040	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15041	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since we have time, as well as a congratulatory card, and here is the parliamentary issue I am renewing, which I have asked in the previous term – When will the Ministry of Justice prepare and refer to the law on cyber, i.e. Internet crime, which is a great danger to the security of all BiH citizens? 22 No particular argument should be given here, no big story. We're witnesses, the first fight starts in a bar between two faces, so the staff joins, everyone attends, then takes it to the street, then into the city, then wide and knows how far it gets. The fact that someone after this discussion of me or sometimes, some other earlier statements, is going to say that I have clumsy ears, that I'm half gray half not, that I'm one or the other, it doesn't touch me, but you're all witnesses to all of you, or us, are being sent such curses to the most vulgar, to insult my dead parents and, and, I love, and I wish everyone were alive, people from my colleagues and parents, and I don't know who, that I'm not going any further. It's just amazing. You have many websites where you can't even open... who's the founder there. We've got the Agency Intelligence Security, we've got our institutions, they've got the most modern equipment to give us the provider there that opens, I don't know somewhere, a website in New Zealand, and remember me and Denis Bećirović, so he's confrontational. Neither did I say what against Denis Bećirović nor him against me, but they made such a mess as if I had prepared it, God Bog I don't know what against my friends and colleagues. So everything here is clear to everyone. Here I don't want to say that you need to introduce censorship, that you need to prevent it. But if we can bring the codex as I'm supposed to look, the way I'm supposed to act, where I look, how I shake hands, what to say, what to say, what to watch, then I really should end up there, because so much insult and ground-floor stuff on those Internet portals, especially for us MPs when we give any statement, hundreds of them get hooked up. Well, if he said what I said, so that he criticises me, here I will accept every criticism, but that they go so ground floor, so miserable, so pathetic, that they curse me alive, even those children who haven't yet and grandchildren who haven't even walked yet, it's really amazing how far we've come. And we have a chance to stop it. Not in a way, I say, that I am against those, but it must be known who makes it, who takes the money, who causes exactly that international hatred and that impatience that no parliament will reconcile, because here, we are all witnesses, here I say publicly, we have never had a fight in Parliament, we have different views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15042	And the last parliamentary question within this item of the agenda is MP Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15043	I thank the chairman. I wish you successful work in your presidency. I hope they don't change you all at once in this period. My first parliamentary question is referred to the BiH Council of Ministers and I ask them to answer me, so – How much are foreign direct investments in our country in 2010, '11. and '12. A year? What is the trend in the movement of foreign direct investment and what are the biggest problems in this area, and what are the Council of Ministers, entity governments and Brcko District authorities doing to improve the situation in this area? And please, therefore, a more detailed review per year and per area in which it is invested. 23 The second question I refer to the government of the Federation of BiH and reads – When will the Federation of BiH increase pensions for pensioners and their compliance with wage growth, as foreseen by the law and, therefore, with the real cost increase in this entity? The third question, I also refer to the Government of the Federation of BiH – What does it do or intends to do with persons who are beneficiaries of early pensions, based on inability to work, so disability pensions, which users received on the basis of medical documentation on mental disorders? These people today have driver's licenses, they have gun licenses, they do hunting, they even work in NGOs, etc. So, do the competent institutions plan to audit these pensioners and are certain restrictions on the rights of those persons planned? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15044	Thank you. I find that there are no more reported within the second item of the agenda. I'm closing the second item of the agenda. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Amendments and Supplements Bill on Deposit Insurance in Banks of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure On 11 April 2013, the BiH Council of Ministers submitted to the procedure this Proposal for a Law requiring urgent consideration in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. At the 47th session of the House, held on 18.04.2013, the debate on this agenda was postponed. I'm opening the debate, but the application was before the hearing was held by a finance minister, who wanted to address the opening. So if you agree to give the Minister our word? Here you go. The word has Nikola Špirić, the finance minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15046	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, distinguished guests. At the very beginning, I want to thank all those who, during my absence and recovery, cared, sent messages of encouragement. Thank you all. We're back on the same assignment. I'm sorry that at last session, this agenda item was included in the session itself, so there was no one from the motion. I'm here today on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, and there's the Director of the Agency, the Secretary General, if there are any questions. I just want to say what the basic objectives of the amendment to this law are and why we have opted for an emergency procedure and therefore I ask your support. So, in order to preserve the stability of the 24 entire financial sector, where the Agency and the Deposit Insurance has a significant role to play, and in order to comply with the European directives in this area, we have decided to correct this Law. And without it, talking with the International Monetary Fund in the letter of intent was also our obligation to go to the deposit insurance law. Since, therefore, the International Monetary Fund delegation here in the regular review would be good if BiH said the Law was adopted in the House of Representatives. And of course, it would be good for everyone. I just want to draw attention to the essence of the amendments to this law. And I have to say that, as part of the debate we had at the Council of Ministers, we reached full consensus on the text of amendments to the law but also on the procedure to go into emergency procedure. So what it is is a fundamental change is that insurance, that includes insurance of legal persons' deposits. This was also in the first text of the Law and this is in line with the European Directive, but it was waiting for the Agency to develop and show full stability in its work. Then, the continued participation of banks and the member who introduced the temporary administration in the deposit insurance programme, it was not possible to do so before. And that would protect the financial system, given the effects of the global economic financial crisis. And that is, therefore, one of the major changes. And of course, erasing the possibility of the participation of the representatives of banks and banks in the work of the Management Board. I think it's a logical and correct change because it wouldn't be logical for someone from a bank association or from banks to be a member of the Governing Board of the Agency that decides, therefore, in crisis situations. Other changes that are not so important, but are important for the Agency's work and its stability, is the introduction of an emergency premium, the introduction of a membership fee that will not be reflected and additionally burdened by the costs of banks. These are fundamental changes. Here, I came here today to ask you for it. All amendments are therefore in line with EU directives but our obligation is also related to the letter of intent with the International Monetary Fund. Once again, I would like to stress that we have had a full consensus in the Council of Ministers, and I would like your support that we successfully bring this business to an end. If there are any dilemmas or questions, there's me, there's the director of the Agency, we can answer questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15047	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for the explanation of the bill. The first to be discussed by MPs has been reported by MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15048	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I therefore congratulate you, chairing the re-chairing of this House. I thank the predecessor for running the House. I wish Mr Špirić a successful return to everyday affairs and tasks after the accident he had. And as far as the very essence of this Law is concerned, I belong to those people who support the adoption of an emergency procedure law, for me it's not a problem, especially when it comes to urgent needs. And let's say that we can declare these changes to the changes of that kind, because it's about 25 meeting international standards, obligations to the International Monetary Fund. So, for me, that's not a problem, but I would ask people who write these laws, those who control them, before they are referred to parliamentary procedures, when a procedure is required to exclude Parliament from any interventions, to then take care of how they write the laws. I would only ask that the minister, director of the Agency or whoever, yes. I will not talk about the essence, so Minister Špirić spoke about the essence, so legal persons are involved, the deposit is determined by the boards of directors, so there is no more of this maximum, standards, the International Monetary Fund etc. But let's say the 18th to look at it. And it's in Article 18, paragraph 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and it literally says, "I'm undermining this, I don't know how someone's going to apply this tomorrow and this can't change if it's this procedure," the Agency says, through the Violation Commission, a fine of 1,000 to 100,000 KM to the bank of a Member if within the time limit set by the Agency doesn't deliver a recovery plan, etc., etc. And it is said, beware, as the words say, and down below, therefore, the next attitude is, for the violation of the 3rd position of this member with a fine of 1,000 to 10,000 marks, the director of the bank will be punished. This is a normal norm that we're used to in our laws. How a standard is to be applied – the Agency may impose it through the Commission for Infringements. It was probably thought here that for a violation of this type, the Violent Commission would impose a fine of 1,000 to 100,000 KM. Tomorrow, when we get into this situation, anyone who is in a position to defend anyone who is charged with a crime will have material in the law itself that they can defend him, because the Agency here says they can impose it through the Violation Commission. Who's the one who says that sentence now? The Agency or the Commission? So, please resolve this situation, if you can resolve it, fix it right here today. You can fix it, I mean, the law is necessary. So we don't have anything against this law, just don't let us pass laws that we can't apply tomorrow and that's in, this is the most important part of the law. Because you can prescribe towers and cities, write everything down nicely, but in the end, if you mess up with sanctions, you allow everyone who does this to have a problem and we all have a problem together. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15049	Thank you. The word has a letter from Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15050	I thank the chairman. Well, here, I want to say at first, the first expectation that this will be the last law we will get in the parliamentary procedure in this way, with an urgent request. I respect all the needs, but we cannot blame the Council of Ministers for why this happened, for the reason that this Parliamentary Assembly has taken off the agenda to consider the law that we had already in March, April of the month in the parliamentary procedure and which is why, due to... circumstances, the need for an emergency procedure has also appeared. And you should be aware then and the consequences of this emergency procedure. 26 So, here I am, when it is concrete about this Law, respecting what my colleague Špirić said, we will, of course, support this Law and harmonisation and with the needs of the arrangement with the International Monetary Fund and also with the introduction of European standards. But I can't, although the debate is about an urgent procedure, not to say, in the spirit and discussion that my colleague Džaferović highlighted here, elementary illiteracy when it comes to writing the law. A colleague of Špirić, on the first page, in the lists set out in point 3 stands under the 3rd erasure of the possibility of participation of the representatives. Well, we can't rule out the possibility of bank representatives participating. We can wipe out members if we change the law or disable it, or ban it, or in some way. So first, on the first page of paragraph 3, I'm talking about these basic things. Otherwise, I want to take the opportunity to mention what I said we would support, given the circumstances and circumstances related to the arrangement with the International Monetary Fund and, among other things, the reason for the overall economic situation in BiH and the need to make such arrangements, for example. We are not questioning anything, which I would also like to stress in some way and the obligation of this Parliament to finally open a debate on the economic situation which has worsened dramatically in all economic indicators since the moment we adopted such an initiative. Here, I'm deeply hoping we won't wait another half year or a year, so let's still count how many more unemployed, less growth, more external debt, etc., in the overall discussions of this species. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15051	Thank you. Since there are no more sentencing MPs for the debate, Your Honor, do you have a need?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15052	No, I don't, it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15053	All right. I'm closing the debate on the third item of the agenda. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, Mr. Mehmedović, this is for the fourth, is that right? Okay. So, Ad. 4. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure On 20.05.2013, the Council of Ministers submitted to the procedure this proposal for a law requiring urgent consideration. 27 I'm opening a debate. The first for the word is the MP, Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15055	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. There's another one in front of us in a series of legal solutions under Article 127. Rules of Procedure, i.e. by emergency procedure, where we are offered a legal solution of very important content by system take or leave. I understand that the political agreement of the parliamentary majority chosen by the Council of Ministers should be implemented, but I do not understand that in such a perfidious way it is done in an urgent procedure, without leaving the possibility for us MPs to intervene in the amendment and to correct the legal solutions offered to us. We have a very important law ahead of us. In the era when all mankind is fighting corruption as a monster of modern society, we have one legal solution that actually opens the door to the corrupt activities of high-level officials in BiH. In BiH, which, as you know, has formed the Anti-Corruption Agency, which has been tasked with active participation in the creation of legal solutions to systematically combat corruption, we do not allow this way, nor allow representatives to intervene legal solutions. I understand that you couldn't at the same time one package of laws that were the result of a political agreement to propose in parliamentary procedure. But like this, what you'd say at the spoon, every session, every session of a legal solution, and only by emergency procedure, that you actually implement a political agreement that's made far from the public eye, I think it's unprincipled. That is why I propose and, here I call on the democratic public to condemn this approach in general in addressing such important issues as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest, because this is a fully liberal law for our political conditions and conditions in which BiH is taking place and leading politics. And that is why I call upon my fellow MPs not to support nor the procedure, nor such a legal solution, unless there is an opportunity to intervene to correct this Law. And this practice, unfortunately, was taken over by the Council of Ministers far from the public eye, not even published on the websites of the Council of Ministers' decision, among other things, at one of the previous sessions, which took place on 08.05., was appointed chairman of the Office for the Review of Appeals by a new person, and said – the mandate will continue until the opening of the tender procedure for the appointment of new members of the Office for the Review of Appeals by the Parliamentary Assembly. That means never. We will brake in the Parliamentary Assembly and we have left the possibility, and I am afraid that a bit of the Council of Ministers is taking on one non-discipline practice that, at the very least, the public does not notify the work and decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15056	Thank you. And I remind you, therefore, we are discussing the request of the Council of Ministers for Emergency Procedure. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15057	I appreciate the warning, but I'm really trying to respect the Rules of Procedure. So, I'm going to discuss an emergency procedure request and say that we're going to be against an emergency procedure even though we'd rather have a scenario to adopt an emergency procedure request without the law passing and we're going to end this story. But the reasons for the emergency procedure are too serious, so we'll be against the emergency procedure. So first, this law has been in place for more than four months in the Council of Ministers. So, for four months, the Council of Ministers takes itself as a space for discussion, negotiation, etc., and gives BiH Parliament no opportunity to process. Take it or leave it. Meanwhile, we have asked, if you remember, a parliamentary question – whether for all eight laws, which are the subject of the SDP and SNSD agreements, whether the institutions implementing these laws are consulted when making the proposed amendments and additions. And we got an answer from the Central Election Commission that for the amendments and additions to the Law on Conflict of Interest, the Election Law, they learned from the media, so they didn't have the opportunity to determine. Of course I don't mention the constant insistence on consulting. This time no one mentions those consultations, etc. And, therefore, all this is about the relationship to this Parliament that people simply consider a flow water heater. The serious reason why we will be against an emergency procedure is that these changes are not simple, they are conceptual. Therefore, there is a change in the institution that implements the Law without its opinion and without an assessment of how it has implemented it so far. As I recall, we regularly had reports here from the Central Election Commission on the implementation of the laws that the Central Election Commission is implementing under the law and I did not hear in those discussions on these reports here, serious objections to the implementation of this Law by the Election Commission. Of course, on the solutions proposed by the law, if this emergency procedure is passed, I will, of course, speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15058	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15059	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. As much as a man has tried to, when these are the points of the agenda, talk only about the procedure, it is not possible to explain why the check is for or against the procedure that is proposed unless it engages in the very essence, because if, without our intervention, this Law goes by principle take it or leave it, then we will have solutions that I want to talk about. And that's why, first of all, I'm against this emergency procedure, and after that, if the law is passed, of course, I'll be against the content of the law itself. Why is it dangerous to adopt this law by emergency procedure? Why is it dangerous to consider him in an emergency procedure? Well, because then, without the possibility of Parliament intervention, we will get solutions 29 that actually mean the end of the conflict of interest in BiH. This is not the Law on conflict of interest in its content, this is the Law on the Elimination of Conflicts of Interest. After this law, there are no more provisions in serious terms in Bosnia at the level of BiH institutions that will deal with the prevention of conflicts of interest, which should be the intensity of this law. Why does the Proposer of the Law take this responsibility to the BiH Election Commission? I don't see any reason for it, nor do I see any reason in this law. We have formed an Electoral Commission, among other things, to do this job. Why does a conflict of interest involving elected officials give hands to elected officials to decide on it? Why does two-degree work go away? The election commission is a first-degree body, the BiH Court is a second-degree body. Now these decisions by this Commission in Parliament, which should have nine members, would be final, and only the administrative dispute could be launched before the Court of BiH, so this is something that is completely different from the concept that we now have. What's it gonna be? It is predicted that the Central Election Commission is to hire employees, i.e. employees of the Election Commission who deal with this problem are now employed by the agency. Then who will lead the proceedings when it comes to conflict of interest when it comes to the BiH Federation entity and the Brcko District of BiH? Republika Srpska took it from BiH's jurisdiction earlier. Does this mean that now the Federation will have its own commission, that the Brcko District will have its own commission, does that mean that it opens the way for cantons to have their own commissions now, what about municipalities? So we had it all in one place. This is a classic example of the devastion of the state institution and the taking of intelligence from the state level to a lower level in BiH. Next thing you know, watch out here, why I said there's no conflict of interest here. If proceedings are brought under this Law of Conflict of Interest and if an official realizes that he has made a conflict of interest, if he corrects the situation of the Election Commission, or this body that will be this commission, can suspend the proceedings, then there is no conflict of interest. Says the Election Commission next door, this commission that should be working on...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15060	kolega. Džaferović, just one note, so if we accept this emergency procedure request, we intend to open a debate where you will be able to enter into the essence of this Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15061	My colleague, my 10 minutes, Mr. Chairman, my 10 minutes are still going on, I said at the beginning, I knew you'd warn me about this, and I said what the content of my discussion was. If I don't say this now, and if you get in a position to adopt an emergency procedure for free I'm gonna talk later in the discussion about all this, because there's no more repairs, I can just vote against. I'm fighting to have a regular procedure so I can fix what I'm talking about, and that's why within 10 minutes I have the right to talk about these things.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15062	It's not a matter of 10 minutes, I'm just saying we're discussing an emergency procedure right now, and then we're going to open up, it's our Rules of Procedure... 30
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15063	So this is all, so this is, Mr. Chairman, this is all connected to the type of procedure. I know, so I understand what you're warning me about, thank you for that, but let me, I mean, it's too important, there are a lot of things that have to be said now when it comes to this procedure. Look, the next thing that's very important in this, and what I am, I'm actually amazed when I read this, the decisions of this committee that are planning sanctions should be made by a majority of which includes at least two representatives from every nation. So, the Council of Ministers, are you now inauguring the principle of ethnic decision-making in criminal proceedings, does that mean that we will also pass it on to the courts. So don't play, you know what that means? Political decisions can be made in this way as we speak, but these are individual acts on sanctions, an ethnic vote is being introduced. And here, let me cut short now, so this discussion of mine, please take these things, like many others that I haven't been able to say, I've done the whole analysis, I'm going to talk about it later, so I'm going to respect what you're talking about in the chairman's office, and we're going to divide these, I'm not going to share them twice in 10 minutes, but I'm going to do two times five minutes within 10 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15064	Replica has the first deputy chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15065	I thank the chairman. I wish you a successful presidency, Mr. Ljubić, thank you for your current presidency. My colleagues and colleagues. Those who have debated enough just to say that there is hope for this to be fixed in the amendment phase. Mr. Džaferović, if you think there is hope in the amendment phase to fix this, your discussion makes sense, but as far as I've seen from your discussion you don't think in the amendment phase to fix it and then there's no reason to cite any members. If you're saying there's a reason for the amendments, then let me think about whether I'll support the emergency procedure or go to the amendment phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15066	MP Šefik Džaferović applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15067	Mr. Živković, with all due respect and all due respect for your need to replicate to me and respect your right to say what you have to say, please don't tell me what I'm going to say in the context of my discussion. I also have the right to say what I think and I guess there's no need to say that no one in it can prevent me from being represented here either by the Constitution or by the Rules of Procedure. That's it, thank you. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15068	Replica, the first deputy chairman, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15069	To be perfectly clear, we are talking about respect or violation of the Rules of Procedure here. Breaking the Rules of Procedure is every way out of the Rules of Procedure to talk about procedure. If you do not want to support this proposal it is your political position and I understand it, but we do not allow here in this room to violate the Rules of Procedure in the way you do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15070	The word has a letter from Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15071	I thank the chairman. Well, unlike my colleague Belkić, I'm going to say that I'm more inclined to accept an emergency procedure and immediately reject this law, because the concept proposed cannot be corrected in the amendment phase. So, in the amendment phase, we can only change the whole concept, nature, so this. I just want to mention, we've had since the general election of several hints and engagements in terms of amending the Election Law, aware of the need to make some solutions advance, but this solution is not one but ten steps least backwards. And I'm asking all my colleagues and colleagues to think hard when they vote, regardless of political belongings. So I want to mention, focused on the solution, so we're completely moving away from some E from the European standards and engagements that we're referring to, which we're bound to and which we verbally support, etc. And secondly, why and this special appeal to colleagues and colleagues. These solutions change the nature of the highest legislative body in this country. Parliament will deal with conflicts of interest, parliamentarians will be in investigative actions, gathering various evidence, etc., so Parliament will deal with this instead of dealing with legislative activities. I ask you to consider, if we are not satisfied with the way we regulate conflicts of interest and the implementation of existing laws by the Central Election Commission, let us improve it, to change something better, rather than to make proposals for solutions that make us worse, not to speak as timely as possible, and in solutions, in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15072	Thank you. The urgent request also wants to be discussed by MP Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15073	I thank the chairman. 32 Let me first say, I do not know how further discussions will take place today when it comes to this bill, but knowing the Law on conflict of interest, knowing the Law on Securities, on companies, above all taught some negative phenomena, or events from the past, I, Mr. Chairman, and you are witnesses that sometimes some people for a thousand marks, for some extremely small amounts because they were shareholders in some companies in Markovic's system were left without function, punished, etc., by the CEC etc. However, here in this Commission, this Law, so to the Commission on the conflict of interest, I have analysed in the past few days all the countries in the neighborhood, not one in this field explains and does not offer such solutions as they are here. I'd really like to all of the most objective...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15074	kolega Jagodić, I apologize, but we're not talking about solutions right now, we're talking about an emergency procedure request.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15075	...will be today's vote, how, I also want to say just to take care, because basically in Article 20. ...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15076	We'll open up a debate on solutions, now we're talking about an emergency procedure request.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15077	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15078	Thank you. ...the debate on the fourth item of the agenda. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Court of Justice Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) The draft law was adopted in the first reading at the 43rd session of the House, held on 28.02.2013. In accordance with the conclusion of the House, the Constitutional Legal Commission held a public debate on the Proposal for a Law on 27.03.2013 and the deadline for the submission of the report was extended until 17.04.2013. On 17 April 2013, the competent commission again requested an extension of the time limit for the delivery of the report. At 47. The session, held on 18.04.2013, was extended until the next meeting of the House. The competent commission of the Report delivered 21.05.2013. 27 amendments and MPs Šefik Džaferović and Boško Tomić have been adopted to submit one amendment at a plenary stage. 33 I'm opening a debate. But before I gave my word to the honourable MP Džaferović, I intended at the beginning of the session, but at that moment there was no respected colleague Ljubić, so I am now taking the opportunity to thank him for his responsible and successful presidency of the House of Representatives for the past 8 months. The word has the Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15080	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Let me share my discussion in two parts. So in the first part I will speak as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, and in the second part I will speak as a representative, an MP in the House of Representatives concerning this amendment. So the law, with 27 amendments, is supported by the majority of votes by the Constitutional Legal Commission, is in front of the House of Representatives, it is a very serious law. And what I wanted to say as chairman of the Constitutional Commission was to ask the House for an understanding of why we are, and it is seen from the number of amendments that have arrived, twice asked for an extension of the deadline for this Law. The Constitutional Commission has taken this Act seriously, we have opened a public debate and after this public debate, meetings with the working group, which, the expert working group, is an expert working group that has worked with this Act, with all the interested entities and these amendments are the product of these meetings after public debate. As a phenomenon, I want to begin to emphasise the problem of public consultation at an early stage of lawmaking. I would ask the Council of Ministers to pay more attention to the process of consultations at an early stage of the drafting of the texts of the law. It is not enough to publish only on the website of the relevant ministry, active steps must be taken. When the matter comes to parliamentary procedure and when a public debate is opened, then the problem is brought up, then there are known problems that have been dilemmas and then we decide whether we will do as the motionor or how it... repeats in Parliament. It is not right to open all questions during parliamentary proceedings and, let's say, to learn from members of the working group that some of the issues contained in the law were not at all known. And I want this, therefore, with all the thanks to the Ministry of Justice for the serious and responsible relationship to the laws that come from that ministry, to ask them to pay more attention to this issue in the coming period, because the public debate has pointed to this matter. As far as I'm concerned, this is now harmonised, but there's one problem here, and now I'm talking to, which I didn't get along with all the time, I don't agree with, one solution that I think is a problem, which I disagree with, and I don't agree with today, and I didn't agree with the Constitutional Commission either, but most of them have decided the way they decided, and you've got the report that you got. So it's about a situation that can have a precedent, which is related to the issue of BiH's judicial system organisation, and it concerns the familiar situation that we had in practice when judges of the Court of Justice are all parties to proceedings or parties to proceedings, a party to a concrete procedure, in a litigation procedure. The question has been raised who will then judge, and this law, following the Constitutional Court's ruling, has found a solution then to decide on who will be the court in charge, so the Supreme Courts of the Entity and the Brcko District Court of BiH. I don't think this is a good solution, I think there are much better and much happier solutions, such discussions could also be heard in the context of a public debate under this proposal. I think this solution should be deleted from the law and my 34 amendments refer to eradicating this solution, because we have before us a reorganisation of the BiH judiciary, especially this at the state level, a structured dialogue within which it is advocated by the BiH Court of Justice and the BiH Court of Appeal. In that variant, the decision would have to be made by the BiH Court of Appeal for a case like this. What happens tomorrow when we form the Court of Appeal, and we adopt a solution to do so by the supreme courts of the entity? So this is, apart from being reckless, this is a premature solution. And finally, I also said that on the Constitutional Legal Commission, whenever, theoretically, this situation will always be possible, you will always have the highest level court in the country that can come into this situation and there are solutions to such situations. Then the legislator, but only the legislator, with a special norm if it comes to this situation, tells the highest court – will decide your general session on the issue. Because it's not logical and it's not possible for anyone else to make decisions under it. This is an illogical and abnormal solution and I am therefore against this solution. So, I support the full law, I don't just support this solution, I've tabled the amendment and I ask you to accept this amendment so that in the future, we don't bleed, it prejudges anything, that in the future we can spark a normal solution that will be consistent with the system and organisation of the judiciary system in BiH. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15081	Thank you. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15082	I honestly don't have the competence to discuss the essence of this law from a very professional point of view, but I have shown great interest in these changes and additions and attended a public debate so that I have managed to, as our people would say, understand. They are very important reasons and justified, therefore, for the amendments and additions of this Law. In addition to these removals of ambiguity, indiscretions, etc., observed in practice, there is one serious reason, which is therefore the Constitutional Court decision that we do not spend more and more often, but we have managed to collect five of these. I'm sorry, I'm not sure if my claim is true that we don't have a public hearing report. So the report would make it much clearer for people, it was very high-quality, people from the working group attended, from this expert, expert team that did these changes and additions, and they very well explained both the essences of the changes and the intensity, etc., and otherwise it was a very useful debate. The debate also led to this conclusion that the Ministry of Justice, along with the expert group, has prepared these amendments for a public debate. And I hope these 27 amendments are the result of a consultation of the Justice Ministry and this expert group, with me hearing in the public debate that when it comes to Article 6 that the expert group was not engaged in this, but that it was an initiative by our Ministry of Justice. So, as far as I'm concerned, another very serious reason is also the problem in this area I've heard from the BiH Ombudsman that 1/5 of the total complaints, so 637 of them refer to the work of the courts. So, one very serious problem. All that I have said is that I should absolutely support this Law and I am ready of course to support it, by agreeing that 35 of this amendment by Mr Džaferović is necessary and is correct and will depend practically on our relationship with this Law. There's so much and thank you very much. And I'm really sorry if, should we provide practice when we have a public debate that MPs get a report from a public debate that would really help them understand matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15083	Thank you. Dear colleague Boško Tomić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15084	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, the Commission did not have enough understanding that the amendment that I set on behalf of the SNSD Club had been set up, and I therefore propose today to Parliament that it also be declared. We're staying on this amendment that we've given in an explanation. I think this amendment certainly changes the situation significantly in such a way as to delegate jurisdiction from the court to other really competent courts in BiH to the prosecutor's residence. That leaves us with this in order for Parliament to make its statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15085	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and Destroying – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) This bill of law was delivered in the procedure on 15.04. As responsible for his consideration, a Joint Defence and Security Commission has been designated. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on constitutional law on 21/05 and the Commission's competent opinion on the principles also on 21/05.2013. I'm opening a debate. Dear Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15087	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I'm saying is that the Joint Commission for Defence and Security has been considering the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Extermination, and we see that, that the passage was, that 7 votes were by, 2 votes against and 1 vote was abstention. What exactly is this about? In 2006, BiH adopted the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Exploitation, and because of the problems relating to certain errors in the labelling of chemical groups, but also the non-compliance of certain legal provisions with the provisions of the Convention, it was necessary to approach the amendment of this Act. That was the order of the Council of Ministers back in 2009. It is truly unusual what the Council of Ministers has been waiting for from 2009 until today to begin the procedure for amending and supplementing the existing Law. But here, and now after 30.01.2013, when the Council of Ministers adopted the proposal for this law for four months, it was necessary for it to come into parliamentary procedure. So, some things have happened that I can't, there's no explanation. What is the key problem with this law? The problem is that the Council of Ministers has defined the bearers of the activities of amending this Law. Among others, he mentioned all those institutions that have something to say about it, such as the Ministry of Foreign Trade, which is the main institution, then representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Civil Affairs, the Ministry of Security, Defence, Justice, the Ministry of Direct Taxation and the Ministry of Energy and Mines of the Federation and the RS, as well as the Federal Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health and Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia, or the government of Brcko District. In an unexplainable way, those who were the main participants fell out of the part, so the RS Health Ministry and the Federal Ministry of Health turned out to be represented and the view is that the ministries must be represented. So we have adopted the principles of this Law in the hope that in the second reading, the Law will have to be amended in the section relating to both the health ministries and that it will be considerate. I think these have come under conditions to fully implement the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15088	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15089	Well, I'll try not to repeat what the President of the Commission has said, which I agree with in everything that's been said. I just want to add, of course, I will also support this law for a simple reason because it is dealing with mandatory alignment with the Convention and trying to make this law more passing, so to speak, and more applicable. Because obviously, after years of inapplication practically this Law, here is trying to create conditions for it to be effectively applied. What I'm trying to say to this occasion is, let's say, this coordination body as a key body that should have been implemented, thanks to those who decide not to be put into operation. So it can't be said that the people who made the law are guilty, but simply our 37 politics, ours, so to speak, our irresponsibility to the implementation of certain laws has led to a situation that has never been established properly by this coordinating body that is the key mechanism of implementation practically this law. So, I'm the one who answered the most about two things. BiH, when it is signed, Mr. Živković spoke on several occasions, so we must assess how capable we are of accepting international obligations. Once something is signed in a serious democratic world, it is understood that it is being implemented and I think that our reputation in the world through non-execution, is not the only case, we fly, we take over the obligation, we ratify, and then we put it aside somewhere, and it collapses our reputation as a country, and we bring those people who are working on this very unpleasant situation to be insolent in these gatherings, etc., etc. And the other thing I spoke about very often, and here it is clear from the MPs of the RS that the Law will not be passed until certain conditions have been met, but here, let's say, these consultations, for three years, this Law has practically lasted three years. I don't believe that this is the kind of consultation that MPs are talking about, consent, etc., but simply the sloppyness and irresponsibility of those, some referent, some man's assistant in some ministry keeps half a year and doesn't answer, I've heard it from the law processor. So, really, this is really an opportunity, in my opinion, to warn these two things. So the seriousness when we take the obligation and when the procedure, when the procedure involves more, so to speak, the elements, that each of them must react urgently and quickly, not the whole process brake. Because all this later and cost us in life, practical life, there are companies that asked for licenses, etc. who deal with chemicals, and often it happened that they couldn't be satisfied because there's no such thing as this, there's no such thing as that, etc. That's it. I'm sorry. I may have made it a little longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15090	Thank you. Replication or correction of an incorrect quote, distinguished colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15091	Well, the replica part of Mr. Beriz Belkić. If the health departments needed to bring all this together about the Convention, then it was really illogical not to put them on the state co-ordination committee to deal with these affairs. So there are things that the health ministry controls in both entities that are related to the poisons that apply to industry, medicine, other areas, and it really doesn't make sense that one significant institution doesn't put it there. They put the Ministry of Economy in or I don't know who, and they don't put this institution in. It's someone who's made it easy for us to say that it can't, I think it has to be harmonised by everyone. And there is no reason to agree that it has waited so long, I think there are other reasons why this amendment, or the amendment to the Law, has not been so far, because since 2009, by decision of the Council of Ministers 2009 that it is sent for an emergency procedure to be agreed on, just means that we have not applied the Law that we have adopted in 2006 to this day. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15092	Thank you. Replicate response, esteemed counterpart Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15093	I agree, Mrs. Majkić, I was just saying that it doesn't take three years, that I don't know what three years is. All I agree with you, here's that I should have asked no one in this country, but it took three years, I was just talking about it, not mentioning the ministry, not even mentioning any of the participants' consultations, but for three years.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15094	Thank you. Discussion, distinguished colleague Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15095	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. Well, I just want to say that it's really and embarrassing that it's been three years all of this on hold, this is one very important law. And on this occasion, I really want to say that it's pointless, as my colleague Majkić said, not to involve the health ministry here. These questions are very professional and concern really toxicology and all of those negative effects, not only of the human organism, but of the overall toxicological effects of all these chemicals. That's what they're called. Dangerous substances that are dangerous to the human population, as well as anything in the environment. And I think that the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health must really be involved in this coordination body in order to make a real improvement. Of course, this should be seen, this Law, as one of the laws concerning European integration. Every kind of convention like this really brings, as I would say, one plus in terms of European integration, because these are issues that concern everyone. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15096	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15097	Thank you, Chairman. I want to replicate to a respected colleague, Beriz Belkić, that it is a shame that this law has not been passed for 3 years. I accept that it is a shame, but I will remind you that since this last 3 years, your party has been sitting on the Council of Ministers for a year and a half, you have had the opportunity to initiate this question, but it seems only when you left the Council of Ministers and when you were replaced by some other parties and this problem has been solved. Thank you. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15098	Replica, dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15099	So that man may not believe. Do you hear yourself, Mrs. Pandurević, when you speak, do you really hear yourself? I really think you have problems with yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15100	Please, we treat each other with respect. The relationship was to the party, not to the character.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15101	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15102	I don't see any more reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving on, do you?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15103	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15104	Let's just adopt him and start using him. I'm going to re-commit the commission, point out that the commission cares, and I'm in favour of doing it as soon as possible. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Annual report on the results of the activities of the BiH Ombudsman Institution and the Annual Report on the occurrences of discrimination in BiH for 2012 The BiH Ombudsman's human rights institution delivered the report on 08.04. The committee responsible for human rights, children's rights, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics delivered its opinion on 22.05. Reports were adopted and sent to further procedure. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15106	Mr. Chairman. 40 Yesterday, on the Joint Committee on Human Rights, we discussed these reports and they were unanimously adopted. Here's what I'd look back on. This Annual Report on the occurrences of discrimination in BiH in 2012 shows an increased number of human rights violations. What I will warn the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, which is to be called on, as the institution has also called, to Article 8. A law prohibiting discrimination against BiH where the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is obliged to adopt a Regulation on how to collect data on cases of discrimination. It has not been adopted to this day, although here we hope that in due course it will be passed, as well as the Ministry's obligation, of the same ministry, to establish a central database for the acts of discrimination committed. We can even conclude here that the House votes, means that he, that only the fact that the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees respects the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination and applies Article 8. This is what I meant to look back on as well as that moment on respecting the Ombudsman's recommendations to the institutions of government, here we will mention BiH authorities, so that many ombudsmans are not respected. The House should also reach a certain conclusion here to establish parliamentary oversight over the implementation of the Ombudsman's recommendations. Whether in the sense of the Human Rights Commission, the Joint Committee on Human Rights is considering it or making a decision to do so by another commission. Well, that's what I'd just point to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15107	Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15108	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. So, we had this report yesterday, and I'm always in the middle of a dilemma when we have a report from any of our institutions, and it's about the previous year, how meaningful and complete and does it even make sense to talk about these reports, and this one does. I'll state a few reasons and commend the Ombudsman's institution. The report complete, contentable, points to all problems. I will support the exhibition, immediately so that I do not forget my colleagues, Ćemalović, only one thing I will not, do not let Parliament draw any conclusions. Because if we come to the conclusion, there's nothing. A hundred of our conclusions await some realization and no one appreciates it. Now, not downplaying the importance of the Ombudsman, on the contrary, but stressing the importance of praise, they have made countless recommendations, these and those, mainly from working relations, the judicial system, the return of refugees, threatened human rights, but such is the law and such is the system in BiH. Whoever is going to respect the ombudsman's recommendation, let me see who has appeared publicly and voluntarily and says – we have violated the human rights of the NN person in the current procedure, so that human rights violations have been warned by the Ombudsman institution and we are not only sorry that we have violated certain laws, provisions, here we will now respect the recommendation of the Ombudsman. Who's gonna do it? He won't even look at their recommendations. They will not comply with the decisions of the most judicial instance of the Constitutional Court, they will not respect the decisions of the highest legislative body of this Parliament. And I just said a hundred of our conclusions are waiting to be relatified. No one's going to do anything. And then you get this comprehensive report from the Ombudsman, every honor, and I always praise what it's worth, but not 41 follow recommendations, and now, like these people, they're guilty from the institution, and they've made a huge effort and work. What are they to blame? They're nothing. Here, thank you on my behalf, of course I'm telling you, what you do in a report like this where everything can be seen and all the problems of this country, in your report. Who has complained to you and who has not? For you have done all things. But I repeat the key thing – who will honor your recommendation? Don't take this as, God Bog, humiliation, so you know what your obligations are legal and what you can do. So you have no institution, no force to force, so that you may consent to one, that one may obey your recommendation. I'm telling you right now, and you're aware, so who respected your recommendation. Even many, which is the worst of mishap, treats you with humiliation and say, "Whoever they are, let go, what they say, what they recommend, because nothing will cost me unless I respect what they recommend." There's no sanctions. It's a system problem, not a problem for you. So I'm going back to the key question, for you every honor on the report that, here, there's nothing to add and take away, everything here is seen what is done in this country, no matter what not all objects are because it's impossible to cover the objects of a local community and not the state in which it is and what problems it is. So this whole time I've been looking at you is my respect for you who represent that institution and sit there. And now I'm going to look at myself like this and say, "Bog, what kind of state do we live in when no one ever makes a recommendation, which I never give, of course, nor can I give, but this House doesn't respect the conclusion and everyone deafens to it. And now I'm supposed to be here all day telling a story about how I'm some important factor, how I'm some member of the legislature, how I'm supposed to respect the code one or the one, how I'm supposed to take care of this and that. And then I come to the end and I tell myself, and that's the kind of man I am, Bog damn it, that I just answered, that I'm harassing you. If I'm harassing myself, it's common to me, and it doesn't cost me anything, but why doesn't your colleagues? I'm harassing with this when we're all aware that none of this has anything to do with it. Anyway, I suggest that we accept a very correct report, a comprehensive report and ask ourselves, some others, here I will no longer be a politician in the next term, but some others say – what kind of system this is and can it function based on recommendations, and I don't even know what, that nobody respects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15109	Thank you. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15110	Very short. So, with the support and the report and the work of the Institution couple, let me put it this way, some of my thinking. It's good to have very often special reports, which were here we see six, one we'll consider here at today's session. It might be good if there was another report that we received from the Human Rights Commission dealing with this human rights report in law enforcement offices and these sanctions. It may be an opportunity for us to consider that report by our Commission that monitors the work of these, the exercise of human rights in the institutions for the enforcement of criminal sanctions. 42 The key problem that is being repeated year by year, at least by me, is therefore not implementing recommendations. What do you do? I've been thinking, it wouldn't be a bad thing to make a public list of institutions that don't implement the recommendations of the Ombudsman institution, to be made public in the media and to publicize institutions that don't implement recommendations. Because I don't know... there's no sanction prescribed, there's nothing prescribed, so the recommendation is a recommendation, but she came from the institution that this state founded. Therefore, in this direction, public institutions should do that which do not implement recommendations and play, so to speak, on the conscience. I also think it would be good to, when it comes to this department for, which deals with eliminating all forms of discrimination, provide funds. According to what I read in this report, this department had no funds so far, and the question is, we have a part of an institution called the Department of Eliminate all forms of discrimination and we have no marks in the budget for its operation. As this is now funded, and as it has been managed, it has been transferred from item to item, I don't know, but it should be clear and precise for such a structure to provide funds. That too should be taken into account when discussing the budget for 2013 (?) And what, in my opinion, remains here in these documents, that is, in this Annual Report, perhaps in one place some sort of final consideration and any recommendations to institutions, or requests to institutions, etc. That's it, so we're back on this report again.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15111	Thank you. The word has an MP, Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15112	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. So here I join all those who have been discussing in the direction of supporting this report and these reports. I want to tell you my personal experience. I think this institution is doing its job well and doing their job properly. And I spoke to them personally, and I can say that I have a very positive experience in working with this institution, and I think we should support it. What I have fallen for my eye, so when I read these reports, is in this section relating to a report on the occurrences of discrimination between two trends. So, one trend is to have increased discrimination in the area of mobbing and education, and a reduction in discrimination on a national basis and discrimination on Roma. I think that, when and when we have these reports on the agenda, when we consider and discuss all the reports, we should have some active access further, because we are doing this to fix the areas we are discussing. And that is why I am going to suggest today that the Council of Ministers and the Ombudsman Institution make recommendations and a plan to reduce discrimination in these two areas, so in the area of mobbing and education in the coming period. Thank you very much. Once again, we support these reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15113	Thank you. 43 The Word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As much as we have the ambition to be, to draw attention to what is the most important topic involved in BiH's Ombudsman always seems more important to me, and in the end, I decided to focus on what is called an analysis of the complaints received, especially when it comes to complaints coming to the judiciary. So, as we can see in this table 7, injuries per year of adoption, i.e. 2011-2012, are sorted by the Department for the Monitoring of Political and Civil Rights. And we see that the largest number of registered complaints against court proceedings is 637. So the increase compared to 2011. - 623. Management – 381 versus 400 means a reduction compared to 2011. Government and ministerial appointments – 115 versus 119 2011. Police 123 in 2012 versus 117. Prosecution 44 versus 30 in 2011 So, that is, what is significant here is indicated and well indicated for the work of the courts because the trend of citizens' complaints on the work of the courts continues. The most common complaints, as we can see, are related to the length of the court proceedings and the ineffectiveness of the enforcement of court decisions. It's a good argument for us all to imagine, or for once again, to imagine what kind of justice in BiH is at stake. I'm very sorry that this agenda item didn't go after the D.A.'s work information because we might be able to do a progression and, on concrete examples, analyze what's going on in the justice system that we've been talking about for years. So this isn't a newspaper, but it's good for the Ombudsman to say the same thing. So the state has made sure that there is a right to court and trial, but has done nothing to achieve it in a fair time. That is why they will pay countless fines for all those who decide to seek justice and justice elsewhere because they have failed to find it in BiH. We've never been able to make criteria for what a fair trial means. From what should also be pointed out what the Ombudsman is talking about, it is that the Ombudsman institution draws attention to a number of complaints from citizens about the conduct of judges and prosecutors. So, not only do they not do their job right, but they act in such a way and so responsible that they don't care when asked by the Ombudsman they send a type answer that contains nothing. And if this is an example to which the institutions of the judiciary should refer to the Ombudsman institution, then it is indeed inappropriate behavior. Imagine that even a disciplinary prosecutor answers, discusses the complaints and says he has no basis for launching a disciplinary case against judges. We've come a long way. This report also contains many elements that Parliament should deal with. Even at one thematic conference to analyze the situation in many areas. We see that, and we know that the Ombudsman has worked a lot to fix the situation in criminal and correctional institutions, that there is a significant change in the situation, but there are still problems to work on. It is difficult for Parliament to draw conclusions that would allow all of this to be taken into account, but I really think that the Joint Committee on Human Rights has the right and obligation to deal with this report in a way that considers and monitors the fulfillment of the conclusions, i.e. the views of the Ombudsman. 44 So I suggest that, what Mrs Nermina just said, to turn it into a form of conclusion and to be the obligation of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, because if I, as the chairman of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, are considering countless reports that are not coming to the House, but rather an analysis of the situation in the institutions, then I really think that this is the first and biggest task of the Joint Commission on Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15115	Thank you. The word has an MP Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15116	Well, like this, I'll relate to my predecessors. What I'm saying is that the report is really extensive, it contains a series of data that are very important to the citizens of this country, that it's all done in detail. I would just focus a little, just this, here's the previous discussion of Mrs. Majkić when it's said that we, in fact, through this report on the work of the Ombudsman can very well analyze the work of our judiciary. Here, I'll back it up with one example from here in this report, it's about mobbing. In fact, we all know that BiH is indeed a country in transition, that in transition countries there is a mobing as a form of abuse of citizens, that it has indeed taken hold. And here we see that it happens, so the number of applications regarding mobbing, which vertically means that the horizontal mobbing, is increased and that the 81 complaints of the citizens were and related to the mobbing. Now, here he is, of course, this Ombudsman acted in accordance with his powers and so everything was regular. Certain, uh, human rights violations, i.e. discrimination against workers, have been reported. And here, as a result of all that happened in the end. As a result, he says - the ombudsman's application by competent first-degree courts made decisions punishing responsible natural and legal persons with high fines. This is what I'm reading, so just part of it to support what I'm trying to say. In the appeal procedure, the second-degree courts abolished the first-degree verdicts and returned the decision-making procedure for formal but essential shortcomings. Insufficient sensitivity of the judge for the trial in cases of discrimination and especially of mobbing can discourage faith in the effectiveness of the legal medicines available... This is all saying, so here it really is, well written by the people who wrote the report, what it's about. So, it's almost an empty story, or people have made an effort, so they analyzed everything, made applications, etc., but in the end there was none of these applications because the judicial system has certain faults and we really have no mechanism to force the ombudsmen's recommendations to be properly applied. We don't have this mechanism that's our bond, which is the key to how we do it in the state. So, really, here it is, I just wanted to document that the Ombudsman's report has actually confirmed one faltering in BiH's judicial system. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15117	Ambassador Šefik Džaferović also applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15118	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. No matter how hard I try to let this kind of debate go by without me, I still couldn't resist it. I have stood up to support this report, both this year's report and this year's report on the forms of discrimination and to say something that no one has ever said before. Look, I mean, I spoke several times about the position of the Ombudsman in the BiH system, the attitude towards Parliament, Parliament's relations, the Council of Ministers towards the Ombudsman institution, the legal nature of the institution, its position in terms of independence. I remain, therefore, in doing so, and I think that the Ombudsman institution in BiH at the moment is one of the strongest weapons it has in its hands, or the tools it has in its own hands, in fact the public. I, too, ask the Ombudsman, of all three ombudsmen in BiH, to perform more and more frequently on the emerging forms of discrimination and all other irregularities, which they record in the wake of their work, in the BiH state, in each part of it, as often as possible and as often as they inform the public. I think it's one of the most powerful tools that the ombudsmen have, and let's not be discouraged that maybe sometimes there isn't, or maybe often, what's been talked about here, there's no adequate response from the institutions they call. Let them get on with their work. This institution is a new institution in the BiH legal system, it is a Dayton, just before Dejton, so in Washington, the Washington Agreement was created when the Federation of BiH is concerned. Let them keep doing their job. I am convinced that the time will come for those who look lightly at the demands and recommendations of the Ombudsman today to be ashamed of their disrespect for the recommendations of the Ombudsman. That's how I see BiH's development. Bosnia and Herzegovina is trending and moving towards, BiH's trend is actually going that way. I believe it deeply no matter how amazing what I'm saying right now. So I think it's a good recommendation that's been made here, and I think it's very serious and suggested, that our Human Rights Commission takes every segment of this report and treats it. Let it be a foundation for it, and it will be the best support that Parliament has at this point, when it is the essence of the Ombudsman's report in question, which it can do. So, question by question. Here are all the questions, the annual reports, the various forms, the forms of discrimination. And one thing no one has ever said, which is why I've actually decided to get up and talk, so far no one's talked about the material, technical, financial position of the Ombudsman institution. They wrote something here in their report and they shyly wrote it in their report. I think they should have written it much braver, given that their funds were being denied, there's this one sentence that's listed there. I don't think the activities of the Ombudsman Institution need saving. Cheapest for the state when an institution that controls the application of standards in the protection of human rights is that as long as it is necessary for it to be able to do its job successfully and efficiently. And that is why we appeal to all those who create budgets, including us, here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, when we make a decision on that, to lead, therefore, accounts. Because giving the Ombudsmans as much as necessary to do their job is the cheapest thing for this country and all of us living in this country. Thank you. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15119	Ambassador Slavko Jovičić has signed up to correct the incorrectly cited quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15120	It's not very incorrect, all that Mr. Džaferović said is true, but the replica is only on this part. So, here's Mr. Ombudsman, I can't remember exactly if it was before 4, 5 or 6 sessions Mr. Džaferović talks about -- we didn't talk about it. I also asked the Commission and this House of Representatives to make the Ombudsman as public as possible. But the Ombudsman can't go to dinner on any medium and say -- here I want to say that human rights have been violated, I don't know in this segment, this, that, and every night they should be and not, and I never. I don't need to be there at all. This is a replica of Mr. Džaferović's exposure when he is gone, but you will see Tanja Topić on TV BH1 every third night, fifth night, no more and no more. No matter what she says. Well, every passerby has more opportunities to influence me to change my mind than she's going to say. What is she, who is she? But it is important, other representatives of this, those NGOs, are important, and the ombudsmen, spoken of by distinguished counterpart Džaferović, will not be invited by any media. And I know, and I begged them on the Commission, and we talked privately, these are honest people who will always respond to talk about human rights violations. But can I go to any TV when no one calls them, can they show up in the media when no one calls them, and everyone calls me. Now, thank Bog, since I'm playing against the media now they've given up on me, too, but only when they want to come up with an affair - buying an audience, then announce what I didn't say at all. I have no connection to anyone, nor did I say that I would participate in it. So, colleague Džaferović, I agree completely with you, but it is not true that we do not attach importance to the Commission any of the things they point to, we analyze everything. But here, I ask you as an experienced Parliamentarian, you have a report from our Commission, what we will do if they, when I say they are sorry, Mr Ombudsmen, have recommended something, we have concluded on the Commission that they are right, when I 90 percent of these directors of our agencies, who are mostly violating the human rights of these people live, I don't know, I've never seen them, and the second term. So I'm going to ask for pictures to be delivered to me, I can't open websites, and I'm going to watch who's the director of the agency there, and I've never seen those people. They violate human rights, all of you there and employees. And there's going to be the next point I'm going to specifically talk about and not at... because... it's hard to really talk to the report, I'm supposed to have 20 sessions, because he, I said earlier, is complete, comprehensive. What good are we gonna do? Mr. Džaferović, here I am...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15121	Replication time's up, colleague Jovičić. Thank you. Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15122	I would like to say one thing to Mr Džaferović about his discussion, which is that the Ombudsman's Institution's task is to consider cases relating to poor functioning and human rights violations, but also to undertake general investigations. Why is he delivering the report to Parliament? So we know what's going on with the human rights situation. Why would the Ombudsman keep 47 accounts on that himself? Why is it not the obligation of every MP sitting in these benches to have that information and to speak publicly about it? So you say, keep insisting on that, and I say to the Ombudsman, keep insisting on it, but ask Parliament to carry out its obligation, because it is the obligation of every Parliamentarian to fight discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15123	I find that there are no more applications for discussion. Representatives of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution are reporting. Here you go. I'll beg you for a stenogram to specify your name and last name.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15124	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the opportunity to welcome you on behalf of the Ombudsman institution. I came out only for one intervention, related to Mrs Nermina Ćemalović's proposal for a conclusion, and regarding the Regulation on the record of discrimination and the conclusion she proposed. At the time of writing this report, therefore in February, it was such a situation, but today it is not because the ministry has passed the Regulation. I don't see anyone from the ministry intervene, for reasons of correctness to that ministry I went out to say that this Regulation was in place in the meantime and that maybe that conclusion shouldn't be made. That's one thing. Secondly, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank, on behalf of the Institution, for these very correct and useful discussions on these annual reports, and especially on the words of support and even more analysis that you made in your discussions, which required some effort to read these reports and which do not have very few pages. On our part, we will very carefully consider all the conclusions of this Parliament and at the same time try to participate in their realization by proposing what we think would be good for the conclusions to be realized, and I particularly think that the conclusion that will refer to the recommendations of the Ombudsman. So the proposals on holding the thematic session would be very good and in this direction we will suggest and... In the environment and in Europe, a number of proposals are present for the Ombudsman's reports to be discussed in the thematic sessions of parliaments, not in regular sessions. That's why our proposal would be, here's to taking the opportunity to say that, that we might be the first in the environment to organise such a thematic session for the next annual report. The following is what I would like to say, in the report we have raised several questions, phenomena and problems relating to the financing of this institution. And I wouldn't be talking about it right now, but I would suggest one conclusion, if possible, and that's to get in touch with and hold a meeting with this House's Finance Commission, as well as the House of Peoples, and to give them very broadly all the phenomena and problems that we have, so that this Commission will consider this Parliament too, possibly with some proposals of some measures. We are also sharing the finding that is finally said here, which is that for the realisation of the human rights of BiH citizens, the ombudsmans are not responsible, but the authorities of 48 authorities are responsible, and Parliament is guaranteed to exercise these rights according to the Constitution. That's why we all have to stick to it together. Thank you for your attention. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15125	I thank the esteemed Ombudsman for human rights, Mr. Ljubomir Sandić. And I remind you that according to the Rules of Procedure, we only have the opportunity to call regular sessions, which doesn't mean that in the next period we can't change the Rules of Procedure. She applied for the replica, if I see correctly, MP Nermin Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15126	Well, that would be more like a gentleman's explanation and a correction of my conclusion, because the report did say that this Regulation was not adopted on how to collect data, and here I am now informed that it was done at the end of April. So if it's not a problem, I'll go with the conclusion, I'll just correct it in this sense and it'll go like this – the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is in charge of establishing a central database for the acts of discrimination committed, and as prescribed in Article 8. Law prohibiting discrimination against BiH. Mr. Chairman, am I supposed to write it again now or is this enough?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15127	You should.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15128	Here, I'll write it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15129	Thank you. I find that there are no more reported within the seventh item of the agenda. We're going to the eighth point, Ad. 8. Human Rights Institution's special report on the appeal of former Republika Srpska Customs Administration of the Republic of Serbia and Customs Service of the Brcko District of BiH in August 2010 The Joint Commission delivered its opinion on 22.05.2013, the report was adopted. You've all been delivered, and in conclusion, there's no need for me to read it. I'm opening a debate on the eighth item of the agenda. Ambassador Slavko Jovičić signed up for the discussion. Here you go. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15131	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So here, this is a concrete example that you can talk about in relation to the one that was all-inclusive and it was hard to isolate which segments. And what I just forgot, and it's important for this, the Human Rights Commission is really paying maximum attention to all these issues that come from the Commission's competence. What I forgot to stress is that the Human Rights Commission calls on all relevant representatives of the institutions, only the Ombudsmans respond, so they don't send a representative of one, but all three of them are coming. Every session is almost attended by all three. Is there another commission that works like that? I don't think so, and I attend a lot and I'm a member of some other committee, no, or they send an outside associate, or I don't know who, but that's another thing. And here's a concrete example. So the chairman board does the best she can. They're calling these damaged workers who've been complaining. We get the ombudsman's report, we get their references. Now comes the biggest problem. They send us from the Department of Direct Taxation of a woman who understands herself in law, who does not represent her institution in court. This is all a matter of the court, because they are represented by BiH's Attorney General. So they can't appear there at all, nor as accused, they're never, of course, damaged, because they're damaging others. And now they send us this lady who understands perfectly, I say, right and now she's explaining to us, as if I'm in court and court, what was that supposed to do there? And when I ask a direct question as on the commission – so, ma'am, were you ever there, says we can't go there, others represent us. So who are you representing here, what are you harassing me with the report and you weren't there? Now that's the system and chain of all those. Eh, back to a specific case of these people. So, in the last term, I don't know if it was the first or second year, I've been approached individually by these people, I guess they thought I could help them. And now you have a situation, because we can't write it all in the Commission's report, but here you know, one of these damaged workers complains, goes to court, the law enforcement lesson doesn't say that the IRS has violated his human rights and has to get him back to work, the other says that, in the third, he doesn't need anything, lawyers don't, of course, are interested in these cases because there's least money here, these damaged people don't have to pay, they don't have the ability to pay any court costs, they don't have to file a complaint, let alone a lawyer. And now these people are either in heaven or on earth, damaged, and they're right, we saw from their statements. And as far as I'm aware of the law and those court decisions, they fired for no reason, and the other by system, I almost said the key in my hands, but the nephew in my hand and the cousin in my hand and put him there, and you fired these guys, you're not gonna answer a damn thing. And that's where we come up with a showdown that, first I smile at myself, and then I can't laugh because I'm sorry about those people fighting for their human rights, and then I see honest recommendations from the Ombudsman, and what I just said, which no one will respect. He has just sent that the BiH Court of Justice will respect their recommendation and that human rights have been violated, and that human rights violations are correct by the verdict of these people. What was only worth it here? Any time, not compared to these people where she damaged management, I don't know, customs, so they made a unique later organization because they were entityal, so they did, so they should be saying that by morning, but not to burden you, unity. A similar organization, in which I, well thank Bog, let me lose the dispute because the others were constantly lying there, but I didn't matter, I made another verdict to pay everyone back. It's an intelligence security agency that fired what would be said in the language of the people... and these people get a verdict in their favor. And these people who are absolutely right can't get it, because that's exactly what the court did. One told the lesson about the legal remedy, you can make a complaint, you can go back to work, the other didn't say anything, the third one was about to write free you complained and you'll never come back, they fired you stronger than you, etc., etc. So what do we do with these people now? Because they say yesterday, and they say a long time ago, they're going to complain in Strasbourg. I'm sick of people more of Strazbur. I've had enough of both local court and cantonal, both entity and BiH court. So give the people to bring something in favor of these people, tell them once you're wrong, you're fired because you've committed some offence, and they're not fired for committing a violation, no, but they're fired for maybe standing up to some director, deputy, assistant who had power, taking advantage of that possibility, and some legal void, dissipated them, received them, I said just before whom all, and how, cousins, nephews, amids, Bog more ask who he hired there. And now these people, here for 7 or 8 years, have been waiting for their human rights to be returned to them by MP Jovičić in Parliament. What can I do? I can stand up as I stand for these people. And you're all going to support this, but who's going to make up for what they haven't been doing for 7-8 years, who's going to say whether or not they're right at all, when we don't know yet, here on the basis of the judgments, some, based on those others are, based on yesterday's oral hearing, are, based on the support of the Human Rights Commission, yes. And we've given some reasonable time again to make this more potent and to put an end to this story and not to do this anymore, not to Strasbourg, but to New Travnik, or to my Palace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15132	Thank you. The word has been sent and chaired by the Joint Committee on Human Rights, Aleksandsra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15133	Thank you, Chairman. Well, first of all, I would ask all my colleagues to support the Commission's position on human rights and this conclusion. I think it's our responsibility here and we're... the last address these people could come to. It's not just about the fate of people who, here for 8 years, are on the street, but it's about whether this is the last institution that has the power to say, yes, there's a very serious crime here. There has been a very serious crime here in these competitions, because it is truly unthinkable that in the judgments of these people, when internal competitions were made, and the Court of BiH in judgments states that people who do not meet the basic conditions of the competition have been admitted to those jobs. And then the Direct Taxation Authority has been doing nothing for years, the court expects them to repeat the competition, and has already put out of force solutions to the termination of employment. The administration of indirect taxation doesn't care, it doesn't cancel the competition, it's still sitting there because there were probably gods, neighbors, friends, party colleagues, etc. When it is launched in 2012, it requires the execution of a solution, the judicial verdicts are obtained to execute the solution, and then the court, watch out as far as it goes, this shows what our judicial system is, then the court does the review, although the audit is provided for only in cases whose 51 value is greater than 10,000 marks and here was the value of 1,000 marks. So, the court just wanted to protect someone's crime at the Department of Direct Taxation because someone didn't respect court decisions and deal with criminal corruption and amnesty. As we heard yesterday from these workers these days, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection has called as witnesses to give their statements on all this. I will finish here and I will say, given that today's SNSD proposal is to include a new point of the agenda and to adopt a conclusion on the establishment of an investigative commission to investigate any irregularities and abuses and the situation in the Directorate for Direct Taxation, I will have one small addition here to this conclusion in order to make this commission, I hope that it will have Parliament's support, when it forms a little bit of an issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15134	The word has an MP, Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Oh, I was just offered what the MP, Miss Pandurević, was saying. Unacceptable things are that people turn to the largest legislative institution to discuss a little bit here, to accept what the Ombudsman has done, and to about, I don't know how much it will be in public and how much it will be heard, it will end up, and these unsecured 46, how many there are, people. They've been out of work for years, not feeding their family, they can't support their family, and they've been put in a very difficult position. If it were an institution that takes care of everything, so according to the systematization of jobs, by the appropriate qualifications of receiving those people to work, I'd say it's a renewal with a more educated, with more educated people, with people who have experience, I'd accept it. But from that institution, especially in that period, which is not the case that we're looking today for the formation of an Ad hoc commission that will examine their work, probably when they're through all of these jobs that they've been doing, and that's what I'm talking about, I can't now argue that there are certain suspicious and illegal actions, then this is also suspected that these people are still illegally disproved and left out of work. I personally think that our conclusion today, I don't know if it's enough of the commission to say that here, you see here you don't respect court decisions, here the Ombudsman for Human Rights points out and insists on it, but it doesn't seem to oblige people. And you can see that the names of those proposings who do not implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court or of some other courts are being sought there from us, prosecutors are among the first to find the names of these people and those responsible to initiate proceedings against MPs where no such case has been recorded in the world yet. This is why I am today asking that there may be a more energetic conclusion and that this case may be in the context of some of the activities that will be under review. Because it's unacceptable for people to refuse us in such a way that they don't want to argue with us at all, to get from them, perhaps one of the conclusions, that we get an opinion from them why these people aren't either overqualified, or educated, or I don't know, accepted. But here's what Aleksandra says, I can't believe that 52 people who have lower qualifications or are more incompetent in these jobs are received in those places. Therefore, I am surprised, and I expect that perhaps our conclusion may be stronger than you as president, perhaps to rephrase that we are asking that this and the Administration, this new one that probably has nothing to do with the former one, inform Parliament of what she planned to do with the implementation of decisions and what she planned to do with these people in order to at least in a certain way restore their dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15136	Thank you. I find that there are no more requests for debate within the eighth item of the agenda, when it comes to MPs. Do any of the ombudsmen want to talk? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate on the eighth item of the agenda. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2012 The information was delivered on 15.04.2013. The relevant Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on the Information on 21/05/2013. Information has been received. I'm opening a debate on this information. A letter from Dušanka Majkić applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15138	The Honorable Chairman. I would first like to hear from you whether a representative, i.e. the BiH chief prosecutor, is present at this session. I was, if I could tell that the chief prosecutor wasn't here. I don't know if the deputies are present, but I find this very serious report and especially this report with these results of the prosecution's work, we shouldn't consider it without the chief prosecutor's presence, so before it comes to a new man at the head of the prosecution. And certainly because of very bad relations and due to almost no co-operation and communication on the relation of the Parliamentary Assembly – the Prosecutor's Office please remove this point until the chief prosecutor comes to attend this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15139	So at this point, I can inform my fellow MPs that we have sent all the memos, including a letter to the BiH chief prosecutor, to attend today's session. As MPs, we can decide to work without the Attorney General, but we can also put you on the vote and your proposal to postpone the debate and call again the Attorney General to address 53 here at the House of Representatives. If I understand you correctly, then let's put that proposal to the vote. Thank you. The word has more MP Slavko Jovičić before, but Mr. Jovičić, if we adopt this conclusion that you too will wait.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15140	I just wanted to support what my colleague Majkić said. And you know what, just one more thing, I mean as an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15141	That we won't water down and open a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15142	We're not going to get a divorce. Why would the chief prosecutor come if he wasn't elected by Parliament? That's what makes sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15143	Thank you. If we don't open the debate now, there's gonna be a chance. [[Common discussion]] Please, colleagues, so we have a proposal to Dušanka this item of the agenda for the next session and call once again on the Attorney General to come here. Please approach the vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives has accepted this conclusion, that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that this point is prolonged for discussion, so at the next session of the House of Representatives. We're now moving to the 10th item of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's memos (in line with the conclusion of the Joint College of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly's 19th session held on 16 April 2013)
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15146	Thank you very much. I'm glad you said in the introduction that you sent the invitation to all the justice institutions that should be present today to discuss this, I'm calling it already, I'm happening, but it's also devastating that today, here I see that the Attorney General is here, I don't see anyone else, if we have representatives, in fact you should have said that, and I'm glad, I'm really glad. So, we won't be resented for not recognising... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The D.A. means. So they're not representatives of the Constitutional Court. _________(?) [[/not a microphone//]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15150	Thank you. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15151	In my opinion, it all starts, that is, the problem is that we are practically used to and introduced, so to speak, one kind of practice in non-execution of decisions of the Constitutional Court which have already accumulated 4-5. I have repeatedly suggested here, understanding why it is so, to make a kind of standard, a kind of principle, when it comes to implementing decisions, to strictly and exclusively stick to the content of those decisions, not to spread the event. Because in each of these cases, any of the political parties or options, etc., had the Constitutional Court's decision as an opportunity to try some things, and some of its objectives, or some of its political options, to try to install with the implementation of that decision. So here I am not amnesting anyone, less all of these political parties have done, including mine. Unfortunately, we haven't reached an agreement. When it comes to a particular situation, to be honest, and to me it's a little bit, not a little bit but a surprise to the content of this correspondence and requests, etc., perhaps I don't even understand as an irregular, so to speak, I don't understand models, ways, procedures, etc., but for me it was quite surprising. However, I believe, as regards the correspondence itself, the content, the tones, etc., should be taken from the fact that the correspondence was made on the basis of a request from the Prosecutor's Office by the Constitutional Court, and on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision on the non-execution of decisions. Now, about the tone itself, and the content, and the requirements etc., I think we should ask the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to assess whether it has come out of the usual process of obtaining certain data, etc., or whether the rights of MPs have been compromised, or whether this can be defined as one type of pressure. So here's the conclusion, I still believe that we here in Parliament have to solve the problem of implementing these decisions and thus remove ourselves, so to speak, because we have produced a series and other consequences by non-execution, which are much more possibly and more difficult, by failing to execute decisions, starting with a single birth number, Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci, though Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci is not, but here he is also the decision of another court, international etc. So a number of other consequences that certainly harm the citizens of this country. And this, I say, second thing, that on the content and tone of this correspondence, I think that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council should give an opinion on whether it came out of the usual procedures and whether the MPs, i.e. the BiH Parliament, are in this way under some kind of pressure, etc. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15152	There's a word, second vice president, Dr. Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15153	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, Mrs Galić, president of the Constitutional Court, representatives of the prosecution. 57 I ask my colleagues and colleagues not to mind Mrs Galić for presenting herself so shyly, therefore, because it is a Croatian Hrvatica, so given our position here in the state, constitutionally, it should not be surprising. But she's been here since the beginning of this point. So, of course, we can only conclude that the decisions of the Constitutional Court have not been implemented. However, before we say anything self-critical about any of the institutions that have been, as I say, responsible in this chain for implementing these decisions, we should ask ourselves whether this framework, which we have been forced into as a crazy shirt, as the High Representative has said, enables us to make laws effectively and effectively and implement laws. Because the record of the work of this Parliament and of the correspondence, which the College had on behalf of Parliament with the Prosecutor's Office, has clearly shown the determination of this institution, and not only of this institution but of the Council of Ministers, to implement these decisions. However, they have not been implemented for some others, so to speak, the much deeper reasons that this country is burdening and ultimately making it dysfunctional and unable to meet, here is the decision of the Constitutional Court and the reforms that we need, and for our own sakes and for our journey towards Euro-Atlantic integration. Because in fact, what I've already seemed to have been told once from this pay phone, almost every other law, whether it's a single number law, whether it's a law on the management of temporary property taken from the Court of BiH, here in BiH, and in this Parliament too, it's the essential issues that have not been resolved in BiH, from the Kutiler's plan, which has not been resolved by the war either Vašington or Dojton, or all of its additional audits. Therefore, the question is how much of the framework is actually responsible and how much of the other institutions and puts us in a position that we are unable to bring what we would like to bring, because here they were in this Parliament, and it is known, and the proposals of the Council of Ministers, and the proposals of the MPs, and there has been a debate, and they have not been adopted. However, what we cannot accept, in any case, as representatives, is the tone and contents of the prosecution's correspondence to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which means the institution which is authorised to pass both the laws and the constitution. And in any case, it's inappropriate... the authorities, the executive, the court and the legislative. And I will read it here again, and let the prosecution's representatives hear well what was written in a letter to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It's not a long quote, so I'll read it. "In view of the above, it is necessary to provide information on who was part of the Joint College of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly, who remained present at that session of 14.05.2012, in which function or duty, to submit the minutes of the 12th session, of 14.5.2012, and of the acts which the Council of Ministers is tasked with proposing an adequate solution with the aim of implementing decisions of the Constitutional Court, as stated in the Constitutional Court's decision of 16.01.2013, as well as an explanation of what is meant by the term, under quotes, an adequate solution, and any documentation relating to what you have, in brackets, certified photocopy, and possibly further correspondence with the Council of Ministers, in relation to the above. It is also necessary to provide information on who made the BiH Parliamentary Assembly between 08/08/11 and 0802/2012 and then, that is, the current situation, and it is necessary to do so as soon as possible." What's going on with this? Actually, someone's running an investigation. Can it be led before the immunity is lifted, is there really freedom of speech and political action in this House? So the question is, who's responsible? Those who voted against, against those who had a different opinion and a political stance from what would lead, under quotes, to the implementation of the decision. And they're asking in this case a number of other questions. Is the work of MPs in Parliament about freedom of opinion and expression? In other words, does voting against a proposal mean criminal responsibility? Is this sanctioning political action? And finally, is this about the conflict between the judicial and the legislative authorities? Therefore, I absolutely think that there is room for this proposal, which my colleague, Beriz Belkić, has said, that these matters are being dealt with by both the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, and, here I am using here and the presence of the President of the Constitutional Court, of course we do not expect, at least I do not expect it to be declared, so on this, to say the correspondence between the Prosecutor's Office and the Court, but in any case as authorised applicants, there may be a need for you to officially stand by the Constitutional Court for this matter. But anyway, I don't think this Parliament can just go over this right now... because it is a precedent and in the work around Parliament, and as far as I know, of course, about world democratic practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15154	Replica was registered by MP Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15155	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College. I really had the need to react in one way to the beginning of Mr. Ljubić's discussion regarding modest representation, it seems to me that it is said, the President of the Constitutional Court in the context of, of course, her ethnic and national belongings. I want to mention, who wants to know, knows who the President of the Constitutional Court is. Secondly, the President and the Constitutional Court and other governing people in institutions such as the Constitutional Court should be respected by his or her abilities. And here, I want to express my satisfaction that the President of the Constitutional Court and women is one thing, and the other here I want to mention, apropo alluding at the beginning of your discussion, to express the satisfaction that she is a Hrvatica. Although I don't speak primarily in a dictionary like that, I'm going to use the dictionary that you used to speak. So we have a Hrvatica at the head of the BiH Constitutional Court, and here's what pleases me. I know you didn't have bad intentions, but even more so, I guess they were really in the function of well-being, here's to not detailing, but I ask you to take care of the consequences that these good intentions can sometimes, by means of expression, cause and reactions that can cause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15156	Thank you. Replica, Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15157	Well, so this one of mine, so the intervention really concerned one remark from my colleague Majkić, whom I didn't take at all as, so to speak, a malicious remark, but let me, colleague Hadžiahmetović, that we and the national issue have a different view. Because you're coming 59 from a multiethnic party that, I say, is vaccinated by that national. I'm still representing a national party, so, uh, let me have a different opinion on these things, I think. But I deeply appreciate Mrs. Galić, I know her much longer than you do, and surely her role in the Constitutional Court is, as I say, significant and there at all now I would not treat her sexually, genderly, or nationally, in fact, she deserves to be at the head of that institution there. So, I think the replica was unnecessary, given the tone that was said.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15158	The word has the first deputy chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15159	I thank the chairman. Comrades and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests. I want to say hello, I think this is for the first time that it is from the Constitutional Court, this time and the President of the Constitutional Court here with us, to discuss or try to talk about topics which daily or often MPs, to say, do not have the opportunity to talk directly to the members of the Constitutional Court and to discuss. You know that several times we have also had letters to you that it is inadmissible in our opinion or, in my opinion, that the Constitutional Court is working according to the Constitution which is not even translated into the official languages of BiH, but that the electronic version of the OHR is being used, that the Constitutional Court has adopted a certain regulation on the work which, in my opinion, you have also received my appeal, coming out of the very Constitution of this country. That the Constitutional Court doesn't work according to any law. I think we need to pass the Constitutional Court Act where the issue of selecting international judges who are in the Constitutional Court, and a lot of those other things we wanted to talk to you about and share our opinions here. I also thank you for the answer you sent me and for my question – how many decisions of the Constitutional Court that have not been carried out? And here, at that very step, I have found that the memos I received from you and the memos I received from the prosecution, I also thank the representatives of the Prosecutor's Office that are here, however, the item of the agenda that we downloaded and preceded this one, realize that we were expecting the attorney general to come here, and we will discuss this at the next session with him, not saying that you can't give proper information, but I think it's time that after two sessions, here's the third, the prosecutor finds time to answer the main questions here in front of the MPs. We have a lot of questions for him. So the answer to my question is at the first point, which you delivered, it doesn't add up, you know. Your first point is the Constitutional Court decision AP-129, and prosecutors, i.e. the Prosecutor's Office, and from the Constitutional Court of BiH is a practical appeal of 129. And there's a lot more to the prosecution than the Constitutional Court has delivered non-execution, but here today we have opened a agenda in which we are not clear first – what happens to the decisions of the Constitutional Court when they are not executed? Secondly, what is the communication between the institutions, individuals or those responsible for not implementing those decisions, and is the usual conversation that we in Parliament have received from the competent or competent prosecutor acting on the case with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly? I think I also have these numbers here, U-3/11 and U-4/11, is that the usual 60 conversations? I also asked around the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly, and he provided me with the conversation he had. She is nowhere near what she did, the prosecutor to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Why is it so and is it common practice? I expect that you will give us a written answer to the conclusion I propose, which is – that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is asking the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to establish in writing according to the correspondence it has led, that is, that is to say, the Prosecutor's Office of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and not to implement the Constitutional Court's decision in cases which I have already stated, that is to say whether it is a practice of the Prosecutor's Office. If that's the D.A.'s practice, we'll take the next step. If it's just an act of one of the prosecutors, let's see what the High Court and Prosecutorial Council will do about such an act by that prosecutor. And we need to determine whether it is the institution's relationship to the institution or whether it is a private relationship of one, to quote, the frustrated prosecutor, under quotes, to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, for a reason, not to mention, which she did not pass as an Ombudsman here in a vote by the BiH Parliament. Why don't you say it here? Are there cases that people are waging a private war against institutions because they have not been promoted to a particular function? Could that happen in this country, too, if someone took the tools and abused the place where, in order to use private war, they would deal with an institution. Please, I'm now asking the D.A. to say, is that the correspondence that you're using with the authorities or is that a private way of communicating with a prosecutor? And from the Constitutional Court to propose – what are the measures this Parliament can do to ensure that decisions of the Constitutional Court are respected, not that individuals and institutions are called here not to comment on the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but that they can freely violate them because they have no sanctions on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15160	The word has an MP, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15161	Thank you. Well, about this part, Mr. Živković helped me out here, I wanted to ask if the Constitutional Court decisions have a period of time? Maybe sometimes a deadline comes out or they don't have it, I don't know. And one thing I'd like to say here, about the debate on this subject, is that these are obviously relapses or remnants of totalitarian regimes transferred today to our democracy, and I think we should think very well about doing it, making a law on lustration. So it's obvious that we have remains transferred from totalitarian regimes when, in my opinion, it's an institution like this. So, perhaps it would be good, I repeat, if we were to task the Council of Ministers or here, a note to the Council of Ministers to make one law on lustration, so that surely these questions, which Mr Božo Ljubić spoke of, would probably be better resolved because people, if people who were at the top of the communist party, the marriages and the hairs and the KOS and moved on to this system and continued to work on the same path, would obviously continue this agony of BiH and the return in the vicious circle. That's it, thank you. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15162	The word is from Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15163	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I'd like to say a few words about these court decisions. Someone here said about commenting on court decisions. I would ask you to know that in continental law it is allowed to comment on court decisions, in Anglo-Saxon law it is not. So, as far as we're concerned, we're a classical continental area, where court decisions are allowed to be commented. The BiH Constitutional Court plays a specific role. He functions as Constitutional and Supreme Court. So he's got a double role. Its competences are tax-listed, therefore listed. Now, what's the problem with the Constitutional Court? The problem is he's using Anglo-Saxon law and continental law. That's a problem for us too, and that's the problem right here in the Assembly right now. What's the matter? There is even no provision in the BiH Constitution that the Constitutional Court is competent to control the legality, constitutionality and legality of BiH law. However, the Constitutional Court took it as a right, expanded probably, I did not read the internal rules, these rules predicted it to do so. The question arises, is this deliberately omitted so as not to give control to the Constitutional Court of Parliament (?), but in one unfortunate way or it was omak-missed to be put into the BiH Constitution. The first question is raised, and this is a very sensitive question, that the Constitutional Court has decided in this regard to make decisions without having a basis in the Constitution. You wrote it yourself out there. I looked at the Constitution last night and I saw that the Constitutional Court was not in charge of assessing the legality and constitutionality of BiH law. Yes, he's in charge of conflicts within the organs, but this isn't an organ conflict. So what's the problem now? The problem is I mean this law, which someone said, that the Constitutional Court did not pass the law of procedure. The procedure is very important. One, material law, procedural, procedural law. Therefore, that the Constitutional Court has committed itself as the UN tribunal, to establish its own rules of conduct, namely the procedure, not to be established by this Assembly. It's the right of this congregation, it's absolutely the right thing to do. The Constitutional Court cannot regulate temporary measures with internal rules. You know what the rules of the team can do. This isn't the Hague tribunal to use Anglo-Saxon law so that I'm sorting out my own rules. This is continental law, here is the basic principle of legality, the principle of legality, not legitimacy. There is a fundamental difference between Anglo-Saxon law and continental law. Not just precedents, etc., general acts, but that's the essence of the difference. So, legitimacy and legality. Because there's a basic principle of legitimacy, and here's legality. A legal act, a written act, is seen here, written law, not to determine the circumstances and on the basis of these circumstances, whether it is entirely necessary to bring such and such acts. So it's not allowed here. This is continental law. So this is, these decisions are an expression of the failure of the legal system in BiH, so the existing two legal systems of continental and Anglo-Saxon. Of course, there can also be the influence of foreigners, or foreign judges who have dominated, whose opinions have dominated long, both at the Court of BiH and at the Constitutional Court, etc., we know that. I've had opportunities because I've been involved in some procedures, where actually looking from the point of view of the basic principles of continental law, you get a decision quite different. But okay, let's let it go now. 62 E is now asking me a question. Although there may be one tendency present in BiH, which I am personally afraid of, which is sudocratier. And it's not a space for that, it's not a space at all applicable to such tendencies. It used to be in America, but it was, and so on. Now, I'm asking a question here, which is very important – is the Constitutional Court in charge? Therefore, it is known that his decisions are final and binding, so final and binding. Did he provide for his internal acts to impose the obligation to adopt general acts on entities whose acts are disputed, i.e. whose provisions of the acts have been contested or the Court itself has allowed itself to say, you are obliged to bring them into line until then and then. Well, there's been a catastrophic mistake. In particular, when it comes to the Assembly, the Court cannot impose on the Assembly, it shall set a deadline for it to be harmonised. The court is obliged to say an illegal, or unconstitutional provision and healthy. Niko one can force the Assembly to bring something, because you see what a vote can be. Who could have ordered Švajcarska for four years to discuss a member of the law on citizenship? And there's a Constitutional Court there, what happened? I think that's the problem. And not to repeat those things that Mr. Ljubić said, I think this is one thing, whether you should refrain from this prosecution and look at the circumstances a little bit or expand your mind's potential in terms of considering specific circumstances, I think you should have waited a little while to see, because these are very sensitive things. Not according to Parliament, which is the only one, if one is sovereign, the only sovereign, all are limited sovereign, but Parliament is the one represented by the people and he is the one who is a drop in democratic systems, to initiate such a procedure. So, you have to bring... Who's gonna make me vote anyway? Well, that's my fundamental, democratic right to vote whether I vote yes or no. And the expression of the disrepute of certain people dealing with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15164	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15165	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. We've heard a lot of things here today. Let me start with this first protocol thing. I would ask you from the College for the seats to be chaired by the President of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Court of BiH, the prosecutor, to take care and thus best respond to the silent announcement of the President of the Constitutional Court from a bench that is not suitable for the function it performs. So let the protocol be put there immediately, with members of the presidency and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the President of the Constitutional Court, the President of the BiH Court, the state prosecutor, at least where members of the presidency and ministers are. And then there won't be any need to comment on why, and we justify it with ethnic reasons, the President of the Constitutional Court from an inappropriate place. So that's one thing. The other thing I want to talk about, I'd ask you not to replace the thesis. So here is a key problem not to execute decisions of the Constitutional Court. The position of the Constitutional Court is prescribed by the Constitution. Our Constitutional Court has the constitutional right to prescribe its procedures and that is 63 positions that we, or the Dayton Peace Agreement, have given it, and that is the position so-called. independent constitutional courts. There are such constitutional courts in the world, and so it will be in BiH, because for a reason it is so written and so prescribed, that I am now not entering a detailed analysis of why it is so. We have passed a Criminal Law in which we have said that certain activities, as defined by the conduct of the crime itself, are a criminal offence in the BiH Criminal Law for the failure of the Constitutional Court's verdict. I can't do it right now, I tried to get in here, I can't take the BiH Criminal Law, I can't go in, I can read the crime scene, but it seems to me that it says there that whoever refuses to execute the Constitutional Court's verdict or I don't know what the execution operation is, and more and more, and then it's going to be punished like that. Therefore, certain actions in connection with the non-execution of the Constitutional Court are a criminal offence. And we're at that stage now, is there a few verdicts that we haven't carried out, and they've been informed of who should be in charge of a case of suspicion of a crime. And that we have received some memos, let the memos be analysed, let it be seen whether there is an inappropriate letter to Parliament, members of Parliament, or no language. Do not let us influence and pressure our actions and our conclusions on people who should do their job within the Prosecutor's Office and within the BiH Court. Let every one who has met the conditions of the BiH Criminal Law, especially when it is a criminal offence and, in general, for this non-execution, should be our position. We need to implement the verdicts and that's the point. There are various kinds of judgments, now that we are talking, the Constitutional Court, those that can be easily implemented and where the naked eye is visible where the problem is and those which are complicated content and where it is not possible to see where the problem is or where it requires a certain analysis. If the Constitutional Court says - it is an unconstitutional member and you put it out of force, then we need to get a proposal or we in Parliament pass a law on amendments and additions, where we will just put it out of force and there is implementation. But if, in addition, the national language says, in this law loads the mass of other issues with the issue, which has no consent, and therefore the verdict is not implemented, that is, the problem of those who are doing, I would say, adding to the issue that we need to address something that is not agreed on in BiH. And please, let the Council of Ministers do its job, let Parliament do its job, let the Prosecutor's Office do its job, let the Court do its job, let the Constitutional Court of BiH do its job. Everyone knows what his job is and everyone's responsible for what they're gonna do or won't do. Therefore, I talked about this last time, and I still haven't seen that letter that the handling prosecutor referred to Parliament. I don't want to defend anyone at all, but there's no prosecutor's decision yet, we don't know why someone's looking for information, there's no such thing as that. When that decision comes, we'll see. I am in my position, and last time I spoke about all the members of Parliament, about what I say here and what I raise my hand for, I am not afraid, not because I am protected by immunity, and we all have that kind of protection, but because I think I'm right. So if that's the case then please let it be done... We have unimplemented judgments of the Constitutional Court, and instead of talking today about how we're going to solve the Code of Origin, Amendments and Supplements of the Law and implement the verdict, we're discussing how the Prosecutor is acting and we're asking the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to question our prosecutors. It's a replacement thesis, I can't accept it no matter how much my discussion seemed acceptable or unacceptable to you, it's something that, I got up here to say it publicly. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15166	Replica, Milorad Živković. Here you go. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15167	We've heard a lot of things in the last five minutes. So nothing else was done than it was done in continuity and when you were a member of the College where the guests sat. Yours, your suggestion and your suggestion that members of the Constitutional Court and the Prosecutor get their seat in this room is welcome, but the objection does not stand because even when you were chairman they were sitting in the same place. The other thing is, if you didn't get the materials and you had no idea what they were talking about, about the D.A., it's not true because those materials are in front of you, I don't know why you couldn't open them up and read them, and you don't say these materials don't exist here. So it's a needless discussion. And thirdly, most importantly, we are here talking about the accession of the Constitutional Court's decisions to the institutions. I ask – what happened to the non-execution of the Constitutional Court's decisions of 28.01.2005, concluded with us as an institution that has not implemented the Constitutional Court's decision and did the BiH Prosecution of All, no matter who, since 2005 to date, have had the same treatment? I don't want them to put us in a privileged position, I don't want us to, or be afraid to say anything here, you know that well, we just want to say whether we have the same position as all the institutions or obviously someone here treats the Parliamentary Assembly differently than the others. We have a right to know that, and this is the agenda point. Today is not the point of the agenda. The mother numbers today could be gentlemen of any MPs like the law proposed, why wasn't that done? What are we talking about here? The opposition. What opposition? And the opposition, as an MP, has the right to propose the Code of Origin Numbers and to discuss it here again. Here we are now discussing the prosecution's memos to the Parliamentary Assembly and seeing if this applies only to us in this way or to everyone in this country. So give me a minute, if you want to defend someone, choose an argument, don't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15168	Replica, MP Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15169	I have to, I can't stay silent on these findings of Mr. Džaferović. I mean, this isn't about, this isn't about failure to execute court decisions, so this isn't about this, it's a fundamental question. Who doesn't want to execute a court ruling? This Parliament has the will to execute a judicial decision, but it cannot, objective circumstances are such. So the fundamental democratic principles prevent the implementation of this decision. Please, who's the one who can make an MP vote like that, tell me, and where does it say it without conflicting with fundamental democratic principles? Then something's wrong when we get these decisions to be executed, something's wrong. Whether the Constitutional Court extended its authority not to see the circumstances so that he said, we suspend, so we eliminate that provision, it ceases to be valid, so let the Assembly do so, and not give deadlines, that the Assembly will bring it into line according to its own opinion, and it is not known when, when it achieves political consensus in this regard. So these are the fundamental democratic principles and the enforcement of a judicial decision. Whether the court went there, I say, it is a deadline, or where it requires harmonisation, or should have remained only on the fact that it is – a member and not in accordance with the Constitution and can no longer be applied, but that formula used in this respect. So that's, that's the fundamental difference. 65 Did I mention, I did not mention the tendencys of the Sudocrat, whether there are people who think, if we cannot solve within Parliament in a democratic way, we will try to solve it through the courts. And don't ask me to look back at the work of the courts, how they've been working so far, naked statistics indicate catastrophic things, naked statistics, and don't pull some things where we're going to polarize and confrontation, etc., it doesn't make sense, and I won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15170	Replica, Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15171	Here, I've been waiting for the time to discuss it, but it looks like it's gonna take a while. It's hard to talk about these things after Professor Kunić, but that's why he gave Mr. Džaferović a chance and I have to react. You probably know that there are legal theorists and legal historians who deal exclusively with banana states in the world and who are building their legal careers, and that's one of the specific things that they do, and it would be very interesting for them to be present in Parliament today in a country where they sort of go in that direction and call for such an arrangement as an arrangement in these banana states. We know how many there are and how they're made, and we'd probably have something to hear today. So, it's a very dangerous thesis that Mr. Džaferović put out here, which I've heard well and translated into Cyrillic, and it's like this -- you've changed the thesis, the prosecutor's administration, you haven't made a decision of the Constitutional Court, you've committed a crime, but I'm not afraid for your vote, and that's where he stopped. But he said, "You who voted differently, think about what will happen to you." It is the dangerous thesis of Mr Jaferovic in this House. He does not dispute that the prosecutor has the right to act, but he says – not to me, to care for these others, my vote is legitimate, and those who voted differently should see what would happen to them. It's very dangerous and that's the problem. It is not today's replacement of the thesis in the story of not needing, nor is anyone, I have not heard anyone say they should not execute decisions of the Constitutional Court, but a very dangerous replacement of Mr Džaferović's thesis, he is talking about a criminal offence, which is true, about the non-execution of the court's decisions, but does not mention other crimes concerning the protection of the integrity of this Parliament and its functioning. So, we can be prosecuted by threats, blackmails, pressures, whatever you want, it doesn't matter, it's not a crime, but he doesn't mention it, but there's this thing that Professor Kunić talked about, what's the problem with Parliament's relationship with the Constitutional Court that doesn't work that way. And then someone who didn't understand, of course, that he did it when he had this kind of support. It's really unacceptable, this doesn't exist anywhere because you don't have the Constitutional Court Act and then you have in all the places where change is required and that time has done its and Dejton and everything else, but here no, don't touch anything here, it has to stay here as it used to be. And the judge who excluded his opinion when the verdict was being debated, Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci, clearly wrote, and whoever reads it will see that he wrote the truth there about BiH, and said what, why is it all so and what needs to be protected in BiH. However, some did not listen to him, and this is an identical debate. And I think it is absolutely unacceptable in this way and it goes into very, very dangerous waters to keep what is our thesis, to try to create political relations in BiH through the BiH judiciary. It's dangerous, the democracy thing has nothing to do with it. I wanted to pick up at the beginning, and that's when I end up, when my colleague Azra is 66.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15172	Replication time...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15173	I end up, when she set an example, I always wondered what you from Sarajevo were doing, how you register these satisfied Hrvat and how, or do you have a device, how you know which ones are satisfied and how these guys come out right now and say they're unhappy and I'm always interested in which side there are more or more of them that you find satisfied and how you recognize them, how you register them, or how you can count them once and tell which ones are more content and dissatisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15174	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15175	Good thing we're not throwing now, replica Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15176	The replica refers to the invitation of Mr Džaferović to certain institutions to do their job, I think the listing went from the Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers, the court, the Constitutional Court, the Prosecutor's Office, to all of them doing their job. And it should actually be agreed that all these institutions, and those that are not listed, are doing their job, but, apparently, that word is so incomprehensible to some in the BiH Prosecution, in an adequate way. So, not in any way, you can't do your job in a way that goes beyond the constitutionally prescribed framework. You can, but then it's an unconstitutional action. You can't do your job, and no institution should do it in a way that goes beyond the law of the prescribed framework. Yeah, but then it's illegal. And things should be called a real name. Unfortunately, we live in such a country, my colleague Ljubić said well, the problems stemming from an inadequate one, now I will reuse that expression, an inadequate framework, from an inadequate response or almost no answer to the key issue raised with the first democratic steps in this country, which is what BiH is saying. From the fact that the internal consensus itself has not answered the question, etc., etc. We live in a country at the end where it is possible to suspend, on behalf of the rule of law and on behalf of one of the fundamental democratic principles – the rule of law, the decision of the only legal and legitimate body to take care of the legality and legitimacy of the electoral process, it is only because the daily political interest says that this decision should be suspended and, of course, suspended by the rule of law. Obviously, certain lessons have been drawn from this and certain, I hope still, wrong conclusions that it is possible then to go as anyone wants, and to strike on the very basis of parliamentary democracy in the way it was done with this letter. I hope, however, that this is about, as I would say, a bad, one bad moment and not a systematic approach. And I agree with my colleague, Beriz Belkić, that it might be most useful for us, for all of this to be informed by the small High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, and that it may then inform us of its conclusions on this case. And not to spread stories, here's a stop. Thank you. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15177	Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15178	So this is not the first time we have listened to Mr. Džaferović's lecture that in such an easy way says what he said. Sometimes I think it would be good for him to come back, apologize to his colleagues, at least have respect for those of us who have been sitting for years and listen to how much he... in a constant attempt to strengthen what and constantly supports what was the former Republic of BiH and constantly destroys what is the Dayton BiH and what is its aneks iv.e. When you have invited everyone to do their job, I will remind you that the Council of Ministers has done its job and in parliamentary procedure released laws that are in line with the Constitution of this country, even though in one case the Constitutional Court, although it could have done it alone, seems to me that he wanted to encourage Parliament to arrange this area in the manner that the Constitution of this country requires. So, on a legitimate proposal or legal proposals, which were coming, and by the Constitution defined the proposals that came from the Council of Ministers your answer and you similar was NO, so that one round of people would propose unconstitutional proposals and complain that they would be the ones who would serve for the realization of your interests. Now, that way we will never be able to agree, because if the BiH Constitution is to represent a sacred letter for all of us, then there will be no other solution that will consider to be a sacred letter, and the BiH Constitution will only show when they make a event like you today. So, I'm re-attacking and begging the Constitutional Court, never getting rid of this stuff unless we get help with it. So, only if someone who can participate in and help solve these problems is successful and I even think that it will end much more successfully and much faster than can be assumed, because then it will be impossible for those who hide what they actually think, that they will have to stick to the Dayton Agreement and work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15179	Thank you. Replica, MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15180	Mr. Chairman, I'm sad, so some discussions I have to replicate at all, my position is such that I'd rather not, they don't deserve it. I didn't hear anything or mostly there was nothing that was a debate through the replicas with the views I made in my discussion. Usually, it would be different from what I was saying, some things I didn't say or make up, and then with those thesiss, it would be driven by the polemics. And besides, in some cases, the lack of arguments has been tried to compensate for the increased tone. I'm asking you, I'm getting up to say that the problem in this country, when this point of the agenda is about non-implementation of the Constitutional Court's rulings. The system is prescribed, we know all about it, and let's talk about it, that's actually the point. For me, it's a substitute for the thesis if we're discussing how the prosecutor acts, let's discuss who needs to discuss it, and let's discuss the non-implementation of the verdict. That's what we're expected to do. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15181	Okay, I remind you that we are discussing the Information on the BiH Prosecutor's memos and that this point has come unanimously on the agenda. Replica, Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15182	Well, here you are, Mr. Chairman, the best way to send the replica to Mr. Džaferović. It is true, it is not, it is not the point of the Constitutional Court's decision, in a peaceful tone to say that the point is that people feel threatened here, that people feel offended here, that they have been hit on Parliament, on dignity, on the right and on freedom of choice. Is there any greater value in this society? If there is, if that is what Professor Kunić told you, let the people be told that this Parliament will work under threat, under pressure and blackmail and so forth. There are surgeons here who know what the higher and lower values mean, which are, which are the higher values that are being protected, which are lower for which we fight but not at the expense of higher values. You're asking the surgeons to let the small finger so a man dies because you won't let him cut off his little finger, no, until there's a collapse. That's the essence of your story and you're saying that no one has offered you any arguments. This is what this is all about: Parliament's position is at stake here, and basic democratic relations in BiH are at stake. I guess that's more valuable than some other stuff. No Niko here has said that they will not respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but that the people here are looking for the best way to do so have come to the situation that others like that prosecutor have compromised the democratic decision in this House. And that, and we asked you for support for such a thing and solidarity, we did not come to the Constitutional Court's decision to discuss together how to best implement them. And you were also told that you had the opportunity to honor the Constitutional Court's decision with your vote. You refused, and I remember you said you'd never do it, you stood up and said you'd never get it. That's when you brought down the Constitutional Court's request directly. But SNSD MPs as they move their little finger will defend your right to vote as you are, and we will defend it by not agreeing with you in anything, but you have the right to vote no matter what the courts in this country think, because we think that you are above these courts in your business. And you tried to sell us today the thesis that in this country there is a god prosecutor. Although the prosecutor has written three lines of silence, he acts, because he does his job, that he does his job, you don't care what kind of work it is, you're a State MP. It's a bad job that this prosecutor is doing, a dangerous job, and that's what we wanted to say and see together what we're going to do, not make a drama about it. But you stayed and invited us in front of all of us to do it, to keep doing what he started. I understand that you agree with it, but it is up to us to, yes, yes, yes, and it is recommended to us that we proceed not by conscience, but by the papers that come, that we read the paper before, and then vote as someone asks. Today he's looking for a prosecutor, tomorrow he'll be looking for some embassy, the day after tomorrow he'll be looking for some local community, then some association and everyone else. There is a Herzegovina they know it. Fear the Mouse, fear this, fear what you wish to bring us down to. So if, I told you once here, if you'd like to let us open the cards so we can disband ourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15183	Discussion, MP Slavko Jovičić. Here you go. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15184	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm going to počeću first, and I'm going to call this letter a real name, fully aware of any responsibility, this letter from the D.A. is to be called a laxative, unseen laxative, so whoever was in the signature. Now let me go back to that one, the one in my mind, the normal discussion. I welcome the President of the Constitutional Court, I would be sorry to pass the president, who I know, if I didn't say hello to her, and I'm sorry you're sitting upstairs, here are empty chairs here, here are the empty days there three reserved, and they're never there. Is it a matter of MEP Jovičić waiting for you at the door and saying where you will be sitting, and I have barely fought for my place. I highly appreciate and respect you and everything that is said today and what will be said on my part has nothing to do with you personally and with your position as President of the Constitutional Court. Here we are talking about the Constitutional Court as the highest truth in the system. So I'm just going to remind you of three things -- what Parliament did was, where did someone have the right to ask and ask if I voted like this and there from a stenogram, a charter, whether I was sitting at all at that moment, or because of health problems, or if I didn't know what, and what was relevant to the Constitutional Court in order to respect the decisions they had made earlier. And now let me remind you, and it is not at your address again, because you have nothing to do with this case, in 2005, not as a politician, not as an MP, what about the Constitutional Court, the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the appeals of this poor people, the Parliament you accuse, condemn, whatever you want, take us all to court if you can, what with the poor people we represent, submit an appeal that I get in my favor in which the Constitutional Court under your rules, which Professor Kunić has explained all of this finely, and we all understand it, make it mandatory for those who are due within a month to me as bearer and representative of the applicants within a month of the answer. Of course they're deaf. Then there is in your rule, according to which you work, a provision in which you are obliged to follow your decisions within a year, and that is the key; do not follow it yourself. I'm waiting for that year, then a year and a half, so since I know these proceedings, I'm putting together criminal charges against those persons that you've obliged to answer to me within a month, and they're not answering for a year and a half, and I'm going directly to the D.A.'s office for a hundred chief prosecutors, with a name and a last name, because I wasn't an MP, and I'm looking for what it is. So in this House, I ask you a series of events, I cannot tell you exactly how many times, but here are seven, eight times the parliamentary questions for that decision and the appeal you've made for my benefit. And I get from you the answer that you don't know what case this is, not personally, I keep telling you, it has nothing to do with you and your position as chairman, but the Constitutional Court. So I either file a criminal report or I don't know what the D.A.'s office is doing to this unfortunate, unfortunate D.A.'s office, stole some Dayton Agreement, my people, stole our constitution, Aneks IV doesn't have, and I personally take the prosecution's criminal charges to a table there to sign. And you know what they're saying to me? Normal as everyone - we are unable to respond to your request. And they are able to write me a memo here whether or not I attended Parliament's session. If this was a holy temple, and I don't want to make a joke out of Parliament, because I am extremely well-behaved, I would now be baptized with my left, my right hand, and I don't know what to do, what to do. And as I'm not allowed to speak against you, as long as I'm alive or speaking from this position, from this chair, and I'm going to say everything, because I'm all right. Where did you get the right to put pressure on Parliament and ask if I was present at the time and what I voted for? 70 Let me tell you right now, whenever I have your memo from the D.A., I'm always against it before I get it, so when I read it twice I'm against it, so when I see who's signed three times I'm against it. And then, you take everything I say as my own, some attitude and animosity towards you. Well, I'm sorry that you represent the D.A.'s office, because you're the least guilty there, but this is not a threat like you're threatening me, because you shouldn't threaten me to choose you, but others are choosing you, so they send you here, and now I can't say anything against you. I'm laughing, I'm laughing, and I'm going to talk more, but I've got nothing memorized in my mind. Why didn't you answer a few of my criminal charges I personally handed over to the D.A.'s office? Why didn't the Constitutional Court answer their decision, not my seven years, eight past. And I could ask you by morning, I'm just glad that you're here today, the President of the Court please once again, I really need to be correct, thank you for the first time as President of the Constitutional Court, someone from that office, I see you here. Personally as a man, I'm sorry you're sitting upstairs, where you're lucky to be here so if I could say hello to you, but I'm weak with my legs I'd come to you, I can't. So I'm not making a joke out of this, I'm talking about this country's functioning system. And not to forget my friend, Attorney-General Mandić, too, thank him for coming and he is the institution representing this country. Thank you, everyone. It doesn't matter whose party it belongs to. I'm fine with it if it protects the interests of this country, but nobody's worth asking me for what I voted for and what I voted for. Well, my men, I won't hurt anyone, but here's a picturesque one.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15185	Let's go back... Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15186	I'm done, I'm done, I'm not gonna hurt anyone, I don't seem to know anything about the law, and I certainly have a rich experience of someone, and I'm not going to humiliate you, but I'm going to find one slagort, she's a judge who signed or prosecutor, what she is, what my illiterate grandmother Janja from the neighborhood wouldn't have sent her to ask Parliament to declare whether Božo Ljubić was chaired, Denis Bećirović, who was sitting here, and I chose by the third to go back upstairs, and now I don't know when Denise sat with me in the front row, when you were up there, how I'll explain to them then. Now, that's all a joke called this memo and get serious for once.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15187	I thank Mr. Jovičić. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15188	Don't bother me anymore. Don't interrupt me. I don't get a chance to see them all the time, but, hey, they get to write this to me all the time, that's the problem, I know when I'm gonna stop.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15189	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15190	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members of the College, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, here we welcome you all. And here, as usual, we usually talk a lot more about what's not on the agenda than what's on the agenda. I've already said, I've had an opportunity by chance in the hallway, I've shown pleasure to see the President of the Constitutional Court, although I have no idea what occasion she's been invited to the session today, so, but I'm glad I saw the President of the Constitutional Court, because the agenda doesn't have a very mild touch point with the Constitutional Court. To sit in this hall I think it is a special honor, especially for those who have received that mandate from the citizens of this country. And there is no institution in this country, no institution, no constitution prescribed, no law, no rules chosen in this way in this number. The most democratic, the most legitimate institution, representatives of all parts and all citizens and peoples of BiH sit here in this hall, are given the mandate in free and democratic elections. According to our Constitution -- BiH rests, is a democratic state that rests in free and democratic elections. She doesn't rest on any rules, she doesn't rest on any rules, so let me say no judgments here, she rests in free and democratic elections. And we are today discussing the correspondence of an institution of this country with the highest legislative body in this country, that is the item of the agenda. The institution has not even been mentioned in any letter in the BiH Constitution, so not one letter has been mentioned, by the name of the institution. To not be misunderstood, I think it is a very important institution, I think it is a very important institution and I think that this institution must be in the function of protecting both this Constitution and constitutional order in BiH and the law in BiH and freedom and rights, but also protect the overall democratic order in BiH. It should answer to someone in this country, or to the citizens in some way, I have problemed it several times, I do not know how the BiH Prosecutor's Office fulfils its own way of responsibility to the citizens of this country, does not directly respond through elected representatives of citizens and peoples, I do not know how it fulfils its responsibility element. The fact is, obviously, there are some parallel forms of responsibility. And I was frantic when I read the letter that I received in the materials, that there was an institution in this country that called for the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, the provisions that define the prosecution's investigative actions, that there was no confusion that these were some curtous correspondence with Parliament, means the article to which the prosecution is called is the prosecution's jurisdiction to carry out certain investigative actions. And as part of these investigative actions, the Prosecutor's Office asks who the members of the College are, I don't know now either, that I don't, in irony, want to use some expressions for this most important institution of this country, who are members of the College of Commons, who was sitting when they decided somewhere in a field somewhere, who were members of Parliament, how they pleaded, in the context of conducting investigative actions. If we were truly a democratic country, if we really respected the Constitution of this country, we would characterise such acts as they belong to them, but neither will we. We, here we are again asking the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, where these same people are sitting who chose themselves, that they tell us they're not right. Don't do it on your own, don't do anything, don't do anything. ...that we ask them now, because they only answer to themselves. So they don't respond to the people, to parliaments, to governments, etc. They answer to themselves, and that is enough for them, and let them answer. 72 I would like to say very clearly here that the method of correspondence, especially in this one letter, is personally, absolutely unacceptable, not partly, absolutely unacceptable as a correspondence with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In that sense, I will propose a conclusion: - The House of Representatives finds it unacceptable and unacceptable to coordinate the BiH Prosecutor's Office towards the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, especially in a memo, so that the number of this letter mentioned, that I do not read it now, and asks the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council to consider this issue and determine against the conduct of the handling prosecutor. There's a disciplinary prosecutor there, to see if he, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, will assess whether there's a breach in the work of the handling prosecutor. I think he does, and I'm asking you for support to come to this conclusion. Secondly, I want this country to have a strong prosecutor's office, because there are many reasons for having a strong and responsible and professional prosecutor's office. I want him to have strong, professional, independent, but independent, courts and prosecutions. It seems to me that in this case the prosecution is used for some kind of political calculation, God Bog it isn't, but it seems to me that some kind of pressure is trying to put an unacceptable pressure on the most legislative body. I wish I wasn't right, I'm afraid that, if that's the case, if that's how anyone in this country can treat the highest legislative body of this country, I'm afraid, what's the security, the legal certainty of ordinary citizens, here's the one who chose us, and they sent us here to make laws on their behalf, to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court, to change the constitution as it is to make it better, and that's the only mandate that has this body. When and if it is on the agenda of the debate on functioning, and it would mean well, the Constitutional Court, the way the Constitutional Court's decisions are implemented, and good and good, I will be very happy to get involved, give my contribution and I would like to, I would really like to have no unrealised, unimplemented decisions under the Constitutional Court's rulings. I personally appreciate that the decisions, although they say they are not being commented, that they are final, so they are not variable, correct this one, and we would do well to make an effort, but not under the threat of any prosecutor in this country, how and in what way will we come up with a solution that will be satisfactory and in accordance with this Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15191	Replica, Ambassador Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15192	I thank the chairman. I see that my colleague Lozančić made the last call and suggested this conclusion. Until his suggestion of a conclusion, it seems to me that my conclusion was the strongest. And I didn't recognize in your conversation that this conclusion is not right, but that it needs to be strengthened. Here, I am here to withdraw this conclusion, to support your conclusion and to make it clear whether the prosecution is behind the prosecutor who corresponds with the BiH Parliament, to insert into your conclusion other than the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and the Prosecutor's Office, because it probably has its own disciplinary group that does so. If someone has an even stronger conclusion, I'm going to say in advance that I'm going to support that stronger conclusion, so 73 that I take this as a graduation of the conclusions that we've suggested here, and not that I intend to suggest a conclusion that doesn't have any function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15193	MP Mladen Bosić applied for the discussion. Here's a colleague of Bosiću.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15194	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I'd first invite the D.A.'s office to say that they see this debate and how they see this case that, here's the political connotation. Unlike Dr. Kunić, I don't know Džaferović and other law enforcement professionals, I see it as a very different eye, as an obvious pressure, political pressure from the Prosecutor's Office on the BiH Parliament as part of the overall lynch atmosphere towards political representatives in this House. The language and tone, which have been written, corresponds with the language we listen to on television every day from various NGOs, various journalists and various articles tasked with creating an atmosphere of non-existentness or weakness of BiH institutions. Now that I would not turn out to be the one defending BiH institutions more than those who are even more in favour of them, I will first and foremost point out that this is about the humiliating status of this House and that we should still have something concrete on the basis of it, here we support all these demands, or conclusions that you have proposed. I suggest you agree on one conclusion, so if we can all vote it out together. How did this happen? Well, abuse of the justice system, in this case, the prosecution, for political purposes. A while ago, I was interviewed by the director of the OSCE in BiH and the story of sejdić-Finac-Finca decision and the man said – so Sejdić, you know, Sejdić is our employee, he works at the OSCE. So I said, "Was Sejdić an apostle?" And when did he appeal to the court? So he says, "Yes, it is." Well, then it's clear why Sejdić filed an appeal to the Court. That's how this works. I'm convinced someone winked at the D.A.'s office to do this gesture at the moment, to put extra pressure on him. If he didn't wink at him, then the prosecution only felt it was time to engage in this general atmosphere of lynch against the BiH Parliament and other politicians. So this whole situation has definitely convinced me that this Parliament should immediately, by emergency procedure, put the law by which parliament will elect BiH prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15195	Since there are no more applications for discussion by the MPs, just a few words. So, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is a constitutional category and it is bicameral, there are two homes that are completely equal. No law in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly can be passed unless adopted in the same course in both homes. Why am I saying that? The initiative for this debate has been launched by the Joint College. At the meeting of the Joint College were all three members of the College of Representatives and all three members of the Colleges of the House of Peoples. And it was unanimously adopted at the Joint College, then unanimously at the narrow and extended college to find 74 this point, without any vote abstentioned at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. We have heard the opinions of all MPs in the House of Representatives in the past over an hour on this point. The MPs have expressed their democratic opinions and views on this, and we are now leaving the possibility for the House of Representatives to turn to the guests who have been invited, among other things, for this part of the agenda. Here you go. Is anyone, representative of the Constitutional Court of BiH, Mrs Valerija Galić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15196	Dear Mr. President of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Dr. Bećirović, the Honored Presidents, Dr. Živković and Dr. Ljubić, the Honored Ladies and Gentlemen of Representatives, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for inviting me to present today to this high House and inform you of some issues concerning the problem of implementing decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court. And today's debate of some respected MPs has shown how sensitive the relationship between the legislative authority and the Intangible Court is. Of course, you have national sovereignty, we don't. But given the role that the Constitutional Court has in every democratic system to remove, within its primary competence, an abstract, concrete and initial control of constitutionality, in overseeing the work of the legislative authority, from the legal system, i.e. to abolish certain provisions of the law, the relationship between the Constitutional Court and the legislative body, in a specific case between the BiH Constitutional Court and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, should be based on a functional pragmatic level. I was, there was no dilemma that I would respond today to this high House and, as I said, to point out in my jurisdiction some of the problems that arise in the execution of the Constitutional Court's decisions. The fact is that in each system of decisions of the courts, and in particular decisions of constitutional courts, quality and speed should be executed without any dilemma, and they represent an effective instrument in strengthening the legal system of a particular state. They contribute to individual protection of human rights and strengthening the rule of law. As has already been pointed out by some respected MPs, I will remind you that, according to the Constitution of BiH, the decisions of the Constitutional Court are final and binding. Their non-execution was sanctioned by the BiH Penal Code. Although the legislator's commendable intensity to sanction the failure of the Constitutional Court's decisions, the practice has shown, however, that the question of whether this is an effective mechanism is raised. In the execution of decisions of the Constitutional Court, two groups of problems arise. First, decisions in the implementation, i.e. the enforcement of decisions of the Constitutional Court, when the Constitutional Court finds that a provision of the law is unconstitutional or of any other general act and order its enforcement and other group of problems, which is the most common, which occurs within the framework of the Court of Appeal, when the Constitutional Court determines an infringement of certain constitutional law in a specific case. Although quantitative analyses show that a large number of decisions of the Constitutional Court are being carried out, quantitative analyses nevertheless suggest that some of the more significant decisions of the Constitutional Court are not being carried out. So far, 80 solutions have been made on the non-implementation of the Constitutional Court's decisions, as of 31.03 this year. The four concerns solutions to the non-execution of the 75th Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I suppose, I'll remind you, you know in which cases the Constitutional Court has reached a solution. This refers to non-implementation, non-implementation of the Mostar City Decision, the current issue, which you have been dealing with for a long time, the Code of Origin Numbers, the unique home number, then the Electoral Law in the section relating to the alignment of the title of election units in accordance with the RS Law on Territorial Organisation and the Law on Citizenship of BiH. I said that really through some analysis, and here and today's debate has shown, it raises the question of whether the sanctioning mechanism for non-execution of criminal acts is an effective mechanism. I must say that BiH is one of the few countries that envisioned this instrument as an instrument of pressure from certain entities in the event of non-execution of the Constitutional Court decisions. Moreover, according to our knowledge and some of the comparative indicators, we have such an instrument in Azerbaijan and Slovakia, where competent prosecutors, within their regular activities, can initiate a criminal procedure for non-execution of court decisions. Indeed, in some other countries and without, countries that have a more developed culture democratically and where there is no question of the principle of rule of law, decisions of constitutional courts, although there are no certain mechanisms, are implemented without difficulty. Dear Representative Majkić has suggested one conclusion which in my opinion, you have suggested an ad hoc one body. I can also say ad hoc that this could be acceptable, but after a comprehensive analysis of the present mechanism that is envisaged and yet some test whether this instrument would ultimately mean eventually whether or not a system regulation should be adopted or otherwise regulated, would it show any effects that would support the execution of the Constitutional Court's decisions. And just to say one more thing, the Constitutional Court does not initiate, nor can a certain indication be expected from the Constitutional Court that it prosecutes certain entities for failing to execute the Constitutional Court's decision. The role of the Constitutional Court shall be completed, given that the Constitutional Court, in accordance with the rules of the Constitutional Court, oversees the enforcement of the Constitutional Court's decision, does not implement them. In the event of a delay in execution or inadequate execution, the Constitutional Court shall make a decision on the non-execution provided to the competent prosecutor. So our role ends here and the Constitutional Court is his because it is his primary and primary task to make decisions that are in accordance with the Constitution and to support the Constitution. I would, there's only so much. I hope you will understand that some of the issues concerning the constitutional power of the Constitutional Court, the rules of the Constitutional Court, the distinguished representative Živković has launched a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the Constitutional Court rules, I would prejudge both my position and my opinion of the rules, of course as an authorised applicant of the application. In the further procedure of the Constitutional Court, it will be resolved and will respond to that request and make an adequate decision on the matter. And all the other questions related to the Constitutional Court's work, for some decisions of the Constitutional Court still overcome today my competences in your address on the subject on the agenda. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15197	I thank the Honorable President of the Constitutional Court, Mrs. Valerija Galić. Do any of the guests want to talk to you? Here you go. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15198	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I'm Deputy Chief Prosecutor Božo Mihajlović. Given everything I've heard today about this problem, I can't say myself out loud at this point, until I check all the facts about these cases in the D.A.'s office. In any case, the Prosecutor's Office has received not four cases, but also more than 30 cases related to the non-execution of decisions of the Constitutional Court, the Court of BiH and other bodies which may be brought into contact with the criminal offence of non-execution of the Constitutional Court's decision. The court's proceedings are the usual procedure for collecting all material evidence to determine whether decisions of the Constitutional Court are being followed. Doesn't mean the D.A.'s office is asking for some information that the D.A.'s office has made a public prosecutor's decision. The collection of material is aimed at the prosecution's conclusion that the concrete decision is being reached by the criminal acts prescribed by the BiH Criminal Law. In that sense, in order not to prejudge the matter, the BiH Prosecutor's Office will give a complete answer, or a full statement, in connection with your adopted conclusion. And I don't see any reason and I don't think any prosecutor has acted under any influence. It is simply a matter of collecting data on the basis of which a public prosecutor's decision will be made. You see, if the prosecution collects data from which it is unequivocal to go and to implement the procedure for the adoption of certain regulations, it does not mean that a criminal act is being carried out, but only on the basis of these materials can Parliament, or whoever is obliged to execute the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court, seek to make that decision and make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15199	I thank the Deputy Attorney General. I remind you, to be precise, at this session within this item of the agenda, we have not adopted any conclusions at this time. So, we've had the debate, and at the end of the session, we're just going to get to the bottom of the proposed conclusions that came out of this debate. The word is from the Attorney General. Here you go, Mr. Mlađen Mandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15200	I'll do it very briefly. I responded to the call of the chairman, or the College. Since the Advocate's Office defends the property interests of all BiH authorities and the Parliamentary Assembly, both of them at home, I really have no intention to owe, to discuss, except to help Mr Džaferović that there will actually be criminal acts of rejection, non-execution or any representation, any action that prevents the execution of the crime. And it's about an official person, so it can't be a sad organ, just an official person, an individual. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15201	Thank you. 77 I find that there are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate on the 10th agenda, and we're giving a 60-minute break. So, pick-up at 3:50 p.m. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will continue to work. I'm realizing we have the necessary quorum. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda, Ad. 11. Proposal for a resolution on the conviction of the Srebrenica crime genocide: MPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15204	Well, here, just in that role and I'm reporting, I'm going to be pretty brief, because I'm simply convinced that the most important part, that's for sure all MPs know what this is all about, and so I'm going to make sure that there's no extra word. So, in the very preamble of this document, that is, this declaration is the argument for its adoption, at least some of it, it is far wider. We are convinced that by adopting such a document, this Parliament, in a way, would carry out its obligation, a kind of debt to the victims of the crime of genocide that took place in Srebrenica and their families. We would also do the same for all victims and their families of war crimes, crimes against humanity throughout BiH, and we would also do so according to all the victims in the former SFRY and their families. We think we have a duty to do this to ourselves, and to our children, peace and development of this society. We simply think that this is a democratic practice, that is, a kind of civilization act that is common in these situations. Thank you very much. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15205	Thank you. The word has an MP, Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15206	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. Here, on behalf of the SDA MPs' club in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, I can say the following. Namely, this is the third or fourth modified resolution in the parliamentary procedure, and it seems to me that it is high time that this parliament of the country in which it was all happening, however, that the positive light of adoption of such a document, after the US Senate, after the European Parliament, after the Serbian Parliament, etc. I think it is high time that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly gave the green light to a resolution like this condemning genocide, no matter where it happened. Therefore, here is the Club of Representatives of the SDA to support this resolution, i.e. it will be against the Commission's negative report.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15207	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15208	The word is from Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15209	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. So here, as my predecessor said, this motion for a resolution in something different or modified texts, has already appeared several times, at least in the past, here in this assembly of the House of Representatives, and my impression is that this proposal that we have before us today, which has already been in parliamentary procedure for some time, is a very well-balanced proposal, respecting all the facts that have marked ours, so to speak, the dreary past of the past. I think it is high time for the Parliamentary Assembly, so all I said about the Parliamentary Assembly in the previous agenda point to add to this debate, because I think it is such a body and that it should be such a body, should show one of its civilizational gestures to those citizens of this country who have suffered the most, although few have suffered very little as victims of past war events. Perhaps, if we had given this resolution a chance to enter into some kind of parliamentary debate, any space that might extend the name of the resolution itself, I am truly sorry as a member of the Committee for Human Rights,... such a name, that we haven't found the strength and opportunity to miss, so to speak, in a further parliamentary procedure, although there have been certain ideas to postpone the plea, to open a sort of public debate, that this proposal in a special way becomes, in a way, to say, the property of this Committee, because I think that, in the debate of the Committee itself, whatever we decide today, means that we change the past not 79 we can, it is what it is. But with one positive relationship, I'm sure we can relax the present more significantly, especially in a positive sense, to affect the future of all of us, especially those younger ones in this country. I don't know what the outcome of this resolution will be today. Here, I have defined myself more recently on this issue so that I have no dilemma, and I don't think it's too much wisdom or courage to act in accordance with what this resolution declares, or to give it support. Well, here I am, and this time I am supporting this resolution, although I would say again, I would like it to be possible for it to become the property of the Commission, so yes, here may be some dilemmas and little things, if they are the reason that it cannot pass, to open them up to finally, here is the Parliamentary Assembly to give its position on this big issue in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15210	Thank you. Ambassador Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know this time too this resolution will be Sisif's job for this House. We all know why. We still haven't reached that civilization level in BiH to accept the cruel truth only war can bring. A beautiful poet, whom I worship, said: The sword is the sword, and the crying is the crying. Every pain is the same. Don't be angry, ladies and gentlemen, all of you here, I know best among you what is both. But don't think this is my deep subjective opinion. I agree with the predecessor, if the whole of Europe and the country is in the environment, we have brought this kind of civilization act, and if you remember one of my performances, I think I'm the only one among you who has brought the pain from World War II with me, I told you, I spent part of my childhood in the House of War orphans, I know what pain is, as a child, but I would still ask you to gather enough courage and determination to accept this and take down that veil of blackness over BiH, that we are still just a warring tribe, not a civilized people. What happened was, they're dead, they're alive. Let's go over this like civilized people and move on to the future. It's the only way, there's no other way, believe me. When you have to do this, do it yourself. So I ask you and I urge you to at least a little bit at this point to be finally and definitely unique, just people, nothing more. We as a club, of course we'll vote for this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15212	Thank you. Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15213	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. 80 So nothing, I will repeat just a few things I have already said on the Commission, and even when this topic, not only was the resolution, but when war crimes were being debated, I will now just remind my colleagues and not to surprise you that all three Serbian members of the Commission voted against. So, I speak for myself. Niko of you gentlemen and friends of the Bošnjak can personally be angry with me or think of me as the man of someone who doesn't understand what it was if I won't support it and I won't vote for this resolution. I don't know, I didn't bid, I wasn't making a poll, but 90% of Srbin in RS won't support this. Then what does the resolution mean to you? I don't know, and I didn't throw the dice, or mess with this subject, Bog forgive me, what people would say, this is the most serious thing, but if sometimes, I don't know when, in some function, there's someone else instead of Radmanović, Izetbegović and Komšić, and when all three of them go to the Potocara and when all three go to Voluntary, so that the police of Canton Sarajevo don't keep us, and when all three go to where the Hrvat died in Nazdol and I don't know where not to mention those places, then it will be the strongest message for all three people and help, at least with such trust not to reconcile, reconciliation is an individual act. And no resolution here in Parliament, however voted, and I will vote that you know against, and I am not a man to vote against, and I am not interested in what the European Parliament and Jelko Kacin voted for, because if he fights for human rights, let him first advocate to return 200 million marks taken by the Ljubljanska Banka to this poor woman from BiH, so I will consider him a Democrats, here is a public statement. So what someone else has adopted, and if anyone from Serbia, from Croatia, apologizes to me, no one will return health to me, nor will they return the victims to Srebrenica in Potocari, nor will they return the victims from '92. '95. 3,267 Serbian victims in the Srebrenica area that nobody mentions. So never, I'm telling you as a man who's been through all the nudity, given Bog to no one, but never ask me, I don't know of other Srbin, I speak for myself, to vote for something. Not because I am an inhuman, I understand all this suffering, tragedy, but in BiH will never reach one truth, will always have one truth Bošnjak, the other will have Srbin, the third will have Hrvat, the fourth will have an international community and lobbyists lobbying for certain nations and nations, the fifth will have an NGO that takes money from foreigners and on the suffering and blood of those who have been killed rich, so they as some organise a conference on the reconciliation of the people, but the unfortunate Kandic Kandićka who has been declared as, please, an honorary citizen of Sarajevo. You can never achieve trust and reconciliation with her, but with me who will understand the loss of the Bosniak people, because in the name of my people, in the name of Bog, no one should have killed an innocent man, whether he was in Srebrenica, was in Mostar, he was in Nazdol, he was in my Silas, where people were killed, or I don't know where. So don't think of me as a less human, less Srbin, and less member of Parliament, and I don't know what other reasonable being I am if I won't vote for this. And it's clear why I won't. The World War II history has not yet been clarified, since World War II. Today, we ask ourselves, "Who has confused the pits and the truth in some parts where Srbin have been killed?" Who took the Hrvat to Austria and killed them, I don't know why or how? Who sacrificed in the Sremski front 20,000 Serbian best youth? We don't know people. Don't make us, at least speak for myself, I certainly do, I don't know how my colleagues will define themselves, don't make us and less think we're your friends if we don't accept this. It's not people's time, I'm telling you as a man, even though you're in a hurry, I know it. But I'm asking you what you're gonna get if you vote and I don't? Will you get from me some big size that the first and only Srbin in 2003 was in Potocari, held hands, no one else wanted to fight back. I didn't go there for CNN and every single camera in the world, when they saw me as if an angel had turned up, I had the best intentions. But when I see a Bošnjak, this fellow sitting here, which I greatly appreciate, with me going to Dobrovoljačka and saying here are killed Srbin and innocent soldiers, then expect me to vote for what you're asking. If you tell our colleague Slavko Jovičić, call me whatever you want, he was 1,334 days and abused like an animal, who today has terrible problems, if one of you gives me a confession, and I'm not asking, it's not your fault, I appreciate and respect you all, then I'm going to think of you as people who realize that your colleague from Parliament has suffered a terrible crime and who would now give me a mandate, a salary and all that I can normally walk, not run. So understand us, I will end up like people who won't bring you anything if everyone votes for this, and I won't, because I told you earlier. I don't know the percentage, but 90% of Srbin will never accept any resolution to vote here, but I will accept it sometime, I don't know when, when, then I won't be a politician anymore and I won't be in any of the terms, but if my friend Denis Beirović, whom I trust, my friend Božo Ljubić, Celebrate, are in three places together. And in the last term, remember my colleagues who were members of Parliament, I prayed to my dear friend Bakir Izetbegović and told him – let's go Bakire and I to Potocara I am just a member of the party, not a vice president, let's go together to Potocara, we will call a Hrvat with us, Niko Lozančić who is a great friend. Let's go where the Hrvat died, let's go to the silo where I was, let's go to Voluntary. No people, they won't. As you wish and expect me to support any resolution. I'm sorry to be like this, but this is the hardest point I can't keep my mouth shut and that hurts while I'm alive. And my children are pushing this, but I don't teach them to hate anyone, because hate is a disease. I'm one of the few people who's defeated hate inside. What are these friends of mine doing to me, the Bošnjak? They've never even heard of me if they haven't seen me on TV. What are they to blame? Nothing. But don't think evil to them either, God Bog. Everything he thought to them came back to me. Bog is my witness, I'm telling the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15214	The word has an emissary, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15215	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I have to admit that Mr. Jovičić's speech really touched me like that, because I know what he went through, how he went through. And I know, dear colleague Jovičić, that you are not the only one, that all those who have gone through silos are just as behaving as you are. And I'm sorry that the D.A.'s report was removed today, because there's a lot to say on that subject. I'm sorry, I'm truly sincere, and I think that every man who holds on to himself, to his dignity, can't be so insensitive, so cruel, that he doesn't feel sorry for every innocent life lost. And I'm sorry for every innocent life I've lost. And I find it extremely ugly to play with someone else's tragedy. Gosodin Jovičić mentioned Silas here today. Many here probably had personal tragedies and sacrifices and casualties and lots of things, but they never talk about them because it's very ugly 82 to use, manipulate their loved ones. It is clear that here we will never be able to agree on this resolution. And whoever wrote it knew it when he wrote it. So, his goal wasn't even to adopt her, but to raise tension here. And that's what we had last year before July. The only result that will be, and I come from that area, is and I know how both Srbin and Bošnjak live there, is that Srbin and Bošnjak who drank coffee as neighbors this morning, tonight when they watch the news in the morning will not, but will look at each other in the opposite direction and will no longer drink their coffee. Mr. Belkić, I'm not going to say anything about what happened in Srebrenica, and I've been around everything and one village. Here I have a photograph of a man working as a journalist of a journalist's story, until in Srebrenica no Bošnjak was killed, he was captured and roasted alive, his name is Nenad Rankić, his mother lives in Srebrenica. You know who made it, lit it alive on fire. It's also known where this man is and who he is and the video exists, he's never answered. I won't tell you what happened from that protected zone, but I'll give you the book of Ibran Mustafić "Planned Chaos", he...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15216	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15217	Well, here, I'll give you a present. Maybe you should read it one more time. I'll also tell you that I have them here, I got them from the Bošnjak from Srebrenica, the CDs of the death books from Srebrenica that were being led back then in Tuzla. Here are the people, the names of the people who are up in Potocari on that plate of their names, listed as victims of genocide. And from these parent books, you find those names in an attack on the village of Kravica, you find in an attack on Skelane that they were killed, injured there, in an attack on Skelane where the Aleksandar and Radisav Dimitrijević of 10 and 6 years of age were killed. When I was working as a journalist, and that's one of the most shocking stories I've ever done, they were when the eyewitnesses killed those two brothers who were killed by a sniper while trying to escape to Bajina's Bašta, told me that their mother, Milica Dimitrijević, had been carrying her Aleksandar for four years while his brain was leaking down her arms. And I repeat, I feel sorry for every victim, but I expect that one day it is said that in Srebrenica and in the area of Srebrenica, Bratunca and other municipalities, 3,000 were killed, as Slavuj 200 and some Srbin said, that these Srbin were killed. I am sorry, I repeat, and for every death of Bosniak life, and I expect the same thing that you do not do to us, but for yourself and the truth, from those lists of the injured Bošnjak in Srebrenica, separate those who have truly suffered innocently, which is for every conviction, and those who have been criminals and died killing Serb civilians. Do so because those who are innocent do not deserve the names of the others next to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15218	... one debate that is still within the framework of our parliamentary practice. [[microphone is not enabled]] The word, i.e. the replica, has Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15219	Surely it is a difficult topic, but the current course of discussion, in my opinion, is correct, everyone is expressing his view of things. I answered the line, not to raise tensions or create any kind of problem here, only to say two things. Absolutely not in my dream, nor Azra Hadžiahmetović, nor all of us who have been around this before and now worked to cause this act any pain, to collect some political points, we are simply convinced that this is a civil act and that one day it should be done. We'll probably do it, not us maybe some other people, and in a year, etc. As far as the dead Srbin are concerned, I absolutely honor you, if you have carefully read this declaration, it says in its second position that in this declaration, the recognition, or honor, or understanding of all the victims of war crimes, crimes against humanity in the entire BiH area, is also given to those 3,700 people who are innocent, as you say. I have complete understanding, and I have no problem not to pay both honor and respect, and whatever you want. As for the Potocari Memorial Centre, so I spent one longer part of my work in the construction of the Memorial Centre, I was chairman of the Management Board. It's true there are about 90 people who didn't get killed in July in Potocari. It's true, it's 97 that I think it's family, relatives, etc., who, in other times, died elsewhere, and I think it's a kind of process that these people aren't there, because the principles are made that only those who were killed in Srebrenica in July. It was very difficult to collect, people went abroad, we spent months, so to speak, collecting data, giving ads, checking etc., and it's true that 90 and some people didn't get hurt in the circumstances and the moment this Memorial center was built. Here, to finish, I've almost wasted my time, so I respect every man's approach to this thing, this is an individual thing, let each with himself, what they say, talk, and let it be determined. I understand Mr. Jovičić completely, and I absolutely don't think of using his honesty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15220	Thank you. Honorable representative Denis Bećirović, House Speaker, discussed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15221	In short, I would like to say that it is clear to all of us that there are no MPs in this House of Representatives, not a single political party who had no position before this session and who will not present this position in a certain way on this agenda. 84 In that regard, I would like to say, on behalf of us from the SDP Club, that, when it comes to the position of the SDP, our position is clear and consistent and we will support this text of the resolution. In the previous assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly, I was just the author and promoter on behalf of the SDP Club of this kind of resolution in a similar text on Srebrenica, and it did not pass, it did not receive an entity majority. Members of the Party for BiH supported the SDP resolution then, and I remember well at the time the president of the SDA Club Bakir Izetbegović said it is not good to spend this topic here at the House of Representatives. It was, among other things, his statement during the debate on this resolution in the previous term. Of course, I do not deny the fact that MPs from the SDA also supported that SDP resolution in the past term. I'd like to make a mistake, but I don't think anything's changed in four years. I'm afraid nothing has changed and this resolution will eventually have the same outcome. This, what will be the outcome here at the House of Representatives session cannot change what is already a planetary known fact. And the fact that the International Court of Justice, as the UN's highest legal body, ruled that it was done by the entire European Parliament, the US Congress, and there to the parliament of Australia, including neighbouring countries of Montenegro, Croatia and the Serbian Parliament. When will the climate be created to adopt such or similar texts one day and in our country? By my judgment, when a new climate is built in this country that members of one nation will have much more sensitivity to the suffering and suffering of other peoples. At this point, we're a long way from it. At the beginning of those first eight months of the presidency, I don't know if I've mentioned it, but symbolically went to three places – in Jasenovac, bowed to the public Serbian, Jewish, Roma and other victims in Jasenovac, was also in Srebrenica, was also in Vukovar, appeared publicly in connection with kazan, was in Ahmići, Križanci village, etc. Therefore, the position of the SDP Club is clear, we will vote in such a way, and we will have to build in the future a climate that will lead us to such attitudes that, if our ancestors have not lived happily, at least our children and grandchildren will live better in the future. Thank you. The word has a vice-president, Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15222	My colleagues and fellow MPs. I wish this resolution on the agenda had come in a different way, that is, that it came in a way that would give confidence that it could be adopted. However, it is obvious that we have not yet created in BiH such a political climate, such a relationship to our recent past, or our relationship to the present, so that we can adopt this resolution. And that's why everything we show today in relation to this resolution, and our discussions and our vote, can only be our personal relationship to this issue. And I from that point of view, so on this point of the agenda, I approach it in two ways, and I see it in two ways in fact. Regardless of what counterpart Belkić said in his motive, so the promoter, there are no elements of party or personal promotion, let me not trust him and believe that there is and ultimately I do not think that it is illegal to have such motives when proposing certain points of the agenda. 85 On the other hand, we can approach this resolution from another point of view, and this is the need to condemn a crime in Srebrenica that is on the international institution, for which it is in charge, qualified as genocide and every other crime, and thus to join the parliaments of Europe, America, our neighbours, etc., in condemnation, therefore of this crime and every crime, whether it is qualified as genocide or not. I, the fact that I also believe that this crime is sometimes and sometimes manipulated, that a project of victimization of a nation is being done through this crime, again, so to speak, with the goal of sometimes daily policy or some strategic goals in our relations in BiH, but all this is expensive if it is so does not reduce crime and does not reduce the need for that crime to be condemned. And so I came out here to say it openly, it's clear that, here some MPs have clearly said that they will not support this resolution or vote against it, and I don't think in any way these people are less, so to speak, humanely, because I am convinced that all of them, like I do, will condemn every crime and this crime in Srebrenica, and I don't think there's anyone in this room who suspects that there's been a crime against the Bošnjak there, but there was... over the Srbin in Srebrenica as it was against the Hrvat in other places or Srbin, etc. So I just came out here to say that through the vote, I will support this resolution as my personal position, but in no way, so I won't think that others, who will vote differently, are less human than I am. And the only thing I would like to ask the proposer, one thing here in point 5, is not to me if, in some way, he wants to make a contribution, says – expecting more effective cooperation between the investigative and judicial authorities of the former Yugoslavia countries. There are no countries in the former Yugoslavia, there are only countries resulting from the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia. So, I'd be begging for that thing to be fixed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15223	MP Mladen Bosić signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15224	Well, I would like to, perhaps, supplement what Mr. Ljubić said, referring to the fact that behind these resolutions, inevitability in Parliament stands the intention of getting some political points. And Mr. Ljubić said, which I absolutely agree with, that it is not illegal to act politically in this way, but I would add that it is immoral to make political points on the victims. And you will allow it to have almost become a sporting discipline in BiH, and that half of those present at various memorials should be seen because they are politicians, to send a political message to the people, not to mark and mourn the victims buried there. And that doesn't just apply to Srebrenica, it refers to a widespread manipulation of the past war's accidents. And as long as such a situation, while current politicians want the tragedy that was going on at the time, to exploit their political goals, do not expect any participation or support on our part.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15225	The word is from Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 86 Well, I guess everyone here would want us to be in a situation where we don't have to discuss this or talk about it, but that's what it is. The position of the SNSD Club has been brought here on several occasions and we can only contribute discussions, or stenograms from these sessions as a contribution to this debate and we have nothing special new to say. And when you add Mr. Jovičić's discussion to that, you'll get some kind of a whole that's easy to come to terms with how and why it was voted. Because I'm saying, we're not ready to repeat it and nothing's going to change there, of course. But one thing, I'm going to take some personal attitude that, no matter what, here's what we're all repeating that it hasn't, I feel like something's changed. Maybe it's a very small shift to go in some direction. As you have seen here in discussions all the time Serbian MPs are not focusing on Srebrenica but is the focus on human treatment, the same treatment of victims, justice. When I'm talking about a slight shift, I can't help but say that, in a way, for us, the shift in the appearance of the American ambassador in Gradina. The one who wasn't in Gradina, kind of got to know and felt what happened there, and that's what we're looking for. We insisted all the time, it's not mine to interpret, but in some ways I see the shift of the arrival of some who have avoided seeing that horror, and that horror to hear, and said publicly as some centres of power, or some kind of political party, or some kind of media or something like that. I do, it's a little shift, but here's today by some tone of discussion and some kind of announcement, in some direction probably that, if people and their discussions are understood, if what Mr. Jovičić ordered is understood, it can go at some point to go like that, but also to be realistically and soberly talking about the motives of such proposals and to respect these messages and accept that it's past time to make some kind of political shift with these motives. And that's a fact, and it became quite clear. And maybe when we slowly and peacefully add it together, it's possible that there's a shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15227	The word has an MP, Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15228	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'll continue a little bit, maybe here where my colleague Kalabić stopped. So he was talking about facts. And the fact is certain that we have seen a lot of things in the past differently. So, that fact, which seems even more painful to me, is that 18 years after the war ended, we still don't have enough levels of political readiness, courage and responsibility to talk about things that happened more openly, more directly, more honestly, in more detail, etc. I did not experience this initiative by my colleague Belkić as an attempt to make a political point. Yesterday I could see it at this session, the Human Rights Joint Session, when he was as a proposing, at the initiative of one of the colleagues who discussed, that the Human Rights Commission would take on such an initiative, that you reform it, that it should be put as wide as possible and as general as possible so that we could talk about it in a way that it would ultimately reflect the interests and attitude of all of us who live in this country. He took it by hand and expressed his willingness to stay on such a platform and on such an initiative just so that we could discuss this matter, and we as the country where this all happened, had a certain attitude. So, so you tell him that he was actually doing it from some political goals, I don't think that's the case. 87 So I think this is quite correct, legitimate, that it is high time to talk about this more courageously in BiH. Is this the way and is this the form we're discussing, it's something that's legitimate for me to open up the possibility that we're setting it differently, but basically about this subject and our relationship with the past I think we should talk about. So, to talk and the burden of the past define so that we can go on, we should do it for ourselves. I suggested yesterday on the Joint Commission, discussing this subject, when I saw that this cannot be supported, this initiative by my colleague Belkić, I suggested that the Joint Commission on Human Rights organises a thematic session, one of its thematic sessions, so the titled Facing the past and our relationship to the condemnation of crime in BiH. Unfortunately, we couldn't get support for that either. If someone can say, therefore, that there is some kind of political colour in the initiative, that we sit at any level, that yesterday was a discussion on the Joint Committee on Human Rights, and that, in fact, at one such session on all sides, we open our eyes and say actually what something should be, which is the depth in which we should go, what should be particularly stressed, what should be pointed out, etc., I didn't actually see a single reason that someone might be against it, that we're talking about it in such a way. So in fact, we can send a responsible and serious message to the public that we, here 18 years after what happened to us, are ready to make that balance and that past, which burdens us all because we haven't defined it to an honest relationship, that we're actually ready for the sake of our future to put an end to it. I call you here today, you see this is, two vice-presidents laughing, I don't know which is the first I don't know which is the second, I'm not that part of the catch yet, I know that now Mr. Denis Bećirović is chairman of the House of Representatives, which of you is the first that the second one I don't know but I see you both laughing.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15229	You're wasting your time, Mr. Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15230	It doesn't matter I have 6.5 minutes still, I'll use my time one good way. What I'm saying is, I'm going to give you a little bit more work, but I think that, I guess, this position carries more work and more responsibility with it today, and I suggest that we at least agree so much today, so we put in charge of the College and I suggest that we even call on the Joint College to do so, so consider the form and possibility of organising a discussion on this topic: Facing the past and the relationship of the highest legislative body in BiH against the conviction of crime in BiH in 1992-1995. Are you going to do it at that level like you six or are you actually going to, or are you going to borrow a body special or are you going to put a commission in charge, but I am asking that after this session today we don't exactly get out of here and say it – it was an initiative, and that initiative didn't go through, and that's what we're going to do. And we're reopening tomorrow some possibility that, on the other hand, on some other partial, conditionality, this matter is opening up. I think that so much we can, so much we need to have responsibilities, so much we can do to actually show that what we're actually, here's less everyone through our discussions said, so we're sorry for every innocent life lost, every man, etc., but let's just show it institutionally and actually show that our complete willingness to be prepared in one such way to do our job. 88 So, I propose a conclusion – that the House of Representatives, therefore, assign or invite the College, or propose to the College, the Joint College, to consider the form and possibility of organising a discussion on the subject Facing the past and dealing with the condemnation of the crime in BiH by the highest legislative body in BiH. I think in that sense we should have some answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15231	I assume you'll be delivering this to us in writing for the rest of the debate on this agenda. Replica, deputy chairman Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15232	First of all, let me apologize, so we, me and my colleague Živković, had a debate that had nothing to do with the debate of the honourable representative, so I laughed, so it wasn't about the debate. But the replica refers to your proposal. You see how different we are, you suggested that the College or the Joint College propose, now I can't paraphrase you until the end, mostly the conviction of the crime in '92-'95, and what about '91. So you see how much the sensitivity to war is really, according to the victims of war and war crimes is different that we are different in years. Because in '91. There was a crime in the flat. So these are the things I'm saying that at this point, unfortunately, there is no political climate here in BiH to reach a consensus on this recent past, but I agree that we should work on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15233	Thank you. We have three reported replicas. The first is Ambassador Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15234	Here, at the discussion of Ambassador Šepić, let me say that we agree on that. So we're ready, and I believe everyone present here in Parliament, to express their condolences, compassion and grief for all the victims of the last war, whether it's since '91 or '41, or since '92. Because if it's a solution to the problem and you think it's going to contribute to reconciliation, it's not a problem for us. But that's not the purpose of these motions of resolution. A hundred and some thousand, say 105,000 or, here's to not bidding numbers, 110,000 or 100,000 people have died in this war since '92. '95. And you say 200,000, and you say 300,000. Your leader is talking about 350,000. Here, you're talking about 350,000 dead, and the leader of your party, the founder of your party, I've been listening to him on BBC talking about 350,000 victims. Therefore, we are obviously, and our founders obviously cannot agree on these things. But here, we support Mr. Šepić's proposal, we support the proposal to condemn all victims. And here, we will support Mr. Belkić's proposal. 89 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] To condemn all crimes, yes, I apologize, we will also support Mr. Belkić's proposal. Let him cast his weight on only one crime or, instead, write down all the victims of all the nationalities and minorities and all the people who have been killed, here we are going to raise our hand today. Do you agree with that? Therefore, if you wish to invest such a resolution, we will be happy to participate in its assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15236	Replica, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15237	Thank you. And here, to apologize at the same time, means when we discuss in the College we usually discuss some things that are not about discussion or what is said in Parliament, but it is inappropriate for this point, both for this chair and for the MPs to sit down to laugh about anything, because the topic is very serious. But don't you think we have even more serious things in this country than discussing Parliament and organising a special session on history, both the close and the past, don't you think we should sit down all the time to discuss the starting number, discuss getting kicked out of the Council of Europe, discuss Sejdiu-Sejdić-Finac, don't you think that's the topic of the future and not the past? Do you really think that the College should deal with things about organising a special session, we can't even organise this session, and that we need to discuss it now. Let go, we know that every year comes July 11th, we know that this play is done for, we know that we are in, and I didn't want to take a word for it because the MPs didn't have a chance to talk about this, believe me, this is the fifth or sixth time that we're talking about this, and in the stenograms you can read all my discussions about this. And my contribution to this debate today not to answer, but since the request to the College is to organise and to hold a new session to deal with these issues, make a request to the College to deal with much more important matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15238	Comrade Kalabić, this does not apply to you, but I would really like to invite everyone to, I think it is quite correct in this debate that everyone in the name of the Club should present their position. If there are any conclusions that suggest attitudes and that we really don't go into some big replicas. I repeat, never mind, the word has a colleague Kalabić and this was not directed towards him.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15239	You see, with full respect and appeal and attempts to make things go in a certain direction, we cannot dispute or forbid anyone from time to time to time to propose what they think should be proposed. So, and that's why it was my idea, when we were saying today that, 90 if there was, or I was wrong, if there was a certain shift in this whole story, then it was on the trail of what was on the Commission to do in this way, I didn't understand that it was going to be done by the Kolegijum but by some body, to withdraw this resolution, to withdraw the resolution on the trail of Mr. Šepić's proposal, to determine the body that would deal with this as part of the conclusion that he proposed. And then there is room to, without burdening these important and regular activities that should be dealt with by the Parliament for which deadlines have expired. Our bodies have enough time for one reasonable, sober, so that we don't have every 10 days of resolution of one, it can be 50, to understand each other, I mean it's not controversial. Here, we've had one normal discussion today, tomorrow's resolution on resolution, genocide on genocide and everything else, and it can take time and nothing, but if this is a solution, if this is a solution, not a Kolegijum, a motion to make a resolution, to take a break now to pull out, to get that body that we agree to and to do so in some future period on this basis, all the stories, discuss, prepare to face the past and when it is ready to come before this Parliament. Then everyone will come prepared and we'll get what we get. Because we won't stop, with all due respect, from coming forward no matter what anyone thinks about them. And we, in that way, if it is, or we're going to have these repetitions, and I don't know either, and the exact same positions, if, I think it was on the Commission yesterday, I can't speak now in the course of the debate, but that on the trail of this proposal, it could be discussed and that would give a shift to all those today who, sometimes, are going to get in the way of people who are going to vote and they're going to have big comments on all of this, but they're going to vote. But it would make it easier for them, in a way, to help those reserves, which they have in their discussion, to prepare in this way. And if this is a solution to make a move and go that way and take that question off the agenda. Here, if you can, let's do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15240	Replica, Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15241	Here, one of our colleagues mentioned before, so we have a lot more important work to do than actually hire anyone to work. If you ask me directly, I think that we should accept the initiative of colleague Belkić and put an end to this and then let's work, colleague Živković, doing these jobs that you think we should do. So that's what most of the democratic world has done so far. And I think we can take the team, so we can close that story. So, genocide in Srebrenica, it can't be compared to anything else. And tomorrow any debate when we do, so we won't be able to minimize what happened, genocide in Srebrenica, so that debate, it can also produce, so the genocide in Srebrenica is treated as such and all the other crimes that took place in BiH. So in this context, it makes sense, and in this context, such a debate, however organized we are, would be the result and the whole outcome of such a debate eventually again. So, the greatest genocide that has happened in Europe since World War II can't ultimately be ruled out by anything else, with nothing else, so to speak, but I think, in that context, every other crime should also be treated and every other crime should be condemned. And my initiative went that way and I think in that context we can, so we can make a positive move. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15242	Replica, Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15243	I don't think you should play with us on this serious thing. Not to use any harder words. That whisper from the bosses means you've audited it, you could think about it in the hallway. You could have thought about what you suggested in the hallway. Yeah, yeah, obviously by their grades you flew over, but that's your problem. That's your problem. And that's what it is, we have a 10-fold situation like that, when someone talks as human as they think they should, and then those who insist on old divisions and old trenches whisper and say, "No, no, no, you're out of line, you're flying, you come back, you can't do that." Here, you had support. Now you've revised it, now you've brought it all back, and now we're where we are. Here's Mr. Bosić and I were ready to support it. Of course we're not anymore. This is the kid's scam she is, so let's play a little bit, and I fucked up. I mean, it won't work that way. Some other thing you can do, but not on this one. Not on this one. I was with one of the BiH Party MPs on TV and 10 minutes before the end of the show, you know, he says come on, I forgot about this genocide. Come on, watch me diaspora, he says, "Please give me a break." I'll do this. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Today's debate has shown that we're in another time. And that we should treat it differently? And we showed it. And in your discussion I've seen space to move, that in some way, here's one thing where we've been buried in these things long ago, it's an ugly word to say trenches, but call it what you want, that in some way, here you are now auditing it. But good, and that's your right. Here, we're done with this story, we're giving up on this proposal because it's gone and gone and I don't understand what you wanted.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15244	A colleague of Kalabić ended up with another replica. Second replica, MP Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15245	Short, therefore, drago, I'm not a man who may be acting by the principles by which you would function if someone whispered to him and then he audited something like that. It's true that Šefik and I were something else, as it is called, communicating, but my proposal is the same as it was before. Maybe in the extra part, I just expanded a little bit and explained what each discussion would actually produce. Only if you think you're such geniuses so that after such a debate we can find out ourselves that what the court in The Hague has established and all possible democratic countries of the world have confirmed, that we now find some way to actually deny it or how we're going to question it. Of course that would be impossible and any discussion would ultimately mean one such attitude. And one such attitude and relationship, therefore, would ultimately have to include in that sense a broader context in which, apart from the confirmed genocide in Srebrenica, all other crimes that took place in BiH would be condemned. And I think that's the original proposal, and here's the one that's called, as you said, complemented as well. He's not giving up on each other, so that's the same thing. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15246	And there are two more discussions left. The word has a letter from Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15247	I thank the chairman. Here, let me remind you that I am one of the promoters of this, is as agreed by my colleague Belkić and I. My colleague Belkić gave the opening letter, and I didn't think I should start advertising, but I have no intention of being, of giving the final word. But here, let me, at the end or at the end, thank all of you who participated in this and who will have the opportunity to read about this proposal when voting. Everyone's got their own attitude, everyone's going to express their point of view. Thank you to all those who have debated today and in the way they have discussed, educationally, usefully, for both us and for this assembly of Parliament and for the future calling of Parliament. Let me also mention that I fully agree with part of my colleague Bosić's discussion. And here, let me really absorb it – it is immoral for victims to have a problem, a quote completed. A colleague Bosić said this in a discussion. I really think it's immoral for victims to have a problem. And here, let me also mention that this bidding that something in this resolution, in this document is not good, that it might be a little bit better, that someone else should take it under their authority, supplement it, etc., we don't dispute anything, we suggested this. I don't know if there are other proposals in the parliamentary procedure. When there are other proposals in the context of today's discussion, and everyone will once again have a chance to read all about it, whether this proposal is the best, whether it could be better, etc., we have no other. Here, we perfect it every time we propose it, and we will propose it to us, or someone else, in the next councils of Parliament until once enough hearing and atmosphere is created for something that happened, for one valuable system, for one indication of something. And whoever puts a head in the sand can't deny some things. It can be called to someone else's founders, etc., but some things got their own verification and we don't need to prove to each other here, we're MPs. The evidence is where it's supposed to be. The courts are where, they judge where they should be judged in the way they are judged, etc. I must say that already from the same colleagues and colleagues, with whom I sit and in this assembly of Parliament as in earlier, I have listened and listened to the qualifications of some, I will not now talk about graduation, is it, now, is the atmosphere different than two years ago, year, two, five etc., but to qualify something like this for daily political purposes, that it is in the context of party and other motives, as is said here, that tragedy is used in the function of its own political goals and so on. We've already been there, because if we happen to identify the time when our proposal comes in the process with some elections, and we're always in some elections, in some pre-election campaigns, if you won't just attribute something to someone – it's for pre-election purposes. Really hard and hard to deceive, say in the function of the show as July 11th approaches. It's really hard to digest. I also have to say that, for all that's behind this, what someone with a constant suggestion like this wants more, and of course always that something a little different might be more acceptable to someone. Let's be clear, really, and you all tell yourself that, nobody really has to say it in public or talk about it or waste time on it – is there a will to show this Parliament once in a way that needs to be seen? It does not remain, apparently, in this, and in this meeting, and in 2013 in May the month still does not exist. There may be some time in the future, but 93 do not use arguments that are used as they are heard today in the discussion. You don't have to discuss it at all if you want to, so just read it when you vote. But don't follow your conscience the way you do it. Because I'm not accusing anyone, but it's hard to digest what's been said here today, some of it all.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15248	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15249	I listen to you, I really don't refer to anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15250	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15251	Well, I'm not sorry. But let's say the proposals that have been heard, in this sense and that the discussion is opened, etc., no one is slowing it down, but before us is the resolution that's on the agenda today, let's end this with regard to the resolution, let's see how everyone is going to show up, and let's not argue that someone else has the same initiative, the proposal to open the debate, and we even consider it useful, etc. But I would also like to remind you, we have been proposing and the Law on the Prohibition of Crimes, Genocides, etc., where absolutely no specific case has been mentioned anywhere. Absolutely nowhere, not one, he referred to all the crimes, the victims of the war, etc., so even then they heard the arguments that are still being heard. So it was then said that the provisions of this law, penalties, sanctions, etc., should enter the Criminal Law, so when we changed the Criminal Law couldn't then in Criminal Law, there was no support, etc. So there's still no will, either in this way or in some other or similar way, etc. And here, that's what we need to count on. We're counting, we're sorry, I have to say we're really sorry that it's still not there, which there is no support yet, it's not that time. Are we going to open a story about this or open a story about a resolution or is this the European Parliament that adopted today by the European Parliament. I don't really know, whenever you want, we're ready to work things out. We've been initiating life stuff for two years to talk about the economic problem, so we don't have it on the agenda. But let's not use in our relationship to these things some, call arguments or someone who sees in the background, what the writer wanted to say, or what evil is behind Behrooz's intentions, whether they're good or bad, the Berizov and mine, right, etc. I'm sorry, I have to say again I'm sorry the time hasn't come yet. The time has come in both neighbouring Serbia and Croatia and Montenegro, and the time has come in Western Europe. There are times in various destinations for various reasons, but I just want to mention that I'm sorry that the time has not yet come exactly where it should come from. But here, I can express hope that he will come, I guess he will come sometime. Anyway, here's another one in the end to thank you all and to say that today's discussions were both educational and useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15252	The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15253	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I do not think that the promoters of this Resolution have directed with the aim of providing any political points. I think it was done because of the civilization obligation BiH has to manifest itself according to the case listed in this resolution. And we don't need to put up with Resolution and today's debate to qualify as trying to get points of any kind. I think the truth is different, that it's true that it's a shame that BiH, the country in which this happened, has not yet reacted in the way almost all of the democratic states of the world have reacted. Even Serbia has brought resolution. They did not have the strength to say -- genocide, they said in Srebrenica, but Srebrenica was mentioned, as the International Court of Justice of The Hague and The Hague tribunal naturally defined in several individual verdicts. The resolution submitted by our distinguished colleagues and colleagues contains everything that has been spoken of here today. We, respected colleagues and colleagues, will one day have to bring, or there will come a time when someone will bring a resolution in BiH that will faithfully describe and reflect the position of what happened in BiH, here since the 1990s, since '91. '95. A year. So, it'll come someday. So the key word for it, or the words for it, is truth and justice. I think this resolution reflects everything we could hear today. The colleagues wrote in recital 1 that the Parliamentary Assembly, starting with the goals set in the BiH Constitution and the desire to achieve these goals, strongly condemns the crime of genocide against Bošnjak committed in Srebrenica in July '95. A year. Article 2 gives thanks to the European Parliament for such a resolution. Article 4 states that the Parliamentary Assembly expresses contempt and disgust over all war crimes and violations of international humanitarian law committed in BiH, expecting investigative and judicial authorities to effectively prosecute and prosecute those responsible for the crimes, responsible perpetrators. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly expresses contempt and disgust over all war crimes and violations of international humanitarian law committed in the area of the former Yugoslavia, expecting effective co-operation between the investigative and judicial authorities of the former Yugoslavia countries. And not to read any more. So everything that's required is highlighted here. And if there is the strength to do that, to do that, if there is no strength, we can realize that there is still no, unfortunately, willingness to do this in BiH. Any resolution or any resolution that would exclude or in any way generalise the July '95 genocide. the year in Srebrenica, established by the International Court of Justice in The Hague, and several UN tribunal verdicts, as well as the rulings of the BiH Court, so the Rezluci without it, without particular emphasis on that, which would generalise things, is unacceptable for us. So the resolution in which the genocide will be highlighted, but everyone after that, the crimes, and that's what this resolution has here. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15254	Thank you. So we're on the 11th point of the agenda. Today we have a total of 25 points of the agenda. I think that both the promoters and the debaters had the opportunity to express their views correctly. And if you agree, let's hear Mr. Jovičić's replica and conclude the debate. Here you go. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm going to rephrase everything here, but this is a topic I don't know what to call this, not a replica, but here's an explanation. Dear colleague Džaferović, you've told the best – sometimes the time will come. I am in the first part of the discussion, and whenever this topic was, he said it wasn't now, and I repeat to you, it's not now, and I don't know in the next assembly of Parliament, I won't be set up anymore, someone else will be, I don't know if it will be then. I don't know, it's not time. Now, what you call yourself civilized, so am I less civilized if I say so publicly, and I repeat, I will not support this for any more reason. The history of war has not been clarified. Second thing, you're... you're a short-circuited recording of... the past. No one will ever have one like me because I've experienced it. The others will have from their own corner where they've been, and the third one will be from someone else. And I don't want to politicize with this. And I don't attribute this to any party leader, no leader, no political party, no people. But as a man, I tell you, as a sacrifice, you will not conquer anyone when the resolution is adopted today. We're just gonna cause a new break-up, new riots, new misunderstandings. Because if one resolution could solve anything, then long ago, many European countries have condemned the communist regime. Why hasn't this Parliament ever condemned communist crimes, what hasn't the strength? And all those countries, to which you and Mr Džaferović and everyone else are calling, have condemned the crimes of the communists from the European Parliament. Why hasn't this Parliament ever had that subject? They'll never have it. So don't ask us about this again and let's put an end to it. I, as friends, beg you, will not receive my support, and I trust my colleagues, not that with me they sympathise my suffering, but that they know the mood from where they come from and who chose them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15256	Thank you. I find that there are no further requests for a hearing within this agenda. I'm closing the 11th item of the agenda. We're moving to agenda 12, Ad. 12. A review of Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's initiative from the 46th session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.03.2013, which reads: "Article 8. I submit the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to the next parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver to the parliamentary procedure the draft law prohibiting the challenge and spread of national, religious, racial and other forms of hatred in Bosnia and Herzegovina." As a competent initiative, the College referred to the Commission of Justice. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on 21/05/2013. The initiative is supported and addressed in further procedure. 96 I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing item 12 of the agenda. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda, Ad. 13. A review of Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's initiative from the 46th session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.03.2013, which reads: "Article 8. I submit the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to the next parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver the draft law on the diaspora of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the end of 2013."
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15260	We can't even go back and say that we're against it for a simple reason, here's except that it's the second oldest Slavic document and it really belongs to it, written in 97 Cyrillic, a place next to Miroslav's Gospel. A country in which the presidency building has stolen a basic document on which the country, the Dayton Peace Agreement, rests, how to preserve such a very serious historical document. And I immediately say that I fully understand the Dubrovnik Archives which before, it seems to me, for what, four years, refused and for 15 days to deliver a copy here at the exhibition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15261	The word is from Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15262	Well, I got a little bit of this transformation, like some others, but I think it's okay, that's a better solution. I actually wanted to use this to problem our general relationship to history, according to historical monuments that they have for some greater for some less symbolic meaning and that reflect the identity or might and should reflect the identity of this country. One of those crucial, crucial things is also the Kulin Ban Charter, of course. Now, the question for all of us, and since my colleague spoke before me, is kind of changing that topic for me that's already open. In a country where a bad relationship is evident, I choose words and use euphemisms, a bad attitude towards history and historical monuments, especially from an early medieval or medieval Bosnian state, and the question of whether to import or bring the Kulin Ban Charter into such a country at all. In the canton, from which counterpart Mehmedović comes, is one for the Bosnian or Bosnian Herzegovina identity, in a historical sense one important locality located in the municipality of Visno in the town of Mile is located. It's about the coronation church of the Bosnian kings. It is necessary to go there and see what is the condition of this coronation church of Bosnian kings, a church in which King Tvrtko, etc., was crowned, so as to see what our relationship to our history is like. And in that light, then we can judge for ourselves whether or not we deserve to actually be looking for what, in normal circumstances, we should be looking for and I should nevertheless, of course, support that kind of request. Earlier, in my last term in the Federal Parliament, I asked a parliamentary question, I initiated it, i.e. to allow a slightly different approach, to this particular issue, but unfortunately this is us, it has not come across the echo. We have, we all see, the obvious cases that we have, at the same time, significant, very significant institutions of culture of the tavors, that they have an unexplained, vague position, unclear sources of income, at the same time we have, all of which I suppose, by the way, sheep and money, we have cases that, to spend huge nights for institutions, or institutions, or bodies that are not, which, by the Constitution, should not be like the Ministry of Culture on a federal level. All we need to do is look at, open the Constitution and see that the area is in exclusive and complete jurisdiction of the county. The Constitutional Court ruled that the ministry is unconstitutional, however, millions and millions of marks are spent on the work of an unconstitutional ministry, instead of focusing on institutions that deserve money and which do not have money. Here, I guess some and this initiative, despite the fact that it will be very far from being realized, serves if anything else we can change this relationship to that history that we all experience in some different ways, but which is part of our common identity. Thank you. 98
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15263	As it went, I would have ruined the Givikt in this House and not this initiative. My colleague Kalabić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15264	Well, I expected the chairman of the Commission, but I have to answer and boast that I had a key impact on reshaping this initiative, because I wanted to vote against it, and I didn't want to vote against it because I had a situation, I don't know how it went in the last session, how it got in the way. This is now a question for both the Rules of Procedure and our right to propose everything and everything and everything must come and how and whatnot. And it's such a funny situation. To save this ridiculous situation, the original version was that Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović and Kulin ban would personally announce themselves and come for the charter. So that wouldn't be funny, to fix this, to make it right. Next, whose charter is it? We've put dilemmas on the Commission. When you come to those people who keep it, will they say who you are? We said before this went public to get someone ready, to tell who it belonged to, who could call on it, how. In order to be discussed with the promoter, it turns out that this belongs to Dubrovnik and that we are looking for it, if they do, we should be given to Dubrovnik and we are not there in any way. I am yesterday, here we are not, as my colleague Franjičević said, in some way against, because it has entered the procedure and I have no objection to the final success of any initiative, but there is a lack of seriousness here when you start to think about the realization, because the first version of the return was, which means that it is ours, that we are returning something that someone illegally alienated, which has gone to some illegal channels and put it back here. And that's why we've been re-forming to see what it's like out there, so if it already has an interest in that initiative and everything else, I think what we in the Rules of Procedure need to be discussed, about the preparation of initiatives, the preparation of preparations for all of this, not to get into this situation. I don't have, I mean, a problem with the promoter, but I think he understands that this initiative is a little unprepared and that we've come into an awkward situation, that the Rus are going to kick us in there and say, what are you coming for, what do you want, whose is that, what are you looking for? You can't do something that's someone's, but if we want to, we have the right to want something for ourselves, we can talk in some way that we want it to be here but not to embarrass ourselves at first. Let's say it's our wish, let's see under what condition we can pay, exchange, yes, in any way. But it's ugly that communication in official documents shows a termology that points to our fundamental ignorance of things and some of the essential relationships they're talking about. And finally, to be honest, I'm missing a lot of things today so I can decide what we're going back to, who we're returning from, who we're returning from, who we're returning from, who we took from, how it ended up and how it ended up being, and in the end it turns out that we and if we get people from Dubrovnik will come and say it's ours. That's the one, and here, with all these other associations that went along with this story, because we're not looking for other things that belong to us and that we should take care of. But, well, I don't dispute the well-meaning of the initiative, and that's why I took part in the transformation, and I don't mind that it ends happily.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15265	And in the end, there's a word and a proposer, here you go. Šemsudin Mehmedović. 99
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15266	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. I thank my colleagues and colleagues who took part in the debate on the occasion of this initiative. However, a little, I must be honest, touched by this discussion of dear fellow Aleksandra. Here we will make one approximation in about 700 years in the BiH Parliament to discuss the return of the Dayton Peace Agreement that has disappeared from the BiH Presidency and probably someone will ask questions – whether it even belongs to BiH. The Dayton Peace Agreement or the Dayton Constitution probably belongs to a Dayton or a state that's been there for 700 years, right, in areas where Dejton is, or, well, it might be interesting for someone for about 700 years. Therefore, if there is a current – I Ban Kulin Bosnian, i.e. ban Bosnian, I give it to the Dubrovčan, etc., the question arises how did all three copies of the Dubrovnik Archives ever come to pass? And by chance this one copy disappeared in an unknown way and ended up where it ended. Therefore, our relationship with our common history or history will not change anyone else to us. So we are the ones who need to initiate a change of attitude towards BiH's history, according to the history of citizens, people, peoples living in these areas. Therefore, I expect here support and therefore have agreed to reshape the text of the initiative. Let's get to some solution, see where, how and how it ended up where it ended. And, of course, because of the stormy history in our space, it happened that all three copies ended up in Dubrovnik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15267	Here, we've heard both the futurological and the historical reference to this initiative. I'm closing the debate on the 14th agenda. We move to 15, __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Opinion? Yes, it's delivered. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15271	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues. I think if we spent our time on this resolution as we did in earlier times, it would certainly have been easier to bring and bring. Namely, what's this about? So it is that BiH citizens can communicate electronically between themselves, between banks, institutions. An example of one we want to go to New York or any part of the globe on the road, so we can set a route on a computer, buy a plane ticket, book a hotel, pay for everything, print the papers in your pocket and do everything and go back. And unfortunately, in BiH, when a citizen comes to the state administration, as I did the other day, I was looking for something just like me in the Municipality of Široki Brijeg, the CIPS, to give the CIPS, so let's not be punished and then, therefore, all of our citizens are so harassed by our administration, and there's no reason for that. And the goal, therefore, is to adopt a resolution in Parliament, because we now have a favourable situation which has, that a draft framework for interoperability has been drawn up by the Public Administration Reform Office. So this draft is just telling us that institutions can electronically exchange information, so set up eGovernment. But since it's such a demanding and complex business of communication that we unfortunately don't have in BiH, it doesn't take so much material resources that we can't handle it. So, it takes comprehensively, even from the level of the state, so make one resolution, that I as a representative would not have worked, I think it's better to do the Council of Ministers, or the Office for Public Administration Reform, because they already know and they can do it practically in a day of two, everything is known what needs to be done, but it takes political will to do this service to the citizens and to make them all more efficient. Because the assessment that it says, I was looking at in this interoperability framework draft so that somewhere it would cost all the levels of government implementation maybe two or three years, the longest if it were, there wouldn't be more than 2% of the budget of all institutions to build these things, but that efficiency would increase as much as 20%, so that's an entirely justified investment. And that is why I propose a conclusion – Let us task the Council of Ministers to draw up the text of the resolution on eGovernment and deliver here to the House of Representatives in order to finally adopt and initiate this procedure. Thank you. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15272	Thank you. Discussion, dear colleague Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15273	Thank you very much. Well, here, I will absolutely support this initiative, but I will return to my parliamentary question, support it the moment when all BiH citizens have electricity in their house, means electricity, and not with my assumption that I started this session today, it means that around 40,000 citizens alone have no electricity, and now you're talking about e-Government. E-Government is a good and great thing in all those countries where people have electricity in their homes. In BiH, so if you take seven villages to invest 40,000 marks in the infrastructure for 17 years, then you will be perfectly clear that they have no roads, no plumbing, nothing. So on one side, we're going to build a spaceship called e-Government, and on the other hand, that people don't know, like I said at one of the previous sessions, they won't know when the war started until someone informs them or 15, 20 days, because they're not at a time today to listen to exactly what we're talking about, because they simply don't have electricity for the simple reason. So, as soon as the electrification in complete BiH is complete, I will support your initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15274	Wait for more and then a replica, or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15275	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15276	Come on, replicated colleague Mladen Ivanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15277	So, by respecting what is said, this is an advantage for those citizens who are equipped, and also for those who are not when he comes from a village of someone, anywhere where there is no electricity in their community, they are the ones who manipulate him from one tent to another, and this would do the same thing, so that everything on one counter in the municipality can be taken out. So, the institution where he asks for his services that he can get in one place without visiting all institutions, that's the key.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15278	Replication response, colleague Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15279	Here, just a quick response to the replica. It is true when they come to their community, but believe that it is less important to them, because when the snow falls, as the winter has fallen and no one has cleaned up 102 40 days, and they can die of appendage, believe it's marginal for them whether they end up in half an hour or two of their jobs in the municipality. So, I'm going to be solid to these people, and I'm going to vote for e-Government the moment they all have electricity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15280	Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15281	Well, I think there are several status mistakes in this initiative. So when it comes to, it's absurd to talk about whether or not someone is in favor of the electronic administration, but to write down a resolution on the establishment of an e-Government. Well, I guess these things are passed laws, so the Law on Electronic Signature is passed, so the law on, as a prerequisite for the Information Society Agency Act, which should bring and control all of this, and then aligns with the EU directives for introduction, as you say, e-Government based on resolution. So don't please, we don't bring a political declaration or a resolution about a document that needs to be legally subdued. You know what electronic signature means, you know what the possibility of his abuse is, and you know how countries, which have much more experience than we do, are fighting against the abuse of electronic signature. So your initiative is, I understand it and respect it, but this, the way you wrote it absolutely cannot be implemented. That's the question, you said it yourself one moment, you say -- that's all the levels of government to bring, and then the next moment you say -- the Public Administration Reform Office should control how, so you've opposed each other's views so much that you've annulled one good idea that you wrote here.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15282	Thank you. Dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15283	Very briefly, the form is one, the essence of another, there may be failures in the form of this, this document, perhaps it shouldn't have called the resolution etc., but in any case, the essence is very important and the SDA Representatives Club will support this initiative for the reason that the electronic administration is actually preventing the good part of corruption in the administration. It means that it does not depend on the will of any commissioner, service chief or administrative worker whether BiH citizens will exercise their right. The e-Government is now preventing this kind of behavior in the administration. Therefore, the SDA Representatives' Club will support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15284	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. 103 We move to the 16th point, also an initiative now by MP Salko Sokolović, Ad. 16. Review of Parliamentarian Salke Sokolović's initiative from the 46th session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.03.2013, which reads: On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I urge the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to discuss and take a position on the validity of the mandate of city council presidents and mayors of the City of Mostar." The Committee responsible for Constitutional Law delivered its opinion on the initiative 21.05. The initiative is not supported, as you saw in the report, i.e. the opinion of the Commission. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, since I've first heard from you, I welcome everyone present in the O.R. I know we're pretty tired, but believe me, this is a very important topic, and here, I'd like to share with you the reasons why I initiated this topic, and also to comment with me on why the Constitutional Commission didn't accept an initiative like this. Namely, I am based on Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, which is precise in his interpretation, sent a parliamentary initiative that the Parliamentary Assembly discusses the request of the city council president of Mostar, I apologize for the parliamentary assembly of BiH to discuss and take a position on the validity of the city council's mandate and mayor of Mostar. As you know, the City Council of Mostar has not been fully operational since 20.11.2012, I believe that through the means of information and terms you have all met, officially, from a letter sent by a high representative to all councilmen in this Council of the City of Mostar. In his letter, the High Representative called that it is not appropriate for a legislative authority to extend its mandate itself, which is the case here with... City Council of 02.11.2013(?) year, but he also instructed the City Council to request an interpretation of the validity of its mandate from the Parliamentary Assembly. So that is why the chairman of the Municipal Council also referred to the Parliamentary Assembly a request for an assessment of the validity of the mandate, as well as my own initiative. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that only in the City of Mostar are municipal elections not being held or that the termology of local elections has been adopted, that we do not have a functional City Council in Mostar, and from that it is possible to conclude that only in Mostar at this moment is citizens do not have a new City Council, and they are in such a way discriminated against all other citizens in the Federation of BiH, and that here they are not guilty of it. I will remind you that this started in a way that the Central Election Commission decided by its decision of 7 May 2012 to postpone the local elections in Mostar City. Following that decision, the Central Election Commission did not, within the deadline of 30 days provided for by Law 104, set a new term for holding elections, nor did it take any legal procedure to ensure the work of the Constitution of the prescribed local authorities, i.e. City Council. So, the Central Election Commission has consciously disregarded the fact and the knowledge that her decision to postpone the elections will leave no new council of the City of Mostar. The president of the City Council, under the authority of the City Council, has asked the Central Election Commission of BiH for an indication of city council status. The Central Election Commission's response was a finding prescribed by the Election Law. We're in Mostar City right now, before I say why my initiative. Here's to knowing all these facts and a few new ones that I'm going to bring forward in the course of the discussion, to ensure the continuity of the government in Mostar City. In fact, at this point in the city of Mostar, we have suspended or suspended legislative authority, and we only have a mayor who works. Here, I urge all of us to return to our local communities, to analyse this situation a little bit and see how our local community would function if we didn't have a municipal council and we have all the power in the hands of the mayor. I don't think it's easy for him to run Mostar City at these times either. He's made a budget, he's got to do budget rebalances these days, he's going to adopt budgets in a month for this year, he's going to make decisions, he's going to split the money. We have, in this period, prepared even two criminal charges down in Mostar, not sent them, talked to the mayor, we understand his difficult situation. On the Constitutional Legal Commission, I was accused by SDP MPs of obstructing the construction of the new Statute in this way. It's a replacement thesis. I said - no, I don't want to do this, or the City Council president's request isn't directed in that way. I want only at this moment until the adoption of the new Statute, i.e. to hold new local elections, the Constitution and the law defined power in the City of Mostar. We have a legal vacuum at this point, we have powerlessness, we have anarchy. I think that the Parliamentary Assembly should be determined by its obligations by adopting an electoral law on this matter. And one more thing, at the time she was suspended or perhaps a mild word, was not suspended, the city council's position in Mostar City was suspended. Mostar is a specific instrument for those who do not know it, the mayor is not directly elected downstairs, he was derived from the City Council, so he received a mandate just like those MPs who lost their mandate. So, from the Council, not only him, but also his advisor and chairman of the Municipal Council. At this point, we have two options to address this situation, meaning either by interpreting the Election Law, we say that because of the continuity of the authorities, city councilors and mayors should be placed in full office or taken away from the mandate and the mayor, that another solution should be sought, that the OHR should eventually be called upon to establish administration, etc. But let us, constitutionally and legally, set this thing up until new elections in Mostar City, establish the continuity of the government in a way that functions and the City Council of Mostar, and that together with the mayor of Mostar, they exercise power in full capacity and that the citizens of Mostar are not at this moment the only people discriminated against in the Federation of BiH, that they had no elections and that they do not have legally elected representatives of the authorities. This is a matter of democracy. Democracy, in my opinion, has been suspended in Mostar City, eliminated from life, all power, I repeat, is in the hands of one man. And for these reasons, I am asking the MPs to consider this situation a little bit, to take into account all these facts that I've been talking about and to make one fair solution through one of the 105 conclusions that I will propose among other things, and this continuity of government by activating city councillors and mayors of Mostar City. I would remind you that one similar, that I did not return to some past, had activity here in the House of Representatives, in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, when, for example, the BiH Constitutional Court allowed the MPs of the House of Peoples to take the initiative of then-chaired Mr Tihić, that their mandates would be valid until the election of new delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH with a reason to maintain the continuity of the government in that part of the legislative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15287	Thank you. What could be a model for us if we don't implement the Constitutional Court's decision and don't change the Election Law, right, next year? Okay, thanks. Replica, dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15288	I'm not going to talk about the point, I've listened carefully to Mr. Sokolović, all the time I'm just thinking, I'm surprised how these in Mostar have reached a consensus on Srebrenica, and I can't reach Mostar, if you've talked more about Mostar you'd better agree, but that's how it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15289	Is this about this agenda point or what? I still haven't concluded the debate and is it the next point or this point?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15290	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15291	So I said you didn't rush into signing up. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15292	I thank the Honorable President. Well, at the beginning, I'll say right away that I support the position and opinion of the Constitutional Commission as competent and I don't think they could have made any other decision, but more for the sake of the public and for the sake of full information on the problem, so here's what I want to keep track of. Mostar's been in trouble a long time because someone made him a city case. This someone is called the Office of the High Representative who is now washing hands of Mostar and now this hot potato, which he... has made, passed on to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. A little tomorrow, Mr. High Representative. Here, you cooked, you solve the problem, now you solve the problem. We are, this is one of the questions, so one of the questions on which there is a Constitutional Court decision, one of the decisions of the Constitutional Court that has not yet been carried out, and I don't see much will or enthusiasm to have it carried out. Another 106 reason why no palitative measures should solve this situation. I am sorry, I sincerely regret all the citizens of Mostar for being imposed on them solutions that are not worth anything else in BiH and for being held hostage not to their own will but to other people's manipulations and decisions. So, I stand up for it, and I will be betting that the citizens of the City of Mostar will be in the same position as the citizens of all other municipalities and cities in BiH, and there will be no problems at all. Then, like others, they will hold elections, choose their mayor directly, have their executive power, local administration and self-government. And be careful, if we're trapped that for all the solutions we don't have a solution on right now, we're taking some paliative measures, maybe today, here's the ad hoc initiative to, I don't know how, solve the issue of single parent number. Let them continue to determine the parent numbers as it has been, regardless of what the Constitutional Court has forbidden. If we can do that, well... people suffer neither guilt nor debt. So, uh, and I agree with those who today, through some other debates, so here I am not going to formalise it, but since I appreciate the self-initiative of our College members, I think it should be a hasty session or at the first session of the next session of the agenda on these issues of implementing decisions of the Constitutional Court, because it is not only issues of non-implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court, but also issues which have a significant impact on the exercise of citizens' rights in Mostar, but also in the whole of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15293	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15294	Thank you. Although I think it's a little inappropriate that I, as a representative who comes from the RS, get involved in problems in the Federation, but unfortunately we're involved, we're involved in this SDA initiative. And I must say that I and my distinguished colleague, Prodanović, at the Constitutional Law, and Professor Kunić, were against this for a basic reason because this initiative is unconstitutional. We cannot say that it is submitted only in accordance with Article 8. I guess we have to, I said that at the session, pay attention to what we're even talking about, what the subject of this initiative is. I'm afraid the gentlemen of the SDA have made a mistake in the address and that you should have solved the problem where it belongs, which is with your political partners in Mostar. And instead of talking there, instead of offering us amendments and additions to the Electoral Law here, you're suggesting that we do not agree anything in Mostar but to extend the power as it suits us. Well, that's the essence of your proposal. Besides, I said, I'm really asking them to take care of, all the colleagues here, what we're proposing, how much of our initiatives are constitutional. The SDA colleagues claimed at the Constitutional Law that their initiatives were constitutional, that it was okay with the Rules of Procedure, that it was up to them to decide. I answered that – okay, and what if the initiative of counterpart Franjičević to declare the third entity comes or if I submit an initiative to recognise the Republic of Serbia as independent here, will that also be in accordance with Article 8. The Rules of Procedure and will the SDA vote for it? They told me they wouldn't. So much for the consistency of the U.S.A. 107
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15295	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15296	Oh, I wanted to, I wanted to listen to all my colleagues, but here's a replica. I told Saša Magazinović that he's an old communist who changes the thesis, I don't know if you were in the Union of Communists, but you're changing thesis. Look, I mean, Aleksandar, if you don't follow what I'm asking for, you have your own fixed idea and you're talking about it, so you're talking about constitutionality, is it the constitutional state of Mostar? Is it now, here you go back to Banja Luka, the City Council has been abolished, only the mayor has all the power, is it constitutional? Well, that's what we have in Mostar. If you followed me closely, I want this legal vacuum, meaning legal vacuum, yes, the electoral law here we will interpret properly, means that the legal vacuum that exists now in Mostar, which produced anarchy and powerlessness, is covered by the activation of the City Council, for which no other instance has made a negative decision that does not exist, except that the high representatives said that they should not extend their mandate themselves. I guess someone needs to extend their mandate, there's no choice, someone's got to say -- there's no choice. But what, what about the new Statute, what about the new elections, how the legislative authority will function, whether the citizens are discriminated against or not? I think that's where we need to discuss and I'm not looking, I'm not asking this initiative to delay the election and not have them. So whoever has to negotiate to come up with a new Statute needs to continue to negotiate, and we need to resolve this issue. And what Mr. Lozančić was saying, with all due respect to his story, means I'll just remind us once, at least you from the RS are always active here when it comes to the protection of Dejton, so I'm in the protection of Dejton, let's just spend it in every annex. So, Mostar's a Dayton category, high representative in 2004, except that nobody discussed it then, he shouldn't have touched Mostar's position. But I didn't want to, just before the Constitutional Court report was discussed, to cook further, did I ask you a question now – did the Constitutional Court have the authority to respond to the change made by the High Representative in 2004? Only this Peace Implementation Commission could do so because it is not a domestic act. So, I've told everything that's important and what we should consider if we want to help citizens, who we always swear to be their representatives, help. Now here in Mostar, tomorrow perhaps in another area of the BiH state. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15297	Nothing, nothing, you have time enough, we will agree very soon when the international community is impartial. Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15298	So, the Federation is a Dayton category too, so every little high representative brought amendments, changed the essence of the Federation. These amendments have never passed at 108 of the Federation Parliament, but it all works. That's all I can think about. And I understand, of course, the good intentions of fellow Sokolović, the situation as it is now in Mostar is not sustainable. The real question is how to get out of it. I do not see any other way, assuming that we all intend to stay within the frameworks of the Constitution and the law, which we have talked about at some other points of the agenda, other than how the most relevant political entities, which have the most influence and which act in Mostar, agree, agree effectively and implement this agreement as quickly as possible. This way, which you Sokolović proposing, with all the best intentions, is not possible because it is neither constitutional nor legal. It is not constitutional because the Constitutional Court said what it said, it is not legal because there is no standoff in the Electoral Law for the extension of the term of office. I'm not going to waste my words on political dimensions, I'm talking about something on the Constitutional Commission, but maybe, with more or less rights, maybe we should talk about it, all the connotations that bond, and our principle, that something is required to be different here because it responds to us and nowhere else, etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15299	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15300	So we really need to replicate fellow Sokolović who asked the question of the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. Right, we always think from the RS that the Constitutional Court is very often coming out of its jurisdiction, but I'm surprised why you're asking us that question. That question should be asked there by those two of your judges who were senior SDA officials by yesterday.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15301	Replica, dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15302	Just this, removing misunderstandings. So, I absolutely support the insistence of every MP to keep an eye on and initiate problem resolution in his constituency, and I absolutely understand the initiative of the respected representative Sokolović. She's unfortunately at the wrong address, that's all the trouble. So, we didn't cause it, we didn't disrupt the Statute of the City of Mostar, we didn't impose a change in the Constitution in the Federation, we didn't make decisions that were unconstitutional, that was assessed by the Constitutional Court, we estimate that they were anti-constitutional, so. And it would be good if the Office of the High Representative instead of transferring the ball to someone else to solve the problem, to bring things into constitutional frameworks. However he brought them into extra-constitutional to bring them into constitutional frameworks. The second model is that in a parliamentary debate, as well as all other decisions concerning... The Constitutional Court, there is a consensus, to come to a solution that will please everyone. So, I don't mind the initiative, but she's not here right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15303	Thank you. 109 Discussion, esteemed colleague Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15304	So here, this initiative is required to take a position on the validity of the city councilors and mayors' mandates. The BiH election law correctly prescribed that the Central Election Commission should give and withdraw mandates, and a point. The mandates have expired in Mostar City, so it's unconstitutional downstairs, a job is being done, and that's clear. And the truth is, what Lozančić said, this is the result of unresolved issues, from the non-resolvement of the Constitutional Court's ruling, from imposing the Statute. And therefore, this is a subject to be taken into account, but I think here in Parliament we can no longer conclude other than that the only one that is taking away, or giving or withdrawing mandates is the Central Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15305	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 17th point, Ad. 17. A statement on Parliamentarian Zijad Jagodić's initiative from the 43rd session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.02.2013, which reads: "I submit an initiative to enable citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to fully monitor meetings of the BiH Parliamentary House of BiH through the state-run TV broadcaster starting from 01.03.2013." I remind you that this initiative was discussed at the 46th session of the House, held on 28.03. when the conclusion was adopted. Should I read the conclusion? You don't have to. In 30.04., BHRT provided information at the conclusion of the House, which you also received. Since the debate is over, we just need to make a statement about the initiative. I'm closing this agenda item. We're going to the 18th point, Ad. 18. Proposal for a decision on discharge of members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15309	In short, I would like to say that the SDP Club will support this initiative and remind me that already part of the SDP delegates at the House of Peoples session, on May 08th of this year, launched a single initiative almost as similar as this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15310	Dear colleague Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15311	Thank you very much. I respect the fact and concern when it comes to the main or most important administration in BiH and how dependent everyone is on it. I think it might be a little smarter, a little wiser, if we pleaded sooner or asked for a report on the work of the Board, so that I could base it on him and then go into this act of the investigative commission. I'm afraid we don't get too much attention - the investigation committee, then, and this is how we have income problems, and maybe in some ways we don't contribute to maybe some people who want to avoid paying taxes anymore. ...see there's some mess, let's keep it that way. Maybe one, here's a suggestion, if there's a consensus about it, we've already done something like this a month ago, and we've all estimated that this was a good move and it was a good method and a good way to go. And maybe it'd be good now. I support ultimately this initiative, but maybe this would be a little smarter. Here, thank you. 111
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15312	Thank you. The word has an emissary, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15313	Thank you. Ma, the SDS MEP club will certainly support this initiative. I think it's good that if we get the report, we'll get the annual report, what my colleague Vrankić is asking for, and that it's good and that this investigation is being launched, because it's precisely for those who would try to hunt something in a blurry way to show that I can't hunt in a blur anymore, that there's something going on here, that there's going to be an internal fight with corruption at the Directorate for indirect taxation. What I would ask the promoters of this conclusion is that, given today, given the other point that we have here and where it has also proved that there are some manipulations in the Directorate for indirect taxation, and these are the former workers of the Republic of Utter Customs, so that they are included through the work of this Investigation Commission, only here in Article 2 to change, meaning, a period to be since 01 January 2004, because they were then damaged, until 2013, if possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15314	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me just say that I was wrong to make a statement about this point when we adopted the agenda. But here, in the break we had at the club we discussed, and o, what Mr. Vrankić has highlighted today as a question, I would suggest that the motioner of this decision, Mr. Kalabić, and if there is a commission like this, I suggest, and of course we support it, I suggest that Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović enter the commission in front of the SDA.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15316	The word is from Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15317	Thank you. I don't have anything special to add except for what I said in the introduction. It may bother me, too, by the name of the Investigation Commission, but he's just as he's been found, perhaps in some way causing it. We don't need to glorify Parliament's position, we're not afraid we've never come up with any... results, so as of now suddenly, I'm not some kind of optimist here. But why is this, although logical and comprehensible, initiative discussed by counterpart Vrankić not acceptable? Because the Management has been reporting so far, and it can report, it is not disputed, but here, if we pass this initiative, the Commission would be able to call on other bodies that are very important for the functioning of 112 administrations, which the Authority cannot influence. So he's here to figure out what the whole story is all about. There's a series of state authorities that's done management and going around the administration with one wall of silence. Let's see, so it can't be management, I don't know, I'm taking now, I'm getting into the essence of the story, and I don't know if it's going to be supported, it can't call the board to SIPA, but... we can. So let's just say, if there's any investigative stores out there, we can't just get involved in these investigative activities, but we can either stop working, or we can't work, or I don't know anything like that. I'm talking about motives why it's not acceptable. So is the court's case. You have a public controversy why some of the processes related to the administration, and they weigh tens of millions of marks, stand for five, six years. So we're asking if this isn't working, to create some positive climate in terms of fixing the overall state and repairing the environment around the administration. This isn't meant now, that someone doesn't interpret, neither do I, the individual. This is where this environment is supposed to be, because it's just gotten worried about the drop in income. We're not accusing anyone, but it's a fall in income, it's a record. And when you add everything that's been going on, so it's up to us to try to explore it, the best thing to do is that, and the result and work of that commission can be created through certain instructions and through everything else. And we accept, so as far as the term of office is concerned, too. Don't expect, we know how we've been going on other committees, nor should this commission turn into some kind of, I don't know, ex investigative... but simply according to the previous. I wish for results like it was an investigative commission, we've had failed investigative committees but we've had successful ones, like those CEM licenses, since then the situation has been arranged, arranged, much better than it was. And let's say that commission gave it, some of them didn't, so here it is. We think this is the best way and this isn't directed in any way at all, but simply to give our answer to everything that's going on around the administration. I accept, I said, this deadline for the commission's mandate.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15318	.../Shortly Interrupted Recording/... We're going to the 20th point, Ad. 20. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and other measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina At yesterday's session in a different text than the House of Representatives adopted this Bill proposal and immediately appointed three members to the Joint Commission. We've also appointed three members. The proposal of the enlarged College is to name MPs Darko Babalj, Mirsad Đugum and Zvonko Jurišić. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate on the 20th agenda. Moving to the 21st point of the agenda, 113 Ad. 21. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives in the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Act
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15321	Well, since the legislators of this law are three MPs from the House of Representatives, so Lozančić, Belkić and Majkić, I would ask that these MPs remain also for text alignment. So, someone new until he gets into the contents of what the writer was about to say, I don't know what the House of Peoples has changed, but I really think that we who are the legislators of the Law should bring the law to an end. ...if the College insists on it, but... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15322	Is there anyone else reporting for a debate within this agenda? I'm closing the debate on the 21st agenda. Before we move to item 22, I suggest that the House declare itself to bring together the debate on points 22 to 25 of the agenda because it is a matter of giving consent to ratifying agreements and contracts. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Vote now. I realize we've accepted this proposal, so we have the necessary and general and entity majority. We'll bring together a debate on all these agreements. Ad. 21. - 25. Granting consent for ratification of agreements and contracts You have received opinions from the Commission responsible for external affairs. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're taking a 30-minute break. So it's 6:15, we vote 18:45. 114 __________(?) Half-seven.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15326	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15327	It's an ex post adjustment. He's taking over my methods. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Senad Šepić. And that conclusion was delivered to you, there's no need for me to read it. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I agree that the proposal for the conclusion of MEP Šepić received the necessary general majority – 22 for, 9 against, 5 abstentions, but not the entity majority. In the second round, okay? Yet later, here is the work of a third member of the College. We now move to the 8th point of the agenda – BiH's Human Rights Institution Special Report and the complaint of workers of the former Republika Srpska Customs Administration of the Republic of Serbia and Customs Service of the Brcko District of BiH in August 2010. We are voting on the adoption of the Report with the opinion of the committee responsible and the conclusion contained in it. You got that conclusion and you got the opinion so there's no need for me to read it. 117 Please prepare. Vote now. So we have the necessary and general and entity majority – 28 for, 0 against 7 abstentions. I find that we have adopted a report with the opinion of the committee responsible and the conclusion contained in it. We also have within this agenda and the conclusion of MP Beriz Belkić, related to this report, from last session. Do I need to read it? Yes, it is. A special report on the non-execution of the BiH Constitutional Court, the BiH Court of Justice, the Supreme Courts of Entity and the Court of Appeal of Brcko is required from the Ombudsman's institution. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I find that this proposal has received the necessary general majority, but there is no necessary entity. Are we going to the second round right now or what? We'll go straight to the second round if the third member of the College agrees. Second round of voting. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I understand that the proposal for the conclusion of Beriz Belkić was given in the second round by the majority, i.e. there is no 2/3 against, so this conclusion was accepted. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2012. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We've already moved on to this order, come on, it's nothing, you're not on time, but it means you're looking. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15334	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15335	My colleague Ljubić?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15336	No microphone 120 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15337	We're going to the second round right now. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. So in the second round, we have 11 against the RS. The initiative did not receive the required majority, therefore it was not accepted. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Considering the initiative of MP Denis Bećirović from the 46th session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.03.2013, which reads: "Article 8. I am submitting the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with the next parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver the draft law on the diaspora of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the end of 2013." We're voting on the initiative. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find the initiative has won the general majority but not the entity. It's an ex post adjustment. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Considering the initiative of MP Šemsudin Mehmedović from the 46th session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.03.2013, which reads: “Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives are launching an initiative to return the Kulin Ban Charter to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask the BiH Council of Ministers to initiate the procedure for the return of the original copy of the Book of Kulina Ban from St. Petersburg, Russia, Bosnia and Herzegovina." We're voting on the initiative. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find the initiative has won the general majority, but there is no need for entity. We're going to the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find it in the second round that there was no need for the entity majority of the RS entity, so we did not accept this initiative. We move to the 15th item of the agenda – Considering the initiative of MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović from the 46th session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.03.2013, which reads: “In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I launch an initiative to adopt a Resolution on the establishment of eGovernment." We are voting on the initiative, i.e. we are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Mr Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, who reads: The Council of Ministers of BiH is tasked with drafting within 30 days the text of the resolution on the establishment of the e-Government and delivery to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives for adoption. 121 Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that this conclusion has received the necessary general majority but not the entity – 23 for, 9 against, 3 abstentions. Shall we go straight to the second round? Second round of voting. Please prepare to vote now. I find that in the second round of voting, this conclusion has not been reached by the majority required, so there is no entity majority. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – Considering the initiative of MP Salke Sokolović from the 46th session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.03.2013, which reads: On the basis of Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I urge the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to discuss and take a position on the validity of the mandate of city council presidents and mayors of the City of Mostar." We're voting on the initiative. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that this initiative has not passed – 9 for, 25 against, 2 abstentions. We move to the 17th item of the agenda – Statement on the initiative of MP Zijad Jagodić from the 43rd session of the House of Representatives, held on 28.02.2013, which reads: "I submit an initiative to enable citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to fully monitor meetings of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives through the state broadcaster from 01.03.2013," (the initiative discussed at the 46th session of the House, held on 28.03.2013.). We're voting on the initiative. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. 26 for, 6 against, 3 abstentions. We don't have the necessary entity majority. Shall we go straight to the second round? It's an ex post adjustment. We should have also voted on the conclusion of our colleague, Fazlić, but we will wait for the outcome of this initiative to come forward then. We move to the 18th point of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance of BiH. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. 122 I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority, that we have accepted this proposal – 33 for, 0 against, 2 abstentions. We now move to the 19th point of the agenda – Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to identify possible irregularities and abuses and conditions in the BiH Direct Taxation Directorate – Proposers: SNSD Club MPs. We vote on the adoption of the conclusion and then, let's see, we vote on who the members of this Commission are. A total of 7 is proposed, right? Can we unite the vote on both the conclusion and the members? [[Common discussion]] First, let's vote on the conclusion. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I find that the conclusion has been given both by the general and entity majority – 33 for, 0 against, 3 abstentions. Now we move on to proposals for seven members of this committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15339	I suggest Mr. Dragan Vrankić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15340	A colleague of Magazinović?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15341	Business intervention. I think that so far we've worked in a way to conclude and show the will to form a commission and then at the next session to write a decision where the clubs will delegate. And so at the next session, we make that decision. That's how we've done it before. So that we don't bid names now and some parties object because they didn't put their names on, to do so with a decision at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-23-0.u15342	Okay. We can treat this as the position of your promoter. Should we vote on this conclusion or enough, we have a conclusion, we will implement this procedure in the next period. We move to the 20th item of the agenda – The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We vote on the appointment of MPs Darko Babalj, Mirsad Đugum and Zvonko Jurišić as members of this commission. The proposal is, therefore, unanimous with the extended college. 123 Please prepare to vote. Vote now. We have the necessary and general and entity majority – 33 votes for, 0 against, 1 abstention. We move to the 21st point of the agenda – Appointing three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the same text of the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Anti-Corruption Agency and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. We vote on the appointment of MPs Dušanka Majkić, Mirsad Mešić and Niko Lozančić as commission members. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority – 33 votes for, 0 against, 2 abstentions. I now put the motion to vote on points 22 to 25. We're making a statement in the package. Please approach the vote. Vote now. I find that this proposal has received both the necessary and the general and entity majority – 34 for, 2 against, 0 abstentions. We now vote on points 22 to 25. – Giving consent to ratify agreements and contracts. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entityal majority, that we have given consent to ratify agreements and contracts – 32 for, 0 against, 3 abstentions. I hereby conclude the 48th session of the House of Representatives and note that the next session is scheduled for 06 June 2013. Thank you. Session completed at 7:10 p.m. 124
