ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13606	Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 42nd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of NGOs, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The absence was justified by representatives Emir Kabil, Nermin Purić and Mirza Kušljugić, and MP Asim Sarajlić announced he would be late, as well as a member of the College of Mr Becirovic. According to the information service, the session is attended by 33 MPs. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the change and addition of the session agenda, I would like to note that we added to the agenda: point 3. A request by representative Saša Magazinović to consider the Bill on the Completion of the Law on the Basics of Transport on Roads to Bosnia and Herzegovina under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-13 of 14.02.2013. Point 12. The appointment of a member from the House of Representatives in the Interresor Working Group for the Construction of the Law on Political Parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Ministry of Justice, number: 01,02-34-1-186/13 of 06.02.2013. Point 20. Granting consent to ratify the Security Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway, No 01,02-05-2-198/13 of 08.02.2013. The previous agenda was removed from point 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Institute for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-47/12 of 28.11.2012. (second reading) It was removed at the request of 2 of the Constitutional Commission because a technical error was observed after a session of the Committee in the military amendment that did not comply with the Single Rules for the Making of Regulations in BiH institutions and all members of the Committee were informed of. Point 11. The report of the Joint Committee on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters shall be downloaded at the request of the Joint Committee because no session of the Committee has been held. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I find that the 42nd session of the House has the following: Agenda 1. Approval of the minutes of the 41st session of the House of Representatives; 2. Representative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. A request by representative Saša Magazinović to consider the Bill on the Completion of the Law on the Basics of Transport on Roads to Bosnia and Herzegovina under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-13 of 14.02.2013; 4. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on a proposal for a anti-minor action law in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-39/12 of 11/09/12. (legal in second reading) – a delayed statement at the 41st session of the House, held on 31.01.2013; 5. Proposal for a property management law temporarily and permanently withdrawn in criminal proceedings before the Court of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-54/12 of 28.12.2012. (first reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-13 of 04.01.2013. (first reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-213 of 09.01.2013. (First Reading); 8 / 8 Proposal for a law on refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, displaced persons and returnees – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-3/13 of 10.01.2013. (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-4/13 of 15.01.2013. (first reading); 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Azail and Ethics, Law No 01,02-02-1-513 of 22.01.2013. (first reading); 3 11. The appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the ranking of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, number: 01,02-34-1-1374/12 of 13.12.2012. (scheduled statement at the 41st session of the House, held on 31.01.2013).; 12. The appointment of one member from the House of Representatives in the Interresor Working Group for the Construction of the Law on Political Parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Ministry of Justice, issue: 01,02-34-1-186/13 of 06.02.2013; 13. Consideration of the extension of the term of office to a member of the Management Board of BHRT, material of the Secretariat of the Management Board of BHRT, No: 01,02-29-127/13 of 25.01.2013; 14. Consideration of MP Mirsad Mešić's initiative from the 32nd session of the House of Representatives, held on 19 July 2012, which reads: "I propose the BiH Parliamentary House College to place a point on the agenda of one of the meetings in September 2012 – Information on the fate of the easily-deprived goods seized in the administrative procedure, i.e. in connection with the infringements committed by the BiH Immaculate Taxation Authority’; 15. Consideration of the initiative of MP Denis Bećirović from the 40th session of the House of Representatives, held on 03.01.2013, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH'), No. 33/06, 41/06, 81/06, 91/06, 91/07, 87/09 and 28/12), I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to prepare appropriate legal solutions for the establishment of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Environment Agency in 2013’; Review of the initiative of MPs Beriz Belkić and Šefik Džaferović, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH'), No. 33/06, 41/06, 81/06, 91/06, 91/07, 87/09 and 28/12), we are delivering an initiative to include in the agenda one of the next meetings of the House of Representatives of the agenda item – Analysis of the current course of implementation of the Animal Protection and Wellbeing Act’; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the IPA financing agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border cooperation programme – Serbia under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2011, issue: 01.02-05-2-165/13 of 04.02.2013; 18. Approving the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission relating to the Horizontal Nuclear Safety Programme and radiation protection under the 2011 Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, No: 01,02-05-2-166/13 of 04.02.2013; 19. Giving consent to ratifying Appendix 1. The financing agreement relating to the state programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina — Part II, according to the IPA component of transition assistance in strengthening institutions for 2009, number: 01,02-05-2-167/13 of 04.02.2013; 20. Approval to ratify the Security Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway, No 01,02-05-2-198/13 of 08.02.2013; 4 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Implementing Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Romania on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the reading of persons staying without authorisation, No. 01.02-05-2-309/13 of 03.01.2013. So we move to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 41st session of the House of Representatives You've won the 41st session record. Any objections? I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Representative questions: (a) Comments on answers received
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13609	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. 5 Here, I have received an answer to my question where at one of the sessions I asked a question concerning the infection of corn with aflatoxins. I have to say that I first received one answer from the Plant Protection Agency, which appeared inconclusive, but later I received a reply from Mr. Director Sead Mačkić. The answer is summed up, clear, and I'm satisfied with the answer. What I'm not satisfied with is that I have a feeling that we're not 100% safe and safe when it comes to food, that there aren't enough control measures and that it doesn't appear in the public and the media, it seems to me, that we don't ask the question here, that some things go past this. Secondly, I think there should be quicker reactions when it comes to infected, or milk that is under suspicion and so on. I don't think it's necessary to wait for something to happen, but to withdraw all that milk, and it's done these days, ask Bog how much of it has been spent and consumed on the BiH market. This only speaks of much, that it should be a much more responsible relationship between the Agency and the institutions working on food safety and working to protect the health of the BiH population. So more caution won't hurt us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13610	Thank you. We don't have any more comments. Moving to b) New Agents' Issues Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13612	Mr. Chairman, interlocutors and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I have one parliamentary question addressed or referred to to the BiH Council of Ministers and the question is – What activities does the BiH Council of Ministers intend to take in order to implement the BiH Constitutional Court's ruling number: U:1/11 of 13/07.2012 and concerns issues of state property. The ruling confirmed that the regulation of state property issues is solely in charge of BiH institutions and that property that reflects the statehood, sovereignty and territorial integrity of BiH, as well as property that is in the hands of the public authorities and serves it for the exercise of the government. I think this issue must be paid due attention by passing appropriate legislation at BiH level. I've never heard anything done on this plan until now, even though it's been more than seven months since the verdict. This is written in the written text of the MP's question that I'm going to submit and now I'm just going to add two more sentences. I think that the Council of Ministers must include prominent professors of civil and constitutional law in BiH and judges dealing with civil law of the Supreme Courts of Entity and the Court of BiH. Here, therefore, in this group that will prepare and address 6 of this issue, this is a very important and important issue, it is necessary to include all the brains that BiH has in order to properly respond to the requirements of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13613	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13614	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests. I actually have one representation initiative. In accordance with Article 8. I am taking the initiative from the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives to discuss obstacles and opportunities for investment in BiH, and to prepare the BiH Council of Ministers for the debate. Namely, this is the most closely related to the employment of unemployed workers in BiH, and by creating an investment environment in BiH, it is an opportunity to actually make a thorough analysis of the investment, i.e. the opportunity to invest in BiH, and if there are obstacles to seeing what they are, what they are and who are responsible for removing them, and to create an action plan to remove such obstacles. So, here, I'm putting this initiative in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13615	Thank you. Dear representative Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13616	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I am already returning on several occasions to one issue that is our obligation, that is, BiH's commitment from the European Partnership and we know that BiH has voluntarily accepted the criteria, i.e. the conditions it should meet on the road and which are very, which are not political in nature but are related to something that particularly entangles us in BiH. It is known that the Law on the Environment of BiH has been prepared, that it has been working on for several years and that there are several versions of this law that, in the three years I have been sitting here in Parliament, no version has ever come. And I know it exists. The NGO has discussed this, conclusions have been made, but this has never reached Parliament. The law has been drafted, a lot of efforts have been made and a lot of the resources and resources provided by the international community. We finally had a questionnaire that came in last year to see how this area works. That's why I'm asking, from this domain, a few short questions and asking for clear answers from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. 7 - Why is it still not in the parliamentary procedure of the Environmental Act? - What consequences for BiH have so far produced the lack of the Environmental Law? - Is it possible that the lack of the Environmental Law can produce negative consequences for BiH in the coming period? And - How correct is it that it is possible to overcome the need for the adoption of environmental laws and to form environmental agencies in both entities without the existence of a framework, i.e. a state environmental law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13617	Thank you. Dear Representative Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13618	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've asked a very... question to our Council of Ministers. Still all shaken by that last terrible event asked by the Council of Ministers – What will one of the largest authorities of this country do with its ministries to finally and definitely, at least never again occur such terrible murders as this last one that has astounded us all? But in this regard, I ask the question to all of us sitting here, asking every citizen, every citizen of BiH -- my people, what have we done to our children, how have monsters been created by children who should be picking flowers and not killing people? Is it really time to do something? Has the juvenile delinquency really grown so much that it amazes not only our country but the countries around us? If such terrible crimes were committed by adults, the world would be startled, especially when it comes to children. Is it possible that we created such children? And this isn't the only case. Remember very well, not only from little Denis and burning in the public place of a woman and everything else I don't want to mention, but unfortunately I do. What will make us smart is that all our institutions and all our organisational systems in this country begin to save their own children from this fierce future. Guys, we can sacrifice everything, but should we sacrifice children? I completely understand, all of us, who stayed here, came out of a terrible war, all of us survive different stress and trauma, poverty is obvious, people are hopelessly disappointed, many don't know what to do with their lives. But people, don't forget we're people, even an animal takes care of its offspring. And in the most difficult situation, no mother, no father will sacrifice his child, but if he lets it become what they have become, then he knowingly sacrificed it. Let's stop it, please. This is one human appeal. I'm both father and grandfather and I believe that many understand. I don't have that much power to do, but by appealing to all of us sitting here, and I hope that some high-priced journalist will at least publish part of this as an appeal, as the wish of a grandfather to protect every grandson in this country from becoming a monster.). Please listen to me. Apropo of all this our Club Alliance for a Better Future will prepare amendments and additions to the Law on juvenile delinquency, I hope you accept that. Thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13619	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13620	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, guests and the media, I welcome you all together. I received a response from the Privatisation Agency to the question asked three months ago, asking for information regarding the recapitalisation of the company d.d. Energopetrol Sarajevo, in which I wanted to know if the capitalisation plan, i.e. the recapitalisation plan, was realised, in which extent, when, where and how. However, since that answer, which I received, was not complete for me because he did not give the information I asked for, this time I am asking a parliamentary question to the Federation of BiH government with a question – Is the majority owner of the company Energopetrol d.d. Sarajevo fulfils the assumed investment obligation of 150 million marks within that deadline or not? And if it is from where, when and where is it invested, with an explanation? The second question concerns, i.e. I refer to the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which reads – When is it possible to expect the activation of the Annex A negotiation process of the Ex-SFRJ Convention on Mobile Military Property? And the third parliamentary question to the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and to the competent entity ministries that have read – What has been done so far and what is planned to do in this year with regard to renewable energy sources in their area of competence, with reasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13621	Thank you. Honorable representative Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13622	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers and guests. The campaign "One Billion Stands Up" takes place today simultaneously in 190 countries of the world with more than 15,000 organisations and individuals among whom government members and parliaments and prominent public figures are involved. As a representative in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives, I join billions of those who stand up today against discrimination and violence against women and girls and I ask the question of the head of the most people in BiH, the municipality of Novi City of Sarajevo, Semir Efendić and seek an answer in written form – What did the chief think when you said, I quote, that sexuality is a completely wrong basis for political organisation and 9 can only bring harm, and especially for women who, through such organisations, wash their brains to the point that they are no longer capable of normal socialization with the rest of society", the conclusion of the quote. As you have not found yourself necessary, I invite you to apologize to all the responsible organised and conscientious women in BiH who have done this serious insult. I remind you that our country is the first country in the region to adopt the Law on Gender Equality in 2003. All forms of discrimination, including acts of gender-based violence, sexual harassment and gender-based harassment, are prohibited by law. In addition, acts of violence based on sexual harassment and gender-based harassment are defined as crimes, which is also in line with international standards in the field of gender equality. Under the applicable laws on criminal proceedings in BiH, BiH citizens and citizens have the right to report the execution of acts they consider to have the elements of these crimes under the Law on Gender Equality. Out of all of the above, the elected official was uninformed that a mechanism of protection against gender-based violence, sexual harassment and gender-based harassment was established in BiH, and that protection and sanctioning could also be achieved through criminal proceedings. Following this, unless Commissioner Efendić makes an apology within 10 days, I am giving the initiative to elected officials, all associations of women, women's networks, citizens and citizens of Novi Grad Sarajevo to launch a petition for the replacement of Commissioner Efendić, who discriminates, insults and defamation of women, or to call on legal provisions and file criminal charges to the competent prosecution. This is because these crimes contain a subjective element which is reflected in the consequences of creation, quote, terrifying enemy, degradation, humiliating or offensive environment, the conclusion of the quote, as defined in Article 5(1) and Article 2(2). The law on gender equality in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13623	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13624	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. My question is to the Department of Defense. I say hello to the minister. He might be able to respond right away. So, as is known, the BiH Ministry of Defence's official space is being used by the US private organisation Military Professional Resources INC. (MPRI) which is being associated with a large number of controversial activities in the past war. According to information that can be obtained, the MPRI was an American NGO that hired former US officers who rented their strategies and officers during the war in the former Yugoslavia. Accordingly, I ask the Minister of Defense to answer my following questions. 10 1. How does the MPRI today help the Armed Forces of BiH, and what are the concrete types of assistance? 2. How many MPRI representatives are engaged in the Armed Forces of BiH? 3. How long will the Armed Forces of BiH use these kinds of help? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13625	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13626	I have two short questions. So the first is for the Ministry of Defence – Is the exact information we heard at the Doboj Workshop, held on 05 and 06 this month, that out of the 63th perspective location of military property 50% of them are not ready for registration, and is it true that the revision of the pre-determined list of perspective military assets by the Presidency is not excluded? That's the kind of information you've heard, I'm just asking for a check, or confirmation, if that's true. The second question for the BiH Presidency is whether you used the possibility and the right to coordinate in accordance with Article 3(4). The BiH Constitution, and what do you think is your position on the coordination mechanism that is being established despite the fact that there is a certain solution and institutions for it, so the BiH Presidency? And one question for my colleagues, so this is informal, I'm not looking for a formal answer. The World Diaspora Union sent to the addresses of all parliamentary parties a particular initiative related to the Census Act. Unfortunately, it's not addressed to us, so I'd like to know, we don't have to be formally answered, I'd like to know if anyone has any intention of doing anything on this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13627	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13628	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen. My question is – How much national and language equality of constituent peoples and all citizens of BiH is ensured on existing public broadcasters, pursuant to Article 26(3), (4) and (5). The Law on Public TV Service BiH? I refer the issue to the BiH Ministry of Transport and Communications. With the answer to this question, please send me the following information: 11 (a) Data on the national structure of employees of the BiH public TV services, first on BHRT; second on the HRTV Federacji BiH and third on the RS TV, where the national structure should be shown as the number of people employed by Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat and others in the total number of public broadcasters with 31.12.2012 and 2011? b) To provide information on which language was the radio, or television programme, or data on how much in each of the mentioned public TV services the programme was presented in hours and percentages in Serbian, Bosnian and Croatian languages in 2011 and 2012? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13629	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13630	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. I refer one initiative to the Council of Ministers, and it reads -- an initiative addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers to bring in sublaws as soon as possible and form the Office for the Control and Accreditation of Trustees so that the Law on Electronic Signature can be implemented. Explanation: Better service for citizens and reducing corruption in the state administration can be most effectively implemented by informing the public administration, i.e. by creating an electronic administration. One of the basic assumptions of the establishment of an electronic administration is the application in practice of the Electronic Signature Act. This application is not possible because of the non-legislative acts relating to the Law on Electronic Signature, and we all know well that the Law on Electronic Signature was adopted in 2006. So, even after 7 years, no sublegal acts have been adopted and the most important is the establishment of the Office for Supervisory and Accreditation of Trustees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13631	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13632	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow ministers. My parliamentary question concerns, I refer it to the BiH Council of Ministers. BHANSA Air Navigation Agency, founded in 2009, still lacks a permanent management and a permanent employee, and in 2012 it earned 20 million marks. At the same time, officials of the Agency’s Management Board shall be assigned to management positions in other directorates and undertakings, and BHANSA’s duties shall be carried out on the basis of an act contract and shall receive cash compensation for that. In addition to the Administration, there is a Board of the Agency which makes up 7 members, who are also 12 engaged on the basis of an act contract. According to BHANSA, the Agency should employ around 550 workers indefinitely, however, the Council of Ministers of BHANSA did not approve the Payments Regulation adopted by the Council of Ministers and this remained the only prerequisite for the reception of workers. My question is – is the Council of Ministers intending to address the new situation and enable the normal functioning of the Agency that earns millions of marks, and does not have a permanent employee or Agency Administration? When does the Council of Ministers intend to adopt the BHANSA Systemtisation and Payment Regulation in order to ensure the selection of BHANSA Directors and Deputy Directors? I'm asking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13633	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13634	Mr. Chairman, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, colleagues and colleagues. I have one question for the Council of Ministers. The 1996 Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and BiH established a Committee on the Water Economy to address the problem in the water economy. I guess it's about the joint commission. Did this Committee in its work so far have a focus on the problem of hydroaccumulation of Busko Blato, or on the conditions under which local waters collected in the area of the municipalities of Livno and Tomislavgrad are used to produce electricity in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13635	Thank you. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13636	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I have three questions, two concerns the BiH presidency. The first question is – Do all three members of the BiH presidency use the official premises of the BiH presidency building for their regular activities? And secondly – Is it true that individual members of the Presidency are using other rooms outside Sarajevo in parallel and who pays the costs of these so-called so-called. Office, i.e. space? And the third question is the issue of cantonal governments – How much is the budget deficit of canton individually from 31.12.2012? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13637	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13638	Dear Chairman, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I would like to submit a parliamentary initiative that at the next session of the House of Representatives, the point of my decision should be placed in the membership of the Commission for the collection and consumption of donations in accordance with Article 29. Rules of Procedure on the work of temporary committees of this House. Namely, I was the initiator for this Commission to start and work, but we cannot be in the Commission, which is not meeting for 2-3 months, which should be at least 15 days, and not to say if it can't every 7 days, to articulate its activities, but it is impossible to work if we don't have support from the competent institutions, which is the BiH and SIPA prosecution, so whose primary task is to deal with it. I don't want to get involved, nor is it possible for me to be an inspector, to be a prosecutor, to be a judge, to bring someone in, to be interrogated. And I don't want my name withdrawn in the media anymore as it retreats from the previous commission of Tihomir Gligorić, the gentleman who was the chairman of the commission, without doing anything practically. I had an intention, I had a wish, I had the will to really clear that up, but when I see that no one cares, I want that farce to be interrupted and that at least my name is not on that committee, if the House of Representatives decides to extend the mandate of that commission, and I suggest that it be lifted because it really doesn't make sense. And another very important thing, so that someone wouldn't respect me, under the alleged signs, that I was running from that Ad hoc commission because the only reason I didn't pay for work on that commission, so there wasn't, was not my motive. I wanted to work there for free and I had a lot of information about the thieves who robbed this country, but when I see that no one cares, I don't want to be just a member of some associate with my name and name without making any contribution. That's why I want to, and you'll get in writing an initiative to put that point of my resolution at the next session. And if the predstavnički of Representatives decides that this commission should no longer be interrupted and that we do not withdraw from the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13639	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13640	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I have a parliamentary question. So in 2009, BiH signed the CITES International Agreement on Trade and Transport of Protected Plants and Animal Species. To this day, i.e. For four years, no one has yet realised this signature, i.e. no institution was found to accept the CITES implementation tasks. I ask the question to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations – So when will CITES live in BiH as well as 175 UN member states? I'm going to explain this to my colleagues a little bit so they know what it's about, the one who's not being referred to. CITES is an international agreement that they have signed, that is practically all UN countries, some 15th is not, so BiH has also signed but no one has found to take responsibility for CITES, it would practically work, as I understand, on monitoring all these things concerning trade in protected plant and animal species. To inform you, so 14 legal borders of BiH cannot cross any practically animal species that is in the order of protection, means practically savage. None of the savages and parts of the game can cross the border either side because we are not signatories of CITES. BiH is one of the best hunting destinations here in the environment and believe that many hunting grounds suffer because they cannot sell the game they have to foreigners, or to people who have money. They primarily asked me to ask this question – When will the normal work of CITES and on the premises of BiH become and we are competitive, meaning in that part of the hunting in the world and Europe. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13641	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13642	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to ask the Council of Ministers. In fact, let me remind you, this House made a decision, so when the budget was adopted, that the Council of Ministers would urgently come forward to draft the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Ministers and other high-ranking civil servants. The deadline was a month. It's been over a month and a half, and we have no information that what's been done in that regard. And let me remind you, we have debated very much in this House whether these discussions are about debate or whether we want to do something? In fact, there have been a lot of critical reflections in relation to coordination, namely the relationship between the Council of Ministers and Parliament. And to that end, we said that some relations are standardized in terms of the rights and duties of the executive authority. And they've got all the lands arranged. Of course, I pretend, I don't know how many supporters I have, that this country is legally arranged and that everyone has their rights but also responsibilities. At the present stage, we don't have those responsibilities, because it's not legally regulated. Let me remind you, it's especially a matter of directors of various agencies, you don't know what they're doing, bad results have huge salaries, so to tell yourself they're determining salaries, themselves, costs for cars, expenses, etc., etc. That's not to mention, there's been a lot of speeches here. This law can regulate this, thus standardising and creating a legal basis for the liability of those who do not comply with this law. That's why he's very important. I ask the Council of Ministers to approach this bill. And another question I would also like to ask the Council of Ministers. These days we heard that Croatia did not call a public tender to build a bridge on Sava, although it was agreed. And that's already taking a long time. BiH has great ambitions to have good relations with Croatia. And then I said I didn't believe that Croatia had 30-50 million funds to build that bridge. But I also found that our leadership is passive in this regard, especially the Foreign Ministry. Namely, whether the foreign ministry, if it really is true that Croatia is obstructing, at least according to a statement by the minister of traffic and ties of the RS, that it has no will to approach the construction of the bridge, and then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including the Presidency of this country, should take appropriate measures. Don't let me remind you that after 4-5 hours, people wait at the crossings. 15 So, they are not, they are citizens, they are Srbin, they are Hrvat, they are Bošnjak. And it is in the interest of this country to build that bridge and to have a passage, it will facilitate
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13643	I'd like to ask the honourable representative to take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13644	A lot of people coming from outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13645	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13646	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I would have one question to ask according to the Rector of the Croatian University of Mostar, the esteemed Professor Dr.sc. Vlad Majstorović. These days we have witnessed, both in written and in electronic media, that some strange things happen when it comes to the University of Mostar, or individual universities. That in certain universities we have officers of the dean's duties or the dean himself who do not answer for their title, means they do not have that teaching and scientific title so that they may be elected as dean, or that they are not even employees of the University of Mostar and that certain courses at the University and that they teach people who have called themselves masters of science without having adequate education, nor a teaching title. So I would, here to resolve... so basically we now have a situation that is trying to resolve at the University of that situation. On the one hand, we have a report from the county inspection, meaning school inspections on the state of the university, and on the other hand we have some very difficult statements, but not quite as convincing when it comes to the University of Mostar. So I would ask the rector a question – Are the current deans and officials of the deans elected to these functions contrary to the law and to the Statute of the University and if they were when the classes were held in the colleges when the choice was made? Is it true that at the University of Mostar, we have a teaching staff that doesn't have adequate teaching, if so, who will answer for it? And whether the founders of the University carry out their funding obligations, means the University, on a regular basis, or whether these obligations are acceptable, means that the monetary amount is acceptable to the University, because we know that today students, not only at this university but at all, pay large amounts for tuition, means the full amounts at the beginning of the year. I think that the state and founders should make sure that students have more normal access to the university, i.e. ...probably to allow free schooling as we have in neighbouring countries. Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13647	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13648	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. As regards the parliamentary issue raised at the 36th House session, held on 22.11.2012, unsatisfactory with the Council of Ministers' unsatisfactory response, because it is false and does not correspond to the actual state, I repeat the parliamentary question from the 36th session of the House since 22.11.2012. If I do not get the right answer to this question within a reasonable period of time, I will propose the establishment of a special body of the House of Representatives which will analyse in detail the decisions taken by the Council of Ministers and inform this House accordingly. I will also suggest that the Council of Ministers' decision to review BiH institutions be included in the analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13649	Thank you. Since we are no longer logged in, I am concluding this item on the agenda. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. A request by representative Saša Magazinović to discuss the Bill's proposal on Supplements to the Law on the Basics of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure Representative Saša Magazinović delivered the above-mentioned draft law on 1402.2013 with an urgent request for an examination. You got the bill. I'm opening a debate. Honored representative Saša Magazinović, the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13651	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, others present, I warmly welcome you all. Since this law is of a small scope and complexity, I will try to say only in a few sentences what it is, although I suppose most colleagues know what it is. The traffic safety law on the roads to BiH is comprehensive,...the law we have so far, if I am not mistaken, six interventions. In the last of them in 2010, I do not want to qualify whether it was a mistake or otherwise, one member who, or part of the member who made a problem in the implementation of this Law itself was released. 17 What is it? In this Act there are members of 73 and 74 who define wrong parking, but in Article 238 which defines the penalty for such an act, again I consider it a mistake to miss the sanctioning of violations of the provisions of these two members and practically these additions to the Law we return that part to the Law. And I'm just going to say in practice what this lack of law meant. He reflected in two ways. One is that the penalties continued to be charged under Article 238 although there was no basis for charging the wrong parking, so some citizens paid the fine, not knowing of this lack in the Law, while others who knew were complaining to the court and of course those penalties were annulled. On the other hand, in certain environments, according to my information, part of the people who implement this Act, so the cops knowing about this lack simply did not charge the fines at all, which is correct, but this caused chaos in this segment of traffic. So, I urge you to support this law, to correct the mistake that was made in 2010 and to facilitate the implementation of the law in this segment. And finally, I want to say that when it comes to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in BiH, there are a few more things that need to be changed in a shorter period. I have discussed this with one of my colleagues here and it is not excluded that similar laws will be proposed in the next period. And why isn't that with this member? Because further consultations are needed and there is no degree of simplicity or complexity, however you will, same with this law that was proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13652	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13653	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I don't want to talk about this law, but on this law, I want to say that there is an increasingly visible phenomenon in the legislative activity of both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Although we have four readings in two homes in the regular procedure, so two readings in one home, two readings in another home, the exceptions are situations where there are no such readings, when it is an emergency procedure, such as today, but despite all these procedures, and this Law is one example of such a thing, it is known that when the law is adopted certain technical errors are observed. And this Law today is the result of a correction of one of those mistakes. I am saying this because of those people who will be sitting on the committee or who have already been elected and who are sitting in the Commission for Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure. Amongst the Council of Ministers who has to take due account of its procedures, the Legislative and All, the General Secretariat and everything that follows, the Ministry of Justice is following, I think another filter must be installed here in the BiH Parliament. There is nothing new to be invented, we have the legislative sector and the legislative sector should be the one, and this is a proposal for those who will work on the Rules of Procedure, which will review these matters in detail, to the Constitutional Legal Commission, and then the Constitutional Commission, and then the committee responsible. This is, therefore, just a message to those who work the Rules of Procedure, to pay attention to it, and I will certainly pay attention to it for some other cases and when the Rules of Procedure are on the agenda. Thank you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13654	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13655	I would just like to say a few words and finally my opinion, given the proposal of my colleague Saša Magazinović, because this proposal is about amending the law. I believe that the Law on the Fundamentals of Transport Security at the level of BiH, and it is soon being prepared and I think that in this way by an urgent procedure we should discuss only this point of the agenda, that is, on this issue and these issues, I do not think that it is necessary, and should not be considered as very urgent, urgent. But in any way, I think it would be good if colleague Magazinović had won at least from professional associations, had received an opinion on this proposal in order to make it easier to convince all of us that this is so urgent and urgent. I definitely think, knowing this Law, I think we should wait and consider any changes that are current in the next period. And now on this point, I don't think it's very urgent, and I'm not going to vote for this personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13656	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13657	Very short. I didn't really understand my colleague Jagodić all that he said, but this part I understand is what I want to answer. As regards the opinion of all those concerned by this Law, in fact this Law has also come out of communication, as Jagodić said, and with associations, but above all with those who directly implement this Law and meet this problem on the ground, so to the police authorities. So I respect that maybe someone thinks that we should wait for the comprehensive amendments to this Law to change this technical part, and I respect that opinion, of course, I disagree with it, but if most of us here were to identify ourselves, so that we do not change this Law, then at least we who have passed this Law and both Houses of Parliament have made, unfortunately, this mistake, at least in a certain way, inform the citizens that they do not have to pay these penalties that they receive every day, where they get them. I mean, we have a real problem right now that one number of people are paying a fine because they don't know they don't have to pay it against the law, while others who know it complain in court, so at least they're all in the same position. But I actually think that we need this law simply to settle this, this area and that the penalty for improper parking in BiH can be charged as charged in any country. And I agree that there are many other things that we as advocates will talk about in the follow-up process.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13658	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13659	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I remember 2006 when this Law was passed and when, when 150 amendments followed this Law. And then I remember that the Ministry of Communication was obliged to make after the adoption of the Law a comprehensive review of the repercussions that this Law leaves to many and to make a proposal to practically purify that Law in all those segments and from the amendments that conflicted with each other. Well, we haven't been lucky enough to have the Ministry do it until today. I suggest that, this can be seen as an argument that my colleague Magazinović said but he doesn't have to, it's not the only problem with this law. If she was the only one I'd raise both my hands for it now, I don't mind if she adopted something like that. But what I'm saying is, if this isn't adopted again, it's going back years without solving the issue of this law. I believe that you have a good opportunity to use your party ties and convince the minister that he still needs to do the job that the Ministry has to do and has not done in the last 4-5 years. So I propose that it be adopted in addition to this, adopt a conclusion requiring the Ministry to submit within 90 days to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Amendments and the addition of the Law on the Fundamentals of Road Safety, Road Traffic in BiH and to solve all the problems and all the controversial members of this Law. I think that would be a comprehensive and good solution, because I know that people complain, that there are a lot of problems, that they say that this Law is challenging many of its members, and I think that would be a better solution than this urgent resolution of only one member.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13660	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13661	I'm really surprised how many masters we make of very simple things to seem complicated, complicated... A simple man has launched an initiative to eliminate an obvious failure. All of these, so there are dozens of them, and I have some initiatives, you have, too, to assume that the Resort Ministry will do that analysis and so on, but why wait for it, a simple change, completely clear without any dilemmas, I see absolutely no reason why it will continue not be punished, not to charge fines and stimulate irregular behavior in traffic. So, I thank Mr. Magazinović for trying, communicating, making and giving people to do it. There'll be a chance and then we'll talk about the law in general, but why wait and do this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13662	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, 20 Ad. 4. Report by the Committee of the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Mine Action in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (the Second Reading Law) – a delayed statement at the 41st session of the House, held on 31.01.2013. At the 40th session of the House held on 03.01.2013, this Bill was sent to the House for subsequent consent due to the insufficient entity majority. The college didn't achieve consent. At the 41st session, held on 31.01.2013, a statement on the draft law was postponed in the second reading for the next House session. There is no debate within this point. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a property management law temporarily and permanently withdrawn in criminal proceedings before the Court of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13665	As you said yourself, Mr. Chairman, the Constitutional Commission has delivered a positive opinion this time. I suggest that the House adopt the law in the first reading and move forward with the procedure. It is a law that is needed for the BiH judiciary system to function successfully and for the fight against corruption to be more successful. It is a law that takes care of the proper bossing, objects and property that is taken up in criminal proceedings so that the BiH state does not suffer harm and that no funds are paid out of the budget because we have not taken what we need to do as a state. This law, therefore, offers solutions to the matter. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13666	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13667	Here, I'll do it very briefly, because I discussed it last time. And, of course, I don't ignore it, nor forget what is said when it comes to this, this position, so to speak, prequalification 21 for adoption. So we are told here that this law has no support from the RS, that it has not been unanimously adopted by the Council of Ministers, that it provides for the establishment of a new institution, so it has not passed the qualifications that are of course, here you see established. But I'd like to ask and recommend, I don't know how much more you'd like to express yourself, if we still try to understand that this is about the introduction of an institute that will fill the legal void. Namely, this is about the management of the property seized by the BiH Court's rulings. The entity regulations, or RS, already arranged it, the Federation edits, so I got the information, so one legal gap remains. So we can't expect the entity laws to settle the issue of seized, seized property at the BiH Court, we simply have to do it here. Now, is there a political will, or is there a will? I don't have, I don't discuss it in a way that I'm producing an additional atmosphere, it's quite clear to me that there are reasons why people in the RS don't support this, but here I'm just trying to remind that it's a full legal void and an elimination of a permanent situation where we have damage to the BiH state. And of course, one more time I remind the promoter and ask him to use the legal basis I spoke about last time, so Article 3.1 point g) of implementation, so it is the original jurisdiction of the BiH state. Some things might be improved in the amendment phase, so here I am trying to appeal to the people of the RS, the MPs of the RS to let this law into the second round, so let's see if we can do something about it, because it's legal void, it's going to stay that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13668	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13669	Thank you, Chairman. I must say that, above all, members of the Constitutional Commission of the Republic of Slovenia have been voted upon in establishing a constitutional basis for this Law. And I would like to refer to what Mr. Belkić says this solves the legal gap. No, Mr. Belkić, there's no legal gap, there's only a problem with Article 7. The law on the BiH Court of Justice that says that when the Court of Justice can exclude an object from entity judicial institutions when it is estimated that the reputation, the BiH economy and so on is violated. So it happens that someone commits a crime somewhere in Banja Luka, that some minister in the government of the RS, say abuse his position, so someone in the Court of BiH says, wakes up in the morning on his left leg and then they say – well, you see this one has enough property and we could take this item here. No, if someone damaged the RS, and the RS has already founded this agency, then it should go to the budget of the RS. So, the problem here is the jurisdiction of the BiH Court. We don't mind, if someone in BiH's institutions has abused their position, damaged BiH's budget here, that property may go to the Budget of BiH, let it return. But we can't and we're not for it, and we'll never be for it, so that what was stolen in RS is not sent back there. And the fact is that the BiH Court abuses this Article 7. The Law on the Court of Justice of BiH. And here's the chance, let's change that term, and then maybe we can work something out. After all, I think this agency is too high because the BiH Criminal Penalty Act contains provisions on the enforcement of measures to confiscate property benefit acquired by criminal acts. The second thing is that the Court doesn't do its job as well as it should. And we won't because someone's not doing their job, why they're getting paid, now we're building a new agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13670	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13671	Well, I don't have the expertise or competence in the field of law as Miss Pandurević and I'm going to leave this to the Minister of Resort. Otherwise, I express my dissatisfaction with a passive relationship between the legislator and the laws discussed here, very rarely anyone defends their own bill. So I'd ask the minister to say what he thinks about these gaps, the gaps, the Serbian money, the non-Serb money. What was taken at BiH level belongs to all BiH citizens regardless of whether they are Srbin, Hrvat or Bošnjak, but that is, if there is both Serbian air and forest, then that is different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13672	Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13673	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. It's a problem that, as far as I can get into that aspect and that kind of debate, which is from a professional point of view, is very complicated. Nothing here changes with this law. The regime of confiscation of property benefits does not change the jurisdiction of courts, does not change the system of submission and judgment of the property-law requirement, does not change the regime of temporary and permanent confiscation of cases, does not change the regime of these security measures or security measures which, in addition to the penalty, maintains the same. It doesn't even change the regime where funds go from fines, benefits, all the same, this law doesn't touch anything. The argumentation of this species that tries to challenge this Law is just an excuse not to adopt the Law. This Law only regulates the question of how to manage the property better until the ultimate act of what and how it is, that the state does not suffer the damage. Only this is governed by this Law and only covers and therefore it is a void as my distinguished counterpart, Beriz Belkić, says, because it is not regulated by the law at BiH level. So much, thank you, as an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13674	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13675	Thank you. 23 Obviously, the thing is known, so we're not going to have an entity majority and we don't need to discuss this much further, but I think it's both right. It is my opinion that, if it is a controversial article 7, I hope by reforming the six-sixth court's public administration now that it will satisfy both sides and that we have no problems, because it really takes care of the property that, in two situations, the court eventually takes away and which court in the course of the trial is someone to guard. But I still think, therefore, because there is an entity level that at BiH level, as I said last time, I can do it by three people at the finance ministry. So, the property that the court ruled out and decided to take away,... it's easy to sell right away and make money and budget, and the property that's blocked during the process, so, to turn itself over to some security agency and not spend a lot of time and resources around it, because we see that we still have extra costs here about something that I think can be rationalized. And that way, in a way, that both sides will make peace and bring what we need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13676	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13677	I thank the chairman. I have a need to say, or repeat one thing, although a lot is said actually, when it comes to this problem is the same target distance. But the key comment of the SNSD, which has been said before, is that since structural dialogue is about the functioning of judicial institutions, our view is that none of these laws should have gone into procedure, and someone was just talking about it, until the issue is resolved. We don't know how it's gonna be solved. And we don't know, he's not gonna stay like this. That's one thing. This is unsustainable and impossible to stay like this. I think we should end this story, either through structural dialogue, or on a political level, in a way, but this is obviously an unsustainable state with which no one is satisfied. And it got into this kind of dialogue and it kind of needs to be finished and see if it brings results. Which is the judgment and the manner of which they shall remain, and the jurisdiction, and who shall take away, and who shall not have any possession, and in the name of whom, and in which part, and in what way. Because there's a lot of talk going on around here if someone's doing something in Banja Luka, it's, let's say, hostile activity. So it's only good for the state what's done in Sarajevo. That's not true. And there's someone doing something in the name of justice, in the name of justice and in the name of something. Since we have a situation, and last time we said it, that even when we make the agency that the courts are the ones that still play the lead in the whole story. I wish we had information on which the field here in Sarajevo now lies seized property and don't know what to do with it? She's not lying anywhere, she's gone. We don't have the pressure from the judicial institutions that they're going to say -- you know, we're being taken away from the property, so give us the agency. Here, we'll do it right now, at least temporarily, if nothing else. But it's not like that. So it's not like that. A lot of things don't work out, and this is based on the Brisel matrix that sees us as a normal state and then sends us what others have. We're not a normal state, and they can't ask us to do what others have done. Because if we were a normal country tonight, two ambassadors would be setting up the Federation government. I expect one day the Federation MPs will come across the American Embassy and take permission and a ticket to come to Parliament, or approval or whatever. So we're not, we're not that something that's not normal. And then we can't remember 24 at once, like we're dreaming, you know, we're state. In which country there's a world where it's going to get somebody up, I listened at 1:00 last night, woke up one of them and said, "Here's what we decided." Well, people, for three years, they've been picking you, voting you, and like this, and like that, and that's how it's gonna be around here. And about the judiciary, too. Asim knows it, when Šahbaz says he's moving, he'll move. Until he says so, it'll all be like that. And don't let us bother and suddenly we're asked to forget it. It's not like that. Nothing and no agency and nothing until we have a deal. And there's enough frames for those who want to do their job, and obviously you all see that they're not going to work. So it's one of the excuses -- you know, maybe now that you're gonna give us that agency, maybe we'll get started. Well, it won't start then, we know it. So, I end up with, I think, a set of laws, I know that additional legislative solutions are needed, I know that certain laws can always be corrected and that practice requires and that it is a living process, but I think that we in BiH are in the state of we are, especially when the area of justice is that we have come into a situation that no one believes in this necessary pillar of society in the state. We all agree that he's needed, we all agree that he should be independent, we're all in agreement, but fortunately or unfortunately, I don't know how it happened, no one trusts them. Niko of the three people, none of the citizens, none of the parties, none of the none. So do I, and if they asked me to explain how it happened, I don't know. But the fact is that no one believes them and that something needs to be done in the next period, not as a foot to stick its head in the sand and push the next legislative solution as if everything were normal. It is not all normal, unfortunately, I regret to say so, and therefore this law could come into a normal debate the moment we reach all other political agreements, because the judiciary is an important segment, the first political agreement, and then all other agreements in BiH, and obviously it is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13678	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13679	I thank the chairman. Here, I was a little encouraged by the part of my colleague Kalabić's discussion that said this was an abnormal state, so I asked myself, is he a normal MP in an abnormal state or is this about abnormal MPs in a normal state? So let's take a look at ourselves, then, when we talk about it. Secondly, let us also allow that, perhaps slightly and unusually, first of course today is Valentine's Day, and since the Law that we are discussing was also the subject of special attention and in the pre-election campaigns of some political parties, here is to allow the ruling six, especially at this point 5. Congratulations Valentine's Day. And thirdly, it seems to me that it would help if we heard here from the Registrar who sent this zakon into parliamentary procedure, so I'm going to ask the chairman to call the Secretary-General, if you appreciate what you need. First, let us hear what is motive for this Law today, especially in the context of reforms, structural dialogue and so on, judicial reform, because as the discussions have started, it seems to me that this Law could experience a fate that most in this Paralment probably do not want to experience. And maybe we have 25 vague questions. And it seems to me that it would be desirable for us to hear perhaps the Minister of Resistance explain it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13680	Thank you. Dear MPs, here I am as a member of the Six, so as far as I know Valentine's Day treats the relationship of two people, their emotional, and this is about a group card, so I couldn't thank you for it. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13681	If being in love is the result of such a little weird attitudes about the relationship in the country, then I understand it. If that's what's going on, 'cause an ordinary man with a crush doesn't act like he's normal. That's what scientists have proven, that he has a special condition then, and they say that the biggest problem is that people agree to marriage in the greatest love of this abnormal state, and then after they're normal, they see whether it's right or wrong. But about that, by that. There are more people here to talk about it. But my colleague Azra asked a good question – are we normal? We should ask ourselves sometime. Because, dear fellow Members, if you were traveling the world, you were often with respected senior officials abroad, fellow MPs, and if you told 10 members of the world, you know, the ambassador appointed us ministers and formed a government, what would they first tell you? Well, human, our reaction -- you're not normal. That would be the normal reaction of every man in the world to that finding of yours if it were happening to you. Like I might tell them about some things. But for this thing, the logical human reaction, that nothing here is normal. And it's not normal. I wish I was wrong, too. I'd like you to convince me, too. And the day you convince me that everything is normal and that this is a normal state I will apologize for everything I said and shine with happiness and say – now we're good, now it's okay and now it's that. Now, unfortunately, don't think of luck, but unfortunately I can't say it. The question of whether or not we act normal here, the question of whether as State MPs that we've stuck our heads in the sand a thousand times, when other international officials gave us lectures, made us rags, plain rags. We've been acting the same way. Accept that, either individually, or collectively. And there's no one who hasn't kept a letter here. And I told you, here's the final example, the final example. I can't change that, but you can't ask me not to realize that two ambassadors form a government, a Federation government. And to say, no two peoples, no choices, no political party, but we sat down and agreed, we think we should. Well, I think Faraon had some choices, too. But tonight I hear the president of the Federation can't have an election. He says, "He has to stay, and he's not ashamed to tell us all." No, they say he has to stay. How, in which country, in which country, in which elections, in which system, just to explain to me. How, without breaking it, but no, they do, so who can normally accept it and say it. We're not normal, we're not normal. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13682	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13683	Well, I still stand that in this country if the state is normal there are abnormals who raise their hands here and vote for both the Minister and the Council of Ministers and so on. So I'm still saying that everyone has to wonder if he's abnormal in a normal state or vice versa. That's one thing. Second, I just want to remind him of this case. At least there are MPs here who didn't raise their hands for the election of ministers and the Council of Ministers, but I'm sure and I know, as you know, that you've raised your hands and don't transfer, if you feel that there is any responsibility, responsibility for someone else.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13684	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13685	Here, I'd like a little, as it says, to replicate on all these discussions. That this BiH law is needed he is absolutely necessary regardless of what these laws have... already formed the Agency in the RS, and in the Federation is formed. So, BiH representatives along with co-signatures of the Dayton Agreement signed this today to be normal or abnormal. Therefore, I disagree with my colleagues' discussions whether BiH is normal or not. BiH has difficulties on its way to the EU, towards the NATO Alliance. But I'm saying we signed it, where we can't make a deal or where we can't do something, means we do something, to be made by an international community. That's our will. So no one's been chasing for it. So we have, here's almost three or four years of Sejdiu-Sejdić-Finci's verdict. Now that someone's angry, these some ambassadors, so she'll be implemented, is, on behalf of the Six, where you're now chairing Mr. Chairman, whether, she'll be implemented by the end of the third month. No matter how much debate we have here, how much..., we have the Interim Commission from all parliamentary parties here, which means we discussed it and we have failed to agree on it, but here with the help of the international community, when a senior official or head of NATO comes here, when the EU chief comes, gives a speech there, sends it to all of us that we have it and sends us a clear message. So, here in BiH, some people want to jam some processes, brake some processes, and make some of it out of it, so here I am not going to say it's abnormal, but it's exactly an abnormal state. So, our goal is to negotiate, and I'm sorry to say that this law is to be agreed, this law needs BiH. I am not what my colleague Mladen was saying to establish additional institutions at BiH level, the type of this Employment Agency that will be ineffective. We must make the law applicable, effective, this law, this law, the bill. I too would like to hear the promoter carry with him certain dangers that the BiH state may be underestimating someone's assets and charging costs. Of course, here when it comes to the judiciary, it means that 27 needs to experience transformation or efficiency. But it wouldn't just be a matter of the BiH Court, the same things are on these entities and cantonal courts. So there's something down there that's not a plant situation but what's here. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13686	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živkogić, vice-president, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13687	I thank the chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Whether something is normal or not is normal knows who determines it. Whether the earth is normal or not is normal is the only way we can determine how others work. I'm asking you, is it common that one country has no regulated border with any neighbors? Is it common for children to be born in this country, regardless of the national omen, and not be able to enter the home number? Is it normal that in one country, or by default, you can't go to Dom, which here today discusses what is normal and is not normal, that if early elections are held tomorrow, elections for this House cannot be held. Is it common to change the constitution of a canton here, where others are inserted, and there is not one constituent people? What do you want to talk about? How much of it we need to make as arguments or just agree here together that we want this country to be normal, that it's impossible to do in these situations. How can we discuss Sejdić and Finicia without the children being able to get a home number here? What are we talking about? Let's go back to the law, the law of taken property, and let's obviously leave this to some of the others who are willing and willing to finish this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13688	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13689	Thank you very much. I want to tell Jurišić colleagues. And we're in favour of the Dayton Agreement. So, the moment you find us at the point that doesn't apply to the letter of the Dayton Agreement, you can say that we have violated all principles. So, never before have MPs from the RS made a move that coincides with the Dayton Peace Agreement. But it is truly incomprehensible that you believe that it is in accordance with the Dayton Agreement if members of the Serbian people are tried under the Law that came after the event, and representatives of the other two nations are tried by the law of the former Yugoslavia as more favourable. So for the same crime, a representative of the Serb people was sentenced to 11 years, and a representative of Bosniak to 3. And that's what you're saying is that it's in line with the Dayton Peace Agreement. Is it in line with the Dayton Peace Agreement, if we agreed to transfer some responsibilities, consciously and unconsciously, but made 70 institutions. Wasn't it logical that, in accordance with the Dayton Peace Accords, we would sit down and see which of the institutions were not doing their job? And we heard a bunch, there's a bunch of institutions not coming to work either. They take salaries not coming to work. There is no story, the Federation would never accept to open such a question, because it is a question – imagine touching the very heart of BiH if you talk about the work of its institutions. We can't understand each other. So, never before have you found on any of the issues that we were guilty of, that we were against it, and that was the issue of BiH's exclusive jurisdiction. But we will talk a lot, and fight and disagree, if there is another attempt to make what is not at Federation level done to move it to BiH level. So, if we wanted to get along, Mr. Jurišić, we'd sit down and talk about it. And we wouldn't have been nailed to the point of view. Respect the Dayton Agreement and you will never have a problem with the adoption of the law and with representatives of the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13690	Thank you. Let me now as chairman, here's to this place with a few words and a replication, but also to try to return the debate on this point to those frames that it defines by its name. It is a proposal for a law on property management temporarily and permanently seized in criminal proceedings before the Court of BiH. Coliga Živković correctly noticed, therefore, who is in charge of assessing what is normal, which is not normal if a person is, if it is a society, then you have social, sociologists again, you have social pathologists even. But what we can certainly agree on here is this country is not functional. If the state is a set of institutions at different levels, which should function to satisfy the interests of its citizens and the position of the country in the world, we can also say that it is not functional, that it is not even self-sustainable, since we have the institutions of the international community that are still crucially governing some issues here. So, I'd just like to ask that we don't go into this debate right now, about some basic issues that we haven't reached an agreement in this country yet, and hopefully we'll achieve and then make it functional and get back to the agenda point. Thank you for your attention. Dear representative Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13691	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to talk about what's on the agenda, so it's about the law. I thought that in the last session we had made it perfectly clear, that the Federation colleagues understood why we cannot support this Law from the RS and we felt that after such a discussion, the most logical sequence was either that the minister withdraws this bill or that the law lets the law experience fate, means that it is definitely brought down, that it does not pass in this procedure. Someone here called on the minister to say, to come out and say that he is actually defending this Law, and I am now asking myself and the minister – what would he have to say to us here now, if he proposed 29 laws on behalf of the Council of Ministers for which there is no support of ministers from one constituent people. What can you say about that? He does not, on this basis, have absolutely no argument to defend the law, if it is known that the laws can pass in the House of Representatives only those who have the support of all three constituent nations in the order of ministers who propose these laws. And if anyone thinks, Mr. Belkić, I listened very carefully to you as you spoke, so, if anyone thinks, and now I want my replica to refer to Mr. Zvonko Jurišić's presentation, which I must say, did you, my colleague Jurišić, listen to what you were saying while you were discussing this? The hour you say should be referred to the Dayton Peace Accords, and I would like you to find out in which member of the Dayton Peace Agreement it is said that such a law must be passed which establishes a new agency, for which it is very discreet and questionable what it will do, on which grounds, with what means, for what purpose? So, the law has been failed in a fundamental sense, not in terms of whether or not we want an agency at the level of BiH discussed in the said law. And then you say after that, it's the foreigners who need to resolve certain dilemmas in BiH, and right after that, you tell me that we need to make a deal and say what needs to be done. So I'm telling you whether you're listening to yourself and what you're saying and whether you even listened to the discussion at the last session, when the MPs from the RS here spoke and explained, argued, why we can't support this law. And this is a needless waste of time and a waste of energy on a law like this. counterpart Džaferović says, there are some removed, it's no big deal that we vote, now it's not negative, now it's the Commission's positive opinion. It is not a matter of the Commission's opinion at all, but of the fact that the law is essentially a failure. So, basically, the Agency that's being talked about is missing. There is in the RS, in great capacity doing its job, the Federation, we heard, working on it, and now someone is asking to hire a new, set up the Agency, hire new eight people, provide for the start of 400,000 marks, in a situation where the budget of BiH is shrinking. So, I don't really know if we're even listening here and if we respect each other or if you think, here we are, the RS guys were talking about it in the last session, and now they're going to vote for it. Well, it's not gonna happen, we have to be principled.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13692	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13693	If we say something then it is and we stand from beginning to end behind it, as well as to the end, until the fate of this Law has been revealed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13694	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13695	As for the Dayton Agreement, which is mentioned here several times, you are obviously from the RS, or some of you, observing the Dayton Agreement in a way that means that it is a peace 30 agreement, or you are interested in Annex IV of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the current Constitution of BiH and nothing more. Annex VII, you never mentioned him, nor did you want to discuss him. And this one, all those powers that say that in BiH, the interpretation of the Constitution is that and that, i.e. High Representative in BiH. This was signed at the time by representatives of Srbin, Hrvat, Serbia, Croatia, Bošnjak and so on. I don't think we're going back. And that's why I'm saying we need to be within the framework of the Dayton Agreement. At the level of the BiH state, of course two entities and three people agree, means it is a priority to the agreement. So it's a priority and it's given priority to the deal, and there's no way to impose any solutions. But I did say it again, so based on the Dayton Agreement, it's a high representative who can impose something, because we signed it. If the High Representative and the two ambassadors have imposed both the President and the Vice-President of the Federation illegally and illegally, we are going back 15 years to the RS, is it, when a new government is imposed, whose members you are today, also in one very, very unusual way for normal states. The helicopters, the parachutes, the call for meetings and the government's election, is it? That was, like, '98. Or '99. But that's not what we're talking about, so it's important today that two ambassadors said last night that he should remain president and two vice presidents of the Federation and so on. We won't do that, I'm also back to matter. So this is where the law was offered. It's clear to me and I appreciate it and I respect it if you said it didn't mean a deal reached. It's clear to me, colleague Marković, that you last told me that to pass any law, even this one, I need at least five hands from the RS in that second round, that's clear... so, yes. So if the billmaker hadn't been reached, he could have withdrawn this law as far as it was concerned. But here, so much so, and I think we should be interested in the matter that it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13696	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13697	Ma, I very much appreciate this, Mr. President, what you said and appealed to us to return to the realms of matter defined at the end of the agenda, but I can't help but rephrase to one finding by colleague Marković who said that it shouldn't be wasted needlessly, because the prerequisite for something to pass is to respect the will of all three peoples in this House. It would be good for colleagues to do so and it would be normal to take into account BiH's core definition, and it says it is a state of three constituent peoples and all, and other and all citizens living in it. Unfortunately, however, we have a situation that two peoples can defacto, have protection mechanisms from voting in the House of Representatives and also at the level of the Parliamentary Assembly. One people, the Croatian people, does not have these mechanisms, and I therefore invite you to be in line with this need to be truly equal in the decision-making rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and to support the amendments that the representatives of both HDZ have made to implement the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13698	Dear Representative Milorad Živković, vice-president, replica. Here you go. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13699	Thank you. Just for a little while, it means to my esteemed colleague Franjičević to correct the incorrect allegations. In fact, I was just a moment ago, an ambassador from Slovakia at a meeting in his outgoing visit told me one thing I wanted to share with you. So there was no better Federation than Czechoslovakia and a mechanism in which 2/3 of the Čeh and 1/3 of the Slovak, where the Slovak were absolutely protected that they could not vote at any level, but they were not willing to hold them. So this is not a question of whether the Hrvat will get a protection mechanism in BiH, but whether the three nations will have the will to preserve this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13700	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Kunić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13701	Thank you, Mr. President. That I get involved in some things that aren't, they don't have a legal basis that's been discussed. The fundamental issue in this House, otherwise in BiH, is governance, so decision-making, as Mr Ljubić said, and I agree. So, effective decision-making. For a modern state, the most important thing is to be efficient, transparent and just E, we could now analyse to what extent it is, especially when it comes to the judiciary, as Mr Kalabić pointed out, I have a similar point of view. The fundamental question of the efficiency of this Parliament's work is, of course, effective decision-making, but the question of who is to blame? Is it the one who suggests decisions that are not founding or the one that prevents such a possibility? It seems to me that it has been withdrawn for years, so for years, to propose decisions that are not constitutional, and that is the biggest problem of this Parliament. I'm the one dealing with these things a little bit, so it's absolutely obvious. Mrs. Aleksandra, Miss Excuse me, Aleksandra said one thing fantastically, where she called for article 7. The law on the BiH Court, where the BiH court can assume some jurisdiction from the entity courts. So that question is essentially contrary to the BiH Constitution. So, basically. Why? Because the BiH Constitution has established an exclusive division of jurisdiction. And it can't, nowhere does it say that a single body, a state body of joint institutions, can take over the authority of entities or units of local self-government. So, not to talk about it, it's the principle of federal states where a precedent is given in favor of the Federation or entities and so on, but I'm saying this is essentially anti-constitutional. Essentially anti-constitutional are many things when it comes to parity. Already in entities we have demands and initiatives to change the constitution, I mean in the RS for president and vice president. The question arises if this principle is applied how will power be established in entities? It's a serious question, and it looks like it doesn't matter that much. Here is the essential question, we said on the Constitutional Legal Commission, so as far as this law is concerned, so you cannot legally authorise the BiH Court of Justice to confiscate the property that belongs, as I know, to Prnjavor. And the members of this law are clear in that regard. It stands like this, Article 25. - immovable property that has been permanently seized on the basis of a judicial verdict is entered into the land 32 books as property of BiH and is handled in accordance with the regulations governing the handling of the property in BiH. Then you have a full member, article 31, read, which is decadently clear. Therefore, the law is unacceptable. We had a similar law in that pre-existing meeting where I was, where a law was proposed to confiscate illegally acquired property. And I'm always sorry that law wasn't passed. It was a similar situation at the time. Well, don't, if you take away the property in the boat to go to State Booking. No, I don't. It could be a very dangerous path, especially if it energises it in its practice the Constitutional Court whose decisions are also, at least in my humble view, sometimes very, very discriminatory. Thank you. /Shortly Interrupted Recording/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13702	Mr. Belkić, only if you can turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13703	... I absolutely had no intention... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13704	The word is from Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13705	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13706	I'd ask professional services to train the technique for work. A break of 10 minutes to get the technique working. /PAUSE/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13707	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to discuss item 5 of the agenda. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13708	Did they turn this on for us? Yeah, I can see that, probably in the hope that we'll be a little bit lighter in those grades of all those who in these areas are bright and cloudy, but that's how it is. When, I said earlier, when it comes to this law, everything is less said. I will not, of course, defend the minister on these questions as to why he answers or does not answer, I suppose that he did not want to be the one to stop the law, but that Parliament would tell its people about it and that, I totally understand that, is he going to get the answer? It dobići be answered by Parliament as it is, which 33 knew in advance. We also know that now there will be accusations, some may welcome to say that we are against crime and corruption. Well, here's what we've done so far, no one's given us any confession, because here's the system for a dead cat to throw away. So whatever you do, you'll be kind of crossed. I saw an interesting fact that, let's say, even the man we criticized here and we're still standing on those criticisms from the Office of Appeals filed 24 criminal charges for the staged tenders in BiH. When Pilav, as he was, filed 24 applications and made all that documentation, that means that it was well proven, and that it was probably done and done, it's because he's not going to be angry with me, he didn't look like who's going to do it, but here he is. In order for these things to be processed, no agency needs to be processed, and I say none of them will be processed. All the tenders, all the stories that are going on these days, that's why it doesn't take a lot of sense, it doesn't need a lot of knowledge, and it doesn't take a lot of time because people document it all and clearly say that the biggest flows of corruption go through public tenders that can be easily checked and processed in some way. And that doesn't require any property or seized property, no agency, no rest. I'm only talking about one segment of how much this system is, and when it comes to fighting corruption and crime, at this point in certain places, for unknown or known reasons to us, it's blocked. There's not one obstacle right now, nor is this law an obstacle for all state authorities to do their jobs. This law, no matter how some try to represent it as a minor importance of the law, as a nonessential law, as something that has passed so many things that this does not pass. Now we have come into a situation where what has gone to that extent has accumulated and become such a problem and has become such a distraction that it is no longer possible to talk about anything until the structural dialogue is completed to see. And right now I'm not some optimist, when it comes to structural dialogue, that something special is going to happen. But the only lesson from the debate on this law is that the Minister and the Ministry should not, until further notice, propose similar laws and simply waste time. That's if I was a cause for unnecessary replicas, too, I apologize. When I was talking about the Federation president, I didn't know his MP was here, and in the Balkans, you better hit the family, the wife, the children, don't touch the president. It's a disaster right now, and the president's defending himself to the last. And he had a need to probably say some things that we're not going to open right now. As a skilled bluff uses the Party for BiH, but the same thing in the Balkans can only pass. And without blinking, my colleague Azra says, well, you chose, and we're innocents, we've never been involved in anything. But it can do that in the Balkans, it goes for a short memory. I suggest you carry on, it works, it passes, don't give up because of what I'm saying. A party for BiH that has set up over 700 ministers, commissioners, officials, governments, the council of ministers, of course, will now sell the story that it has not participated in anything. And I believe it will even pass. I think there's a chance it won't go away when it's passed with the others, and it goes away with you. And of course we've been involved in this right now, but here I'll confirm, if anyone's listening to this, you've never been involved in anything before. And I think you're the new faces and you're the new strength and the new policy and I wish you all the luck to go through with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13709	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, debate. Here you go. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13710	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. Well, I haven't been able to find a better term here more times than I've appealed, I can't say I'm begging now, I have no one to beg. But my duty as an MP was to warn myself never to put laws in the procedure that were known at the outset that would not be supported or perhaps the only urgency was in it and the sense that some law would be put in the process, and that it would be immediately known who could, under alleged signs, be a potential culprit if that law failed or was brought down in Parliament. And if no agreement has been reached at all levels, if not all of them have been consulted, and here, without consulting entities, none of the Council of Ministers can be put in place any point of the bill. So when it doesn't go through there, there's a revote, I don't really see the point of putting it in parliamentary procedure and we're bringing ourselves into this position to discuss, and in the beginning, as it could be at the beginning of this discussion to say immediately in the first five minutes, that we're not wasting time, this isn't going to pass and we're not going to finish the story. So, when it comes to this agency itself, and everything the colleagues have talked about, the BiH Court can always, if they declare it a benefit, be declared competent and they can do so. So when they're in charge, here's the answer for 2010, and I'm waiting for 2011 and 2012, because those answers are late to arrive, they've damaged the budget by 4.5 million marks. And I've explained that here on several occasions, the fabricated charges, the people detained for no reason, the evidence, and then the evidence collected afterwards, the court later ruled that it was all meaningless, that there was no basis. And what happened? It happened that the BiH budget was damaged, he said for 2010 for 4.5 million marks, and the budget marks were not intended for those purposes either. So they have the staff to form an agency within their institutions and say -- here's the agency, not for confiscation in asset judgments, but for damage to BiH's budget. To form an expert body, let the College discuss it, let it not be called an agency, whatever it will be. So it's quite clear here. And again, I will repeat what I have repeated I don't know how many times either, I pray, I pray because I don't know another way to do what to do, but it's my duty as an MP to say that they never put in the procedure of the bill that in the beginning, when someone sees the text, the title, they don't need to look at the preamble, they don't need to look at the members, they don't need to look at the explanation, when it's immediately known that it won't get support. And what's going to happen? Then will be, these exploited entity voting brought down the law, of course, predicting the Constitution, predicting our Rules of Procedure. Well, then, journalists, and what I've been saying everyone has their own journalist, a journalist each has his own MP, every club has its own office, this one has something else from the newsroom. But you can't relax your position, and the best position is if you're not in the media, then you're honest, then you're clean in front of everyone and everyone. Because there is no text, there is no camera, there is no comment that won't at first praise you as if you were engaged, so you've made a contribution, so you've reported many times, and it's not very good for me, but here to take advantage of the opportunity, and in the end, I said last time and I will always welcome NGOs, but, I don't know what I'm talking about, but I have to, my dear friend, really a friend of honest Ivica Čavar, he's going to go out to the conference with his team and say, "I'm going to say, "I don't know what you're talking about." And then what's worse compares us to Serbia and Croatia, and they're one-national states. As a crackdown, I am following, and this is an example of our Parliament, I am following two days of the session of the Serbian Parliament and they are discussing two days of ratification of two international conventions, and in each country, the international convention has a supermat above the domestic constitution. And they are discussing two days of two conventions and chaos started in Parliament. I remember our 35 ratifications, I don't remember ever saying anything about a ratification. But it came from the Bureau, someone signed it, whether the Foreign Ministry, whether the presidency, which is responsible, and then we find the best solution, and I'm the most pleased and I, let's ratify it in the package. We've never discussed this before. And thank Bog we didn't because the question is what would we open up to then, and then this agency would come along in that ratification that has nothing to do with the agenda. But here's to getting back to this agency. So there will always be a reason for the BiH Court of Justice to be declared responsible for something. If you saw and they estimated that in some criminal act there was a huge opportunity to confiscate some property, not that they would benefit the BiH budget and that agency that would manage the property, but that they would declare themselves to have done a revolutionary job, that they had reached a verdict historically, that property seized. And that, I'm ending, I'm going back to that motion initiative to get rid of me in that commission, so if we wanted to solve problems, we had our own committee that wasn't, she was an investigative one, but it wasn't that court, the prosecution, the take-out agency, and everyone we live in, repeated countless times, in just 100 or 200 meters, we're going to turn, at least two of us, we're not supposed to talk ugly about neighbors, neighbors are the most threatening, closer to relatives, but at least two of them in that neighborhood have acquired property in an illegal way. Workdays don't have, and three companies do, five companies do. So the woman reported there, the son over here, so I don't know, that I'm not going any further. So, from an agency like this, no one will benefit. Another thing, if there are agencies in the entities and we see that they have received some result, so I guess some other stimulant will understand and say -- people, these have done, let's do it at BiH level. But... only to commit BiH institutions, because the agency should be responsible for that, if they are entity competent for entities. So, I appeal once again, because I don't know, I say, a term that I can't beg you, don't give Bog the pressure, from where I'm entitled, that never in the process on the agenda do we come up with bill proposals for which in the beginning, but in the title of a law he knows he won't get support. And then what do we do, what do we do? We're exhausted. Fortunately, no one is going to argue about any bill between us colleagues, no matter what people we come from, no matter what political options we come from, they won't argue about it, they won't fight about it, maybe we'll always have a normal misunderstanding, but as soon as the break is together, we'll have coffee and it'll be okay. And we don't need any agency and any of it, even if you took it from someone, who would benefit? The people and the people will have none. What about this agency?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13711	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13712	Who warned me on time? Oh, well, thank you. I respect my colleague, Tomić, and I have to go back with him, because he told me it was time that I was breaking up right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13713	I thank the esteemed representative Jovičić, especially because he did not stay only at the conclusion that not only should time be spent on those laws that could not be adopted, but what he had exhaustively explained and was within time. 36 I see here on the display the application for the replica of distinguished representatives of Azra Hadžiahmetović, but according to our records she used her business right to replicas and I call on the respected representative Adnan Bašić, who applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13714	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Well, believe me, I didn't want to discuss it so much because I see that some people wanted to say what I had already imagined. But after all this, I'm a little confused and I'd add two other associations, although I'm not from the Fazlinović family now I wonder who's crazy here, who's confused and who's normal. Looks like the diagnosis hasn't been established yet, there's a lot of doctors among us. Ladies and gentlemen, I have another feeling that, you see from several previous speakers, it's not, it's obvious. Whenever this still troubled and poor country of BiH is mentioned as a state and its state rights are opened a new Pandora's box. It is illogical for me, which is why I am confused that the state parliaments, MPs of the State Parliament, spend the most energy on destroying the state, virtually. Anything stronger should be destroyed. Here, this is the best evidence. This is not some big law that will cause a storm in the BiH state. But it shouldn't be a strong state, the weaker it gets. Who does that suit? And we're all her State MPs. Never in this way will any of you say or think, and that's why I'm confused. But good. We're not all lawyers here, we're not graduates of law, there's different intellectual education, but I believe, a large number of good life experiences, that as laymanly as any citizen, we approach, of course, every law in the country where we live. We have to, life makes us understand the legal system of our country a little bit so we can act on it, right? So, by that logic and logic of common sense, I have set these things up the way I thought they would be set up in this House when it comes to this law. The ingenuity of logic is that there is always a lower and higher instance in everything. In this system, it's the judiciary. So the biggest instance of the BiH state is the BiH Court. If he initiated a criminal case against a person or an institution, or anyone who falls under criminal law, over whom he has ingenuity, then a complete process he leads and is his last, as the people would say. In this case, it's just one fact that's confusing. If the BiH Court of Justice is in charge of a case against someone who has been seized, it does not matter which and which one is mainly seized, the court seeks to find the possibility of protecting that property until the final verdict is reached. The other thing is what will be in that verdict. And we can't judge that. But the problem is, and that's what someone said, which I was thinking as a human being, and who's going to answer if that property is destroyed? From the RS, they openly say they have already passed those laws that regulate it. However, this is the BiH Court. His jurisdiction is this criminal procedure and definitely the last and final verdict is his and then he will decide what will happen to the property. But the court cannot then decide who will be responsible for her being destroyed, or sold out, or stolen, or devastated. And this, I realized, I ask you to understand me logically thinking, that here it's just about finally being founded or created by some body that will be under the auspices of the Court of Justice of BiH, because it's his jurisdictional procedure, how to preserve that property and ultimately, or return it to the owner, as one of you said, or simply confiscate it, and further proceedings are known. And nobody here talked about what would happen after that with that property. It's all based on who's gonna take care of that property. I think the most here, as far as I can tell, is a misunderstanding about it. Is that BiH's jurisdiction or 37 entities? I don't know, believe me, I'm confused again, I say. Those two suffixes and prefixes I'll leave out this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13715	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13716	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow representatives, members of the Council of Ministers, guests. Well, last time I spoke well of what I thought about the bill's proposal, and I'm going to repeat some things, so I don't think I've changed my mind. I think this is a law that shouldn't bother anyone, and last time I explained why you shouldn't bother anyone. It is an implementing regulation that allows the BiH Court of Justice to address a part of the problem concerning the management of the property that the court has seized in the process. So this is not an agency, and I'm going to do it again, because it was like this was an agency that was going to take away property, so this is not a law on an agency that would take away property, it's a law on an agency that should manage property taken away by the BiH Court of Justice. Point. And there are ways to do it. I don't see, I have to say, what has caused so much controversy and appeal to the Dayton Peace Agreement means, because usually when it comes to bigger things, then we reach out to the Dayton Peace Agreement and all the other agreements that have defined the situation as it is. Here is the second key issue, which has also been imposed all day of debate, to propose or not to propose the laws the question is now. So that's the key question. This is the legislative body and the basic function of this body where we are sitting, where we are representatives, is legislative activity. If the Council of Ministers does not propose laws, unless we propose laws, the purpose of this institution is to question. One of the basic activities of the Council of Ministers is also the proposed law. And we tend, as it suits us, to call ministers, the Council of Ministers for Inefficiency, not to work, etc., when they don't propose laws. And we have today on the agenda, one of the two sessions planned this month, we have eight legislative proposals, six of which are amendments and additions to, including this distinguished colleague Magazinović, who essentially changes two words in an article. And it's one of the laws of those six. We have two from the Council of Ministers, the other one will come to the agenda, so here we'll probably tell our opinion about what we think, where we already have a law, means that regulates the area, but here's an assessment of the Council of Ministers that needs a new law. And we have this law that, well, it will bring down all relations in BiH if we don't let Bog adopt it. And I have to comment on the occasional call from the fifth veins to the Dayton Peace Accords, so it's to create a picture so that we shouldn't possibly touch or think about mentioning that lofty word because God Bog we could cause a riot in this country. I will remind you, colleagues and colleagues, of only one thing that the entire state has been dealing with here for 2-3 years, so there is no solution. The court's ruling in Strasbourg in the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci case is in stark contrast with the Dayton Peace Agreement and its aneks vi, in stark contrast. So it's not the 38 Dayton Agreement, I'm going to turn a little bit now, turn a little record, not the Dayton Peace Agreement contrary to the Strasbourg Court, but the Court of Justice's decision in Strasbourg is contrary to the Dayton Peace Agreement. Let's conclude we don't respect that. The more we suffer, the more we entertain the public, the more we entertain for three years, the more we look for solutions to get us through it, and, yes, there's no one to give a shit. And we still don't have a solution. Contrary to this Dayton Peace Agreement, if we were to do so, are many other things or contrary to logic is the Dayton Peace Agreement. Contrary to justice is the Dayton Peace Agreement, contrary to rationality is the Dayton Peace Agreement, contrary to sound logic is the Dayton Peace Agreement. But don't accidentally touch him, don't touch him. Because we will continue to defend that holy cow, but we will occasionally mourn our own destiny because in this country, in 14 parliaments, laws are passed, and no one is obliged to bring them into line. And then we wonder where the chaos in the country came from. We call for rationality. What do we need 14 parliaments for? Is that rational, 14 governments? Is that rational? So if you want rationality, to go all the way, if we want rationality, then let's just make one agency in the state to manage the seized property, and manage all the assets that are taken away by any court in BiH. And that's rational. Where is that irrationally only if a state agency is set up, I mean by what criteria, I'd like the criteria to be explained to me? So this law is one of... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You don't have to like what I'm saying or like what many people say, but I don't interrupt anyone, I take my stand and I don't have the obligation to like anyone. So I'm talking about logical things, I'm talking about things where we call on the minister to evaluate. Will some club, some representative, accidentally support a solution that is within the framework of the procedure, within the standards to do and propose and pass the Council of Ministers? What kind of wizard is that? Who knows? We had a law here that didn't pass, that didn't propose this minister. I don't know either, and I was surprised. We all praised him here in the debate. Here, he's today as the subject of the College Report, right here in front of us. I don't know why that law didn't go through. What minister can do that under such conditions? What Council of Ministers can make any shift and any efficiency? Let's be correct, I mean just, means we say and set standards when we evaluate and evaluate and when we teach here to the ministers or I don't know anyone else. Let's just set the standards, and we'll make it easy then. We say no more, we've passed too many laws, we've brought too many agencies, we're only discussing laws that break the agency from now on. It's standard and let's go that way then. But I think we'll make a deal, and let's not just do what we want when it's right to read what's right for us. And the invitation, be careful, if we put out here all the laws in this country against which they were representatives of one of the constituent people, a lot of laws wouldn't go away if they called for a vote. I belong to a club and a people who are most often seen, probably in this country. The fact is, but we respect democratic procedures, we're not satisfied with it, but we respect it, and I don't see any reason to keep coming back. This is what I'm saying. It's not a problem for me. I can talk about this for three days. Let's just discuss the Dayton Peace Accords, here's 39, and I'm up for it, just to discuss it. And let's see, let's figure out all the parts of the Dayton Peace Agreement from preamble to the last sentence. I don't mind, so let's get this straight one more time, not just call it when it suits us and how much it suits us. So, this law is one of BiH's obligations from the Roadmap for the visa-free regime. This law, I repeat, does not take anyone's jurisdiction. This law sets up an agency, maybe there are too many other agencies that are unnecessary, let's open up a debate that is unnecessary so we can end them if we don't need them, but this agency needs them. He needs the BiH Court of Justice. The BiH court exists, laid the basis of the law. We can speak as much as anyone who supported or did not support the establishment of that court and how he supported it, I mean on which elements, but he exists to my people, he judges. So let's just try to put a little stuff in one context. We will discuss various recommendations from different institutions that are not binding on anyone. So who needs it more in this country today? I mean, either to work or to part ways, I mean, but really if we attack every attempt to propose a legal solution, I don't know how far we're gonna go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13718	Thank you. There is already a time when the minister called, but we have two more replicas and one debate, so will the minister at last or right now?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13719	Mycoofn not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13720	All right, replicated representative Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13721	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, if there was rationality in this House, we probably wouldn't be here today teaching each other what principle is, and when we support some laws, when we break some laws. So that goes to this point, to this extent that it is now being problematicd and challenging in general the legislative activity of this Parliament, as if legislative activity is just about when we need to pass a law, not when we need to bring it down. It was a law, colleague Lozančić, and when the SNSD Club proposed laws on the abolition of the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office, so that was considered, you rejected it from the first, so it was thought it was not at all, there was no need to discuss what we are asking, what we are questioning. And it was legislative activity, so we came to terms with it and accepted the SNSD Club that it was shot down here, that it wasn't accepted at all and that the law didn't pass. And as for the principle of the Dayton Peace Accords, I know that today for some in the Federation of BiH, it is evil to mention the Dayton Peace Agreement, but when it comes to this document, then sometimes people should think about it when certain things don't work out or don't do it the moment it's time to do it, they can then run and try forever that they'll never get there again. Likewise, when you talk about the Dayton Peace Agreement, you should have thought of it when you signed the Washington Agreement, so today 40 would probably not be talking about some things that can be called the common denominator of the equality of Hrvat in BiH. That's when you should have thought about whether the Dayton Peace Agreement or the Washington Agreement was better. And as far as the Dayton Peace Agreement is concerned, it is our best document, us in the RS, and we celebrate the day it was brought and we celebrate as long as there is an RS, no matter how much some people don't like it, and we will always defend it in this House. So, as long as the MP from the RS is the Dayton Peace Agreement for the RS will be the best possible and we will do everything we can to make sure that he does not change and that not a single letter that exists in him changes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13722	Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13723	I thank the chairman. As an MP, I would also like to comment on this proposal and this debate of previous rumors. And I think, first of all, colleague Slavko Jovičić said, when it comes to this Law, that in some way everything in the title, in preamble and so on, so focused, first of all on the entity of the RS, that it is not acceptable for him and the other MPs, etc. I agree in large part that everything should be respected, all the practical proposals of the entity's representatives, however, we should also respect what is at BiH level. As for counterpart Bašić, he said we just needed a little more, given that we are state lawmakers, that we have to work harder to do this. And in that I agree, however, with my colleague Bašić, you are as far as I know lately in the coalition with the majority party from the RS and so on, that I am not speaking yet from the Federation, but you should definitely sit down and agree to find the best solution that will solve these dilemmas that are ahead of us today. And I think about that, I'd recommend that you step up a little bit and that we solve this issue a little bit more easily. kolega. Lozančić, he said that it would be good in some way all these powers, all the courts possible by establishing an organisation or agency that would bring it all together and take care of it. I don't think it's objective or logical, either. It's not normal. As far as I know, working as, in the economy with courts, every court on every level has its own certain services, bodies in bankruptcy, or not only in bankruptcy, but in the executive procedure, it's known exactly, not this case since yesterday, courts have been doing it for the past 10, 15, 20 years, I don't know since they exist. I think as far as this illegally acquired property is concerned, it might be a good idea to think about it if we can't, we can't find a solution, because it's better than nothing. kolegica Marković, she is definitely saying that, regarding the Dayton Agreement, that we are practically, that we must stick to this Dayton Agreement. Yeah, but we only stick to what happens to someone. I think we should definitely watch the others. And I believe exactly the same to my Federation colleagues that we need to understand the opinions and views of the MPs from the RS, but I think we need to do something to practically come up with a solution in this matter that will make it easier for the courts to have a problem ahead of them. I would ask and expect the Proposer of this Law to explain to us in... whether it is pressure, whether it is from the international community of emergency, from the Directorate of European Integration, whether we really must and ultimately explain to us that we know whether we must, whether or not we should seek 41 consensus between the Members here to solve this problem. I think we should look for a solution in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13724	Thank you. Here's the minister, he'll definitely turn around, but here's no way to give him a chance. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13725	Thank you. The question of the law-proposing rights by the MPs is not part of the Dayton Peace Agreement, distinguished counterpart Marković, it is the business issue of this House and I have always advocated and will always advocate the right of MPs to propose the law whatever they want. So, this one, maybe you misunderstood me, means I'll never and never challenge the right of a representative or a representative club or a group of MPs to propose a law, I absolutely support it. Secondly, your finding that we should have thought at a time when we signed both the dejtonski and Washington Agreement, I absolutely accept on your part and that, yes no... I will not refuse you all. So I take it we really should have thought. And I respect this Dayton Peace Agreement, that we understand each other, I respect the Dayton Peace Agreement, but I don't like it. Watch it, so I respect it. It's normal if you expect me to say I like him, and I don't like him, then you expect me to do something crazy. So I respect him while he's in effect, so you won't have a problem with me about that. But I expect us all to respect him, not only when it suits us, but always. So, it doesn't suit me at all, but I respect him. So I expect the rest of you who love him to respect him even when he doesn't suit you a bit. There you go. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13726	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13727	Thank you, Chairman. I will begin where my colleague Kunić stopped when he said – I am sorry that he did not pass the Law on the confiscation of illegally acquired property. So, I agree with him, and although it's not a law that's on the agenda today, this law that we're discussing also reminded us that once here in Parliament we lacked so little to pass that law, but what is there. The property management law temporarily and permanently seized in criminal proceedings before the Court of BiH is a law that will receive absolute support from the SDP Club and even if it does not go into detail enough to read the explanation of this Law from which it is increasingly clear. Not only did one of the predecessors mention that the mapa for visa liberalisation in 42 responsibilities has been given activity to pass one of these laws, and hence the obligation, but it was very clear and precise in the explanation that this Parliament in 2009 reached a conclusion in which it tasked the BiH Council of Ministers on the preparation of the law. Now I'm asking the question, I checked, if I got the exact information, and there's no reason why it's not true, this conclusion was reached unanimously. I am now asking a question – are we playing like Parliament with the Council of Ministers? First we hire them to make the law, and then we say that the law is unacceptable at all to discuss it and we don't know why it came to parliamentary benches at all. Why aren't people when the proposed conclusion was said what is said today when, when a lot of time and resources are spent to make one of these laws. On the other hand, I understand the need for such laws to always open up the possibility of talking about the efficiency of the prosecution, to talk about the efficiency of the judiciary. I would very much like to ask, although it is not part of the Law itself, but in the explanation there stands which property, which year, in which amount was taken – how can we say, specifically in the Federation of BiH, since '97. To date, the financial police have documented over 550 crimes involving more than 1,700 people participating in them, where the estimated damage is more than 3 billion? How is it that all forty cases were taken into consideration and zero resolved to the end? But it's not a subject, but it binds us between the rest and the subject of this Law. Except it's not a topic, they can charge us, is that we're putting pressure on the prosecution, but there's a question that has to be asked. In this explanation, a section of the report on BiH's progress on what is also the subject of the Law is very clearly underlining, where it says that effective structures for the management of the seized property and its maintenance are lacking. And so I don't repeat what my colleague Lozančić said at the beginning of his presentation, so I think we went a little in the wrong direction, calling for Dejton, for ingenuity, and I don't know what. This is a very practical law that will allow what is ineffective, and with that assessment, those who propose this Law, and this same assessment by the court, is that the inefficient management system of this property, so to make it more efficient. And if we look at it that way, then there's no reason not to support the principles of this law. And if anyone has any objections specifically, there is an opportunity in the amendment phase to correct this Law. And once again in the end, the SDP Club will fully support the law, the principles of this Law as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13728	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13729	Thank you, Chairman. I just have to briefly refer to the words of the esteemed colleague Magazinović, who expressed regret here that we do not have the Law on the confiscation of illegally acquired property. I will immediately say no one from the RS will ever vote for such a law at BiH level. I'm impressed by your desire to fight corruption, but I don't know why, here in the Federation where the SDP has been in power for over two years, there's no agency that's going to manage the property that's been taken away from the 43 crimes before entity courts in the Federation and why has no federal law been passed to confiscate illegally acquired property? At least the SDP can do this as someone who exercises power in the Federation, if we are already an opposition in the RS, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia we could impose, and here is a draft of such a law to confiscate illegally acquired property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13730	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13731	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, out comes colleague Magazinović, but here's all this could have been warned in a simple way. Even the Court of BiH, and we have said several times, but that we are not going back to being legal, illegal and the Prosecutor's Office, if he makes such a verdict to take away property for why he can't say in his judgment - taken away property from that and that thief, acquired by shoplifting, by crime, as he wishes professionally called, is being placed at the disposal of the RS Agency, if that thief is from the RS. And if a Federation thief is in judgment, well, it's very simple, they write a creature on the basis of punishment, I don't know which criminal and correctional institution, and the property that has been taken from him by law is being taken away from the RS Agency(?) But again, there is now a trap, as soon as he comes to the BiH Court of Justice, from the RS, he is given the verdict each, and the prison, and the property, and the material, and the moral, and I don't know what other. Well, we all know from other objects that were there, and then it's a chain of continuous, uninterrupted chains from which there's no getting out. That's why this agency might have an effect in a country that's one-national, that doesn't have these other tensions. But give me an example of where a Srbin at the BiH Court, in any procedure and process, had equal treatment like other BiH citizens. Not at all, I have evidence, so I can explain it later.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13732	The word has the chairman of the House of Representatives, Dr Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13733	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Someone here said there's government in this country, maybe there is, but there's no government anywhere. And here's what we're dealing with is a temporary and permanent property management problem, and we can't agree on that. And then we all sue together as citizens and as advocates that the state is dysfunctional, that it's inefficient, that our resources are failing, and so on. I ask you, what will happen to 100 quintals of potatoes, we say, that are taken away in some process, temporarily and so forth. If we don't have a subject to manage it? So they're going to bend and fall. And finally, I'm really here, here I am going back to one thing that's my fresh memory of a trip to Baku. The 20,000-seat hall built in eight months, from Ledine to Eurovision Song Contes, and we here in Parliament can't get six computers and six laptops in eight months, because we're inefficient. Therefore, there is no one else here to talk about better governance than we do. 44 And here, I get... Replica, the honourable minister has called in a word a long time ago. [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13734	Replica, MP Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13735	My dear colleague, what you just said is interesting. Now that we look at it, let's say for example. The next law, which is, let's say, the Law on the Protection of New Varieties of Plants, where, with additional effort and consultation at all levels of government where you, a colleague of Ljubić, are participating, there was a full consensus among those who should have said their word about a specific legislative project. Such a project is given full consent and I believe that the next law will receive support in this Parliament. Which means that the proposer had no intention of passing this Law, he did not bother at all to get the support of all those who decide in BiH, and here everyone decides, both entities and constituent nations and you political party leaders are making that atmosphere. So, I don't think there was any intention of this law being adopted here. If there had been an intention, a procedure would have passed, like, for example. by the law that follows. So it's all the way down here, you'll see about this Law, so take a look at this Law, you'll see there when you take, like, for example. consultations in the process of lawmaking. And look who this biller consulted with, so you'll see that this is where he consulted the relevant entity ministries, so the Brcko District, so I don't know, I don't know, all sorts of other institutions, whoever he was interested in, had a chance to say anything about the Law. This Law was only said by the Proposer, is it not, in fact, intended for the Law to be passed? I hope we understand each other, colleague Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13736	Thank you. Justice Minister Bariša Čolak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13737	Thank you, Mr. President. Appreciable MPs, esteemed MPs. I will be very short because I am practically called by the distinguished representative Belkić for passivity. On the other hand, I feel called on why a legislative proposal like this is in Parliament's procedure in the first place. Believe me, this is not the whim of this minister and don't let Bog think that this minister's intention is not to pass this Law, and I've heard that. In fact, indeed, the Roadmap for visa liberalisation has defined, therefore, our commitments to this matter at that time. BiH does not have effective storage, management and availability mechanisms that have been acquired in an illegal manner. This Parliament reached a conclusion at the 55th session, held on 10 June 2009, by the Council of Ministers to prepare the law. If you remember the European Commission's 2011 progress reports, it is very clear that the lack of effective management, availability mechanisms, storage of this property has been seized on a temporary or permanent basis. I'm not going to say if all the proposals are the best, if they can be better. Of course I can. But trust me, every law on the Council of Ministers is meant to be passed unanimously. And where there were suggestions to make certain things right, 45 repairs, to leave out an article, and at the cost of less quality of that law, I will always accept it and I can tell you how many places I am in, how many cases I've done it. Of course, it's up to you to decide what you're going to do. Indeed, this is not about the management of the property seized by the BiH Court of Justice. You see, I can understand and understand certain MPs who rightly point to other things that they can have and have to do with this Law. So, I don't, in any case I don't want to deny it, but I believe that in this process that we are conducting, or in this structural dialogue, we will come up with quality solutions and we will certainly objectively object to what we appreciate is not objective, therefore, that there are not enough objective criteria or related to Article 7. The law on the BiH Court, that's a fact. Likewise, I think we will successfully resolve the second-degree issue at the BiH Court of Justice in terms of another independent court. I hope that you will also receive these laws very quickly in the parliamentary procedure and I hope that by the next structural dialogue we will have agreed solutions on this matter. I hope you agree, but believe me, it's very difficult to come up with harmonised solutions. And now, if you can't, therefore, come to a completely harmonised solution, the question is, therefore, not now the question of my choice, whether or not I will do something, but I simply appreciate if the obligation of this ministry that I'm currently on is that I have to do it. I say, whether solutions are best or not, it would be my wish if you mended that law, but normally you'll eventually decide. This law is certainly necessary, but I say it will eventually decide, first of all this Parliament will decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13738	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on item 5 of the agenda. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović (first reading) And here is a similar situation as in the previous point. At the 41st session of the House, held on 31.01.2013, no negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission was adopted, and the Committee was in accordance with Article 107(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure tasked with drawing up a new opinion. The new opinion was delivered by the Commission on 13.02.2013. The principles of the bill have been accepted. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13740	Your Honor, Mr. President. 46 I am reporting for the reason why I was prevented from attending the session of the Constitutional Commission when this Law was debated. And if I was there then I'd say what I'm about to say, and now I wouldn't say what I said there, I wouldn't say it now, I'm kidding, of course. So it is the fact that, in my opinion, some fundamental constitutional assumptions are not met that amendments and additions to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education are being discussed, because it is a matter that is not relevant to BiH, but is relevant to some other levels and bodies of the government. When, of course, we have passed the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, however, the fact that it is changing and supplementing, you will agree, of course, can create, most often and create, certain obligations towards these levels and authorities that are exclusively relevant when it comes to education. For this reason, in my opinion, it was necessary, in a procedural sense, that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to this Framework Law be accompanied by appropriate opinions, appropriate statements of these levels and those bodies of the authorities, and from the materials that have been sent to us and which we have not seen at all that such consultation was. For this reason, we at the HDZ Club cannot support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13741	Thank you. Honorable representative Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13742	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My koleginica and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers and Guests. If there is an area to talk about, regardless of jurisdiction and incompetence, current interest or lack of interest, it is certainly an area of education. Is it our jurisdiction, I think that we would have to seize it and consider it one of our main obligations, because education and culture, therefore, are two areas that we care so little about in our country and we take such bad care of them, based on the good functioning and future of every society as a whole. I will say very briefly that I fully support every amendment, addition, new law that will lead to a better, more orderly, all that is related to the area of education, and especially at these levels that this proposal speaks of changes and additions, so on the levels of primary and secondary education, where we form and create personalities that later in our society need to take all the roles of being as such, living and making progress. What I would particularly like to say is that I would like to thank the Proposer for the amendments and addition of the Law for Article 2, i.e. for the added points k), l) and m, in particular, underlining point l) – the education and education of students in accordance with the general cultural and civilizational values, human rights and children's rights, training for life in a multicultural environment, respecting diversity and tolerance, and for active and responsible participation in the democratic development of society. Is there anything more important to us today in BiH than that numbered in point I? We are witnessing daily increases in the rate of violence between high school students and eight students, we are witnessing that in schools in the BiH capital we have security guards who care about what is happening in an institution that should educate new quality and good personalities. Somewhere we've been wrong, somewhere we haven't given 47 enough rights or enough obligations to these kids who are being educated, and that's why I consider these changes and additions necessary. If there's still a way to work them out, if there are other elements to add to them, here's an opportunity for all of us to think about this more and make a contribution. Once again, I want to highlight education, especially young people's education at this age, is the obligation of all of us, regardless of where and how we work and how we contribute each and every one of us, and especially us as representatives in the BiH parliamentary parliaments is necessary and necessary. I would like to thank Mr Bećirović for his proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13743	Thank you. Dear representative Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13744	My replica refers to the presentation of colleague Dervoz. But before I say what the replica is, I mean that I don't think anyone needs to be here today, we don't need to be convinced at all how important education is, especially in a young generation. So it's clear to everyone here and we're all aware of those facts and needs. But we also shouldn't represent things that if education isn't at BiH level, it doesn't exist. It could be, if someone wanted to conclude that from the presentation of colleague Dervoz, they could conclude that too. But I didn't answer for it, but I answered for a sentence she said when she spoke about whose jurisdiction education was, so you said whether we had jurisdiction or not, I think we should grab her. Dear colleague Dervoz, I can accept that it is a lapus lingre, which means that you said it with a slip, but the place where you say it calls you to account for such spoken words and attitudes and it points out and says that as long as it is believed in BiH that we can do something on the principle that we kidnap or grab something, it's a great formula that the country doesn't work. And if you think it should be adopted by these or similar laws, then you're on a great path not to do any of that and that nothing works here and that should work. So, I ask you to keep an eye on it, we all know very well what it is, what levels of jurisdiction are at, where it works, and these and similar findings can only make good intentions worse, someone if they had a good intention of something that could spoil that story.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13745	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Ismeta Dervoz, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13746	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have no intention of producing new replicas now that I can come from what I'm about to say, but I think I do. Most of the people I live with, work and communicate with don't think about it in a way that we take something from someone, share, distribute, keep it for ourselves, or protect 48 from someone else. We are always thinking about how by synergy, joint action, we can seize for ourselves the opportunity and privilege to participate in a process that will lead to the improvement of life in our country, if it is possible for us. So in this context, I used a term that you didn't like. That's not how I think, that's not how I think we can think in this Parliamentary Assembly. Our task isn't just to make differences, it's our job to try and get close, to negotiate and to find solutions to the problems we're talking about. So, to seize the possibility, Mrs. Marković, together with you to change some things in BiH for the better, it was my intensity and my intention will always be, and I invite you to join. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13747	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13748	Well, since this one, I see, is a heated debate, so I don't mind saying a man's debate. Since you don't use very strong arguments in this I'm going to find a connection with one of the previous points when we said that things that are regulated in a different way and you know where they shouldn't be again and when we know what the outcome is. But here's a dear colleague of yours, I assume you know what you said and a summary, you're what you're talking about to seize the opportunity to seize that possibility in the Soca. So Republika Srpska has no jurisdiction or connection with Stoc and I don't see any progress and any happiness from that acquired opportunity. When you solve that acquired possibility in Stoc, then we'll see that you have a good intention, but when I see how you intend to solve the stolac, then we can't talk this way. Ignore the stolac and talk about something else I don't think is right. We've told you a few times that someone who in a detour wants to solve certain problems, which he could solve on his own, over the back of another, which people would say, is probably not going to go through here. And we've done that a few times so far, and I don't think we should repeat it, because there's always that folk, it's a little inappropriate, when there's something wrong in your yard and you neighbors are giving a lecture on how to handle it. But Bog, when you clean up, clean up, and say, "Well, then no one can, no matter how much he disagreed with you, can stay silent on those arguments not to say -- well maybe, maybe that's civilization progress, let's see if we could do the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13749	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. I'm sorry, it's too late to tell the truth, but the replica was presented by a distinguished representative of Ismet Dervoz. Excuse me, Mrs. Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13750	I'm sorry... I was pressing the wrong button. I don't know how we got to what Mr. Kalabić is talking about. Obviously, there are well-trained systems here to get 49 away from anything that is positive, well-intentioned, spoken in the context of a desire for progress, cooperation and improvement. So, forgive me, I'm in this, Mr. Kalabić, I admit, I'm completely ignorant and I can't participate, but I'm not going to take the opportunity to learn that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13751	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go. Or, again, I apologize, distinguished representative Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13752	Now, whether I understand you or not, but I won't comment, but I have to tell you -- if you don't understand things, you're taking our time, so you're taking our time. You're saying there's a chair in Montenegro. So you've had a chance to show this will and energy in a constitutional way with your political party and with the authority in which you're participating to solve it in Stoc. What's the problem with going to the chair? Is that our country? Yes, and work it out, where you have all the constitutional and all the other powers, but it's not going. It's not working. And now you're here to say -- no, I won't, it can't, but I'll do it in a different way. It can't be different, it can't be different because you're running away from that debate and you want it here where it doesn't have a basis. It doesn't work here. So you wouldn't solve these questions because you think, don't let me be your translator, because you think you've solved it with the Hrvat. They're not asked anything, they don't vote, you vote them, and you probably think that's a settled question down there. Now let's get this over with. Well, you see, he can't. Now that's the point of the story, which you say is that there is no chair for you and that you don't want to solve it because you probably think it's settled. It's not the only stolac, I don't know what I took just that place, but I'm telling you about the inaccuracies in this Parliament that year after year, someone who honestly believes in this shared story is not going to solve it in their backyard, but is looking at it there, if he could find a solution over the back of the third. I'm not sure that you don't understand this, but perhaps you expected us not to talk about it this way. And by the way, I'm not going to answer for the discussion, and if I could, I'd withdraw my vote for that law I voted here for higher education. The law, not for the reason it was adopted at the state level, not for that reason, has caused unprecedented damage to BiH's education and has created an unprecedented belaj which, the question is whether generations will be able to solve it. That's another story.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13753	Thank you. At least I don't have on display that now she appears, therefore, to the esteemed representative of Aleksandra Pandurević, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13754	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I have to say that the colleagues from the SDS who sat here in the last meeting didn't vote for this Framework Law either because we think he's unconstitutional. But it's weird. As for these 50 amendments and additions, proposed by the esteemed colleague Bećirović, let's say here we accept only this Article 1 and Article 3 standing. Everything else I fear would cause damage and confusion and is very often in contradiction with entity and cantonal laws. Let's say in this Article 2 that speaks of general objectives is called for equal rights and availability and so on. without discrimination against the place of residence or residence. So please, the school's enrolment areas are based on the place of residence and residence. What would..., here I will give you a concrete example, a distinguished colleague of Prodanović knows this, there are two elementary schools in Bratunc, one of which is excellent, among the best primary schools in RS and whose students in each generation win one first place in BiH and even in world competitions in mathematics and physics. All parents will, because the school has a much stronger teaching frame than the other, all parents run when the school year is looking for connections, they want to enroll their children in that school. What do we do now that we give them this legal opportunity? That other school would have run out of students. So this is an absolutely unacceptable provision. Furthermore, Article 5 says – secondary schools can be organised as general and professional. The law on secondary education and education of RS says – depending on the type of curricula and school programme can be established and registered as a gymnasium, art school, technical school, vocational school, religious school, school for students with special needs. Do you know what this would mean? That we have to change the entity law, that we have to reregister all schools, that we have to make a whole new organisation of the education system. As far as this Article 6 is concerned, I think it's completely unnecessary because this is all defined already in the existing entity and cantonal laws. So I'm afraid, perhaps the proposing's intentions were best, but I'm afraid nothing of this is coming to pass, but yes, except for a lot of new problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13755	The word is Dr Božo Ljubić, chairman of the House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13756	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I am not against, of course, the area of education that is under the Constitution and BiH, and entities, and cantons, counties, being placed in jurisdiction, therefore, of entity, or county levels of government. So I'm not against regulation at the level of standards and framework law, or what we're going to call it, at the state level. And therefore, of course, I respect both the motives and I appreciate and the efforts of my colleague Bećirović, who has worked hard to propose to us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law, which we already have, on basic and secondary education. However, just respecting the fact that it is one of the most important areas for every society, and also for the state, I think that it is best to come to such a law in a way that within the competent ministry, which is in the Council of Ministers of Civil Affairs, consults with the levels of the authorities that are essential to this area, therefore with entities, with the counties, or rather with the entity when it comes to RS and with the counties when it comes to the Federation. Because I want to remind my fellow MPs and MPs here that the Federation Constitutional Court has ruled that the Federal Ministry of Education is unconstitutional and should have been shut down long ago. However, as the debate has already opened here and on certain issues from the content of this law I will here only focus on Article 21a) and this is the end which it says – the obligations of 51 students are, under (a) attending compulsory... programs and other forms of educational work which it has chosen, upholding the rules of home order, respecting... teachers and teachers, professional staff, school directors and employees who are in accordance with legal regulations and order, keeping textbooks and other educational means. I think the Framework,... especially the law should not enter into matters of home policy in schools because it can be regulated more efficiently and in more detail by other regulations, so much lower rank. And if we're already regulating that, then this law, then I guess it should be, predicting some sanctions that are sanctions for students who don't comply with it, because the law without sanctions, in fact, does not make sense. So here I am, in some ways, apologizing for taking some sort of argument and fellow Franjičević, for these reasons, of course, we cannot support this law. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13757	Well, I want to believe that all these discussions today won't be a waste of time and that... something that will serve us as a memory for future bill proposals. I believe that neither the Council of Ministers... we are not satisfied that they are not listening, but here we have someone who follows on behalf of the Council of Ministers, so I hope that they will pass on all these things so that no one can think of making bill proposals that they know in advance that they will not pass. I want to say this for the simple reason that it is evident that the promoter knew that this is the jurisdiction of the entity or canton and that is not the first law that he proposed which, which he knew would not receive support. That's not his goal. All the proposals made by this promoter have always been related exclusively to raising temperature. And none so far, as a young man who could really make a full contribution to getting things right here, he didn't make a single, little contribution. There were MPs who suggested things but sat in that place and proposed exclusively laws that were anti-constitutional it was unmarked. There's one thing that's our RS mistake, and that's that we believed that the framework laws that are being passed here will serve as a measure to be within the canton, when it comes to education, and the RS will create some environment, and that will serve to adjust. After a few cases we had the chance to see, the moment these laws were passed in the Federation, it was cross-referenced and it became the law on this or that in full form. It means we never have to happen again, and it's not gonna happen to us, to adopt framework laws, because they've shown what they are. So I told you about the promoter, and we really know as soon as we look at the proposal that he is, and as soon as we look at the topic that he touched, we know that she's directed against someone, never for someone, because if she were, he would do something about those things that he would have influenced. ...let's say for activities related to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the state of the DKP network and everything its head is party, where it could very easily help BiH make a serious step, on this topic the promoter has never said a single word. So what I'm saying is, if you were thinking, you didn't think you knew in advance, that by accepting such a proposal from your law that we would agree to derogate the law that... in the RS. You knew we wouldn't. So, if you thought we were going to cheat, I guess you and that concluded that so far no law that smelled of the transfer of jurisdiction was possible, it couldn't have passed. Now you've heard from colleagues in the order of the Croatian people who say also don't touch what's anti-constitutional. It's probably funny to you now, but that laugh 52 will surely disappear the moment you know that nothing, not one of your proposals will receive our support in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13758	Thank you. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, vice-president, discussed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13759	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We here who are in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly had to learn to get used to some absurd and illogical situations, and that seems to be an integral part of our job. I must say, it was clear to me already on the Constitutional Commission what time it was regarding this law. So you can hardly find an example in a country of the world to have one law passed by the State Parliament, so the law was passed, and then when the vote on constitutional basis is said there is no constitutional basis for its amendments and additions. But there, that's our situation. However, to begin with, it should be said that this law did not fall from the sky. The law was passed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, and the majority of votes needed in both homes and the majority of votes needed from both the Federation and Republika Srpska. So that's a fact, that's what I believe we can't argue about. As long as we have the law, it is quite logical that each authorised proposer has the opportunity to democratically propose amendments and supplement that law. Whether it will be accepted or not is now a matter of MPs sitting in a particular house, or in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I have to say about this law that three years ago I proposed much more extensive amendments and additions to this law. And I followed closely what my colleagues and colleagues were saying about the law at the time. By preparing this law, I took a stenogram from that session and threw everything out of the law what were the remarks three years ago. So he left only what was not problematic in that debate, hoping in the best hope that we could at least adopt those amendments and additions that do not pass on any jurisdiction because there are no amendments and additions here. But what's there is. This isn't the only law that's going to fall today, it looks like it's a trend to drop the laws of the Council of Ministers and MPs and so on, and it's a much wider story now, and I'm not opening up some big debates about the Constitution and some other things. There will be time, space and theme when we can talk about it. On the other hand, I am convinced that, let's say, some have talked about the rights and obligations of students, one of the most responsible obligations of every man in life, in my opinion, is the role of parents. I do not believe that any parent in both the RS and the Federation of BiH would have any objection to these rights that students in schools and so on should have. After all, when you look at similar laws, regardless of the jurisdiction, other countries have, in a similar or completely identical way, prescribed it. However, we must, therefore, get used to this Parliament that there is both a second and a different opinion. We are chosen here by the will of our voters, we represent the political options, we represent the citizens of BiH, this is the House of Representatives. What has most will pass, what doesn't and that's it. Thank you. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13760	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Vrankić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13761	Thank you very much. Here, I'll just make up for what my colleague Bećirović said – what has most will pass, what will not pass, and here is the problem, and there is the beginning of the problem and perhaps the end of BiH if it continues to work like this. BiH is a country of three constituent nations that should be equal and not. Today, we are talking about an education that is one of the basic elements that makes a nation self-determined, constitutive, or even, gives it the opportunity to show its basic characteristics, its language, its speech. We have come to the position that where it is and the Constitution according to its jurisdiction has arranged that it is happening at the county level, is, through all mechanisms, trying to get away from that level so that through the processes that are happening we begin to forget our language. I haven't asked a question here many times or started what belongs to me right when I come by these offices believe there are no 1% of the documents in Croatian. But here, sometimes I find a fragmental cost, don't, so we'll sort it out somewhere else. So then we ask ourselves the question that we can go to school, so I don't know, so some respected people ask us why, I got that question, why my child isn't in Sarajevo and doesn't go to school in Sarajevo, because I live in another part of BiH, as if it wasn't BiH. And I want to say that I have been humiliated, although I am Catholic, and I respect the Catholic school centres, that my child is going to BiH to the Catholic school center. When I'm in Rwanda, then I'd be happy to accept it and be grateful that they made it possible for me, but in this country I want to go to school where I study according to the Croatian curriculum and program. And this is just an introduction to what I'm trying to say. That these things are already well covered in previous laws and there is no need to solve them through this law now framework, which in one element may and may remain, as the chairman said, in the elements of the basic framework but not in the implementing regulations that continue to treat it. And I would ask that in one way, I haven't answered any of the previous points, you've already noticed that I just don't like this kind of debate because we know everything, we know around here every time it goes against this button how it's going to discuss, what's its political view and what it represents. But we have to get back to the beginning, and what you don't like to say here in Parliament, we're all through political parties, so we're creating parliamentary majority, and I think it's something that we need to understand once at a political level that we need to reach a consensus and try to make this country to measure all three people and all of its citizens, and not spend these hours and taxpayers' money, to go do concrete work. I asked the question today or the previous time – does BiH have a development strategy? I haven't been to the session for the last time but I got the answer today, so since I haven't been read in that part I haven't even shown myself to that answer, then, is it very easy for you to see that we don't have basic postulates in this country, we don't have development strategies, the answer we've got is embarrassing, embarrassing for this institution, for whoever sent it, let alone to talk about some basic or other human things that must belong to every human. So I appeal once again with less tension, I often don't do it, so I say, with more will and desire to arrange BiH 54 and custom all three people, and I assure you that the Croatian people have politically shown in recent years that they are highly constructive, interested in BiH but we are looking for a place in BiH and don't even try to make us the institutions and institutes that make us a people disdain and that someone is taking them away from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13762	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13763	If we were talking about a whole new law and that, here we are, and this is how we express our views I wouldn't support it but I would try to understand, but we're talking about amendments and additions to the law that is already in force. That's why I'm a little surprised that the bile around the changes that I'm proposing, which is why I don't see any reason to talk about them this way. On the other hand, this law was an opportunity, that is, its fate on the Constitutional Commission once and for the second time, to see that the law adopted in this Parliamentary Assembly, that its amendments and additions may be challenged by the constitutional basis. I understand that someone disagrees with some law but that the constitutional basis is disputed is unclear to me. And I was the first member of the Constitutional Commission to raise my hand several times to have some constitutional basis to go to Parliament for what I did not finally vote on. It's not the same thing. But good. We see in which direction the vote will go and there is no need to convince each other in which way we should vote, the result of the vote will be what it will be. But I find it alarming that part of Article 2. Changing and supplementing laws on equal rights and availability of education to children without discrimination and gender-based separation, ethnic, religious, social or other belongings, so that I do not continue to do what is listed may be problematic for anyone in this room. But obviously we have a problem here, too. This concerns me, not for the reason that this member and this law will pass or not, but because it is very simple to pull the parallel with an immerative requirement and our obligation to resolve the ruling in the case of Sejdić and Finc against BiH that says nothing but what is written here – that we all have equal rights, instead of education, as in this law, to be candidates, to choose and be chosen without discrimination based on exactly what is written in this article. And that's why I'm sorry that we talked about this segment of the law that way because it makes me skeptical about the implementation of the verdict that we're talking about and that we've all defined in a certain way that we agree on its final implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13764	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić, replica. Here you go. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13765	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, as much as we try to make the session more efficient in some way and that things that have already been defined are not required to be defined here again, I have to direct the replica to Mr. Saša Magazinović who says – who is against the fact that children are equal, that they are not discriminated against, that they all have the same rights. So find it in any law, here I don't know how it's regulated at entity level, at Federation level, but take the Law on education of the RS, so you'll see if there's any kind of discrimination in that Law. That is why I, with full respect for the proposing who has the right to propose, but do not put ourselves in a position to debate and today this Parliament is accused of not accepting the provisions of the law prohibiting any kind of discrimination. Well, for God's sakes, here's 20 almost years since the war on here, education at the level of entities and cantons, and I think at least this basic and middle can be praised for that. Take an example of Germany, almost our delegation was. And there's the same education at the level of the province and they don't mind. It looks here, which is why I don't like to pour oil on fire and cause replicas, here everything that isn't on the state level is a problem. No, let's go. I'm not even an advocate. There's not gonna be much going on, but let's start with what we can discuss, what we live on, and that's the real sector and its production. And that's where we try to fix the standard of our citizens, not to outwit ourselves here now with certain proposals of certain laws that are already well and defined, and are not at all in our jurisdiction. So I'd like to ask you to refrain from making such statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13766	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the agenda point and giving a half hour for lunch. I'll see you in an hour. [[PAUZA]] My colleagues and colleagues, we continue the debate. It's number seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Protection of New Plants in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13769	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I would just say that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties in BiH should be adopted, especially from the point of view of European integration. It is obvious that the Law is well prepared, that those who have proposed, i.e. the Health Protection Agency of BiH, implemented a good procedure in terms of which it has consulted relevant EU actors who have confirmed the possibility of making proposals to improve the law. Then there was a situation where all relevant factors from both the Federation and the RS gave their opinion, which is mostly positive, and there was a proposal for a law that should really be adopted with, I am just saying the views of these European integrations, because it is absolutely in line with European integration and of course with the Agreement and all other relevant flows. So I'm going to support this law and I think it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13770	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13771	Very briefly, I have no intention of taking the time. So, absolutely the law is acceptable to me and everything that Vesna was talking about. However, one thing worries. If you look closely, you'll see that we've lost 2-5 years needlessly. So, the consultations on coherence were done only after the Law was passed, so we lost 2.5 years in practice by agreeing and so on, so I practically want to give a kind of criticism and regret that we missed 2 years of membership in the Union, and probably that membership brings some benefits. And, the key reason why I came forward – is there any way we can try this on an emergency procedure or a shortened procedure, if there is nothing I don't see that bothers anyone here, because it's about membership in this International Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13772	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13773	Well, here we can see that this law is obviously beyond what it has created as a need to comply with European legislation, there is one more important thing that will make representatives of the RS vote for it. So, the proposer, which means the Plant Protection Agency, first formed the Commission. A representative of the RS Ministry has been appointed to the Commission. After the work was done on that job, 57 coordination was done again and everything that was the subject of the debate on any matter has been brought into line. So, laws like this, with a proposal like this, in this way, discussed, will always get us through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13774	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13775	Thank you. I want to comment no matter what I'm the least of this brand. But by reading this bill, believe me, I'm surprised that this law too, if it's so important and so important to BiH compared to all the other laws we've discussed, I think, and I'm surprised that we're definitely so unique and complex now that we have to adopt it. Look, I'm primarily interested in why there are no arguments in all the reasons, here's a look at the words in Article 2, please just one word changes and we have a real miracle in BiH and we have to adopt it. I'm interested in the consequences of that, and there's no explanation for it. It says this, in Article 2(2) point 1) of the indent 1) – the words “which have created or discovered, developed or produced a new variety”, are replaced by the words “which have created or discovered and developed a new variety”. Please nice, what does that mean? The second thing, he says in indent 3 – "which is the legal follower of the person who created or discovered, developed or produced a new variety" is replaced by the words "which is the legal follower of the person who created or discovered and developed a new variety". It's a change. And they are such... an emergency procedure, or I don't know what procedure, but I definitely think it would be good for us to get, MPs, you who know, who have been in Parliament for 10 years, I don't know how much, possibly that it's clear to you, but I would ask that because of the public, we have one explanation for ourselves. Here, see Article 8 also says: "until the day of submission of the application" are replaced by the words "at the time of submission of the application", and the words "generally known until the day of submission of the application" are replaced by the words "generally known from the day of submission". What does that mean now? Is it material, is it immaterial, what is it about? I'd really ask if I didn't count. Here, and in Article 12, 14. And t-t-t-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m. Look how interesting it is to discuss these things, just like the previous bill. Let's explain what it means from or to. Please, and I believe that around this law, I until I get an explanation I definitely don't see any reason what's so important. Someone must have an interest. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13776	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13777	Well, I understand this young MP that he's kind of handicapped than we are older is. That's exactly what you're saying there are some, some of the changes. So it's true that there are some changes and changes that are as natural as you say, seemingly irrelevant and so forth. However, if you have carefully looked at the argument you have seen that this Law has been passed through this Secretariat of the International Union for the Protection of New Species of Plants and that certain suggestions have come from there in terms of professional terms of production, transport. The differences are great in those terms. Thus, this Law is not irrelevant. And for a little while I said Zijade, but here I see you're not listening to me, I just said that the key thing is that these changes and additions allow us to enter the International Union. Now I don't know if the vice president suggested anything else to you? If so, let me answer you. But let's adopt this, so we have plus one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13778	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13779	I think this is what I've been reporting. And we, indeed, as far as the bar and us and our party, of the SDA are concerned, we will not be against any law regarding the European path. But what I really wanted to find out, to see an explanation of what it means, what is behind it, because we also had the same debate in the previous Law, that is, the bill of law, where many activities were done, but we said it wasn't going, because these professional services were acting differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13780	Thank you. Dear Representative Borislav Bojić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13781	Respecting the need and interest of MPs to speak about the law in question, I will take advantage of the opportunity that as a member of the Committee, i.e. as chairman of the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, I say that we have carefully considered this legislation although it may not matter from or to you, but it is very important whether it is a new year or a new year, so there are huge differences, you know. So I would not engage in that part of the clarification from or to, but I would look anyway and believe what it says, so the Office of Law which finally gave its opinion, and I believe there are professional people who can do far better than me certainly, perhaps not from you, but far better than me to see if these things that you're talking about are precise in the Law itself. 59 I would not say that it could have missed something here for those who took part in consultations on the process of making the law, and here they participated, among other things, in the competent entity and Brcko District. I'm sure they've been watching every word. I'm totally convinced of that. Finally, experts who were appointed through the IPA project also participated in the consultations here. So, support for the BiH Plant Protection Authority. I'm absolutely sure they didn't miss or miss both the point and the point. If something is missed, it must have been carefully looked at by the opinion given by the European Integration Directorate, which also observed the law in question. If you look further at the reasons of your colleagues..., when it comes to the EU and the suggestions that included this bill when it comes to EU liquids, that part is covered. So I wouldn't say there's something here that's not covered. After all, all representatives of the Brcko District's competent authorities, I said just before both entities, directorates and so on, agencies that, even the Gender Equality Agency, had objections. One member, asked to amend that member and that objection by the Gender Equality Agency was incorporated into the Law in question. And no one has made a single remark on the Commission. So, my colleague, I don't think there's any reason that you and the U.S.A. don't support the law in question. I assure you, the law is not harmful to anyone. This one is a Bennigan and where luck should be given to every law as it is dedicated to this law. When there is a consultation to the extent that it has been around this Law and all levels of government are involved, as they are involved in this case, I am convinced that the laws will go much faster and better in the procedure in the House of Representatives and without certain things that we will discuss in some other place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13782	Thank you. I find it particularly important that what the Committee for Gender Equality gave its position, given that plants have a fist and a cup. I'm closing the debate at point 7. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for a law on refugees from BiH, displaced persons and returnees – Proposer of the BiH Council of Ministers (first reading) The BiH Council of Ministers delivered the proposal's procedure on 10.1.2013. Competent Joint Committee for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics. The Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional legal basis on 13.02.2013. The Commission submitted its opinion on the principles on 13 December 2013. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13784	Thank you. I would refer to the necessary financial resources to implement the draft law. As we all know, a clear return does not take place with that dynamic in BiH that has been planned and no plan on this matter has unfortunately been achieved. And here, on average, it's 20 years since, therefore, 16, from 18 to 22-3 years, it's been on average since people were moved from their hearths and they've been damaged by material and physical issues. The funding here is presented by the Strategy, which was designed to require approximately 1.3 billion KM, or 900 million for the rebuilding of houses and 400 million for the infrastructure. It was also said that some of the funds will come from the Council of Europe Development Bank, OPEC and the Saudi Fund and the same from the 101m-euro Donor Conference. So, a total of about 320 million funds are under way to get for this part. And it's been said that entities and Brcko District set aside at an annual level of around 45 million, which means we have almost a billion uncovered left. And with this dynamic, if entities and Brcko District continue to stand out, so that billion, about 25 years should still be allocated for that part. So 25 more years and these 20, 45 years. As planned, if it were 45 years ago, we would be solving a return, which is the famous saying when it comes to law and justice, maybe slow justice is the greatest injustice. So we have that statement if everything goes according to plan. And even today at this debate, we knew here today that BiH is not going according to plan and we heard that BiH has no development strategy at all and no way forward. And we have a Council of Ministers, we have a chairman, we have a party that fought to appoint that chairman. I don't know what the problem is. Why don't they do it? A key at the level of the BiH state, which unfortunately neither the Council of Ministers, to some extent this Parliament, has so far contributed to BiH's development and has tools in their hands, economic policy. Unfortunately, in this House too, here are two years since I've been in it, at least there have been discussions, and under quotes, and disputes over economic policies, and key economic policies at the level of a state that is fiscal, monetary and foreign trade, in order to meet this plan and not cheat like so far because we've made false promises to people who have really suffered damage and who really need to be compensated. So these key policies, unfortunately, are neither proposed by the Council of Ministers nor adopted by this Parliament. Fiscal policy, we know the basic pillar over 60% The budget on the public account is from VAT. We still do not know what the policy is, and we know that the state is bad, and therefore the basic tool is not used. Monetary policy, truth here we are constrained with a certain part, but to make that repair and especially foreign trade policy. We had here a Mr. Chairman's initiative and my post-it initiative, I would say not the protection of domestic production, but the position of our domestic production, therefore we don't have. I once again, as my friend Slavuj has said, I appeal that, if we want this one, I agree that this law should be passed, but if we want to implement it, if there is no dead letter on paper again, and if there is no delusion for all those to whom it applies, then we need to look back at these key three economic policies and here to make a move and to really find the means and to make this law come true. So much for me, thank you very much. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13785	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13786	Well, here's what I'm trying to say is that after a long time and a long time, this law has come into parliamentary procedure. I want to remind the House of Representatives that it is the result of the revised return strategy, which was only a return, and then we know that by intervention in the House of Peoples that this has been changed and that all three rights are now practically represented. And that means the right to return, the right to remain and the right to compensation for damages, and that all three rights are equally represented in this Law. What is the problem with this law? The problem is that he comes more than two years after he should have. So it took a while to get the law ready, but what's the problem? We are now in a position that the funds are much more reduced than they were at the moment when the revised return strategy was adopted. And now we are in a position for the Budget of BiH, for which, here is Article 6 to speak clearly where the funds are taken, that the Budget of BiH is, the document of the Framework Budget has been adopted by 2015 and will not be changed. So you can't take funds from that level. The budgets of the entity, the Brcko District, the canton and the municipalities were never asked. It's not correct to write in the Law that we'll take money from those we haven't consulted on. And finally, from the loan at the time this Strategy was adopted, all said BiH should take a billion loans and settle, finally put an end to the issue. Now we're three years later and each of these parameters that I've been talking about is problematic to ourselves. There's one more thing that's problematic even if the law goes through like this. What I found out now when I was preparing for this law was something that really surprised me. The RS government has allocated around 70 million marks to return to RS since 2008. At the same time, the Federation government set aside only 2 million Srbin in the same period for the return to the Federation. So 70 a on the other side of 2 million. Today, the Human Rights and Refugees Ministry database states that 15.5,000 requests for the reconstruction of Serbian homes in the Federation and at the same time about 13,000 requests for the return of Bošnjak and Hrvat, but I must point out, given the high percentage of the return to RS, this is already about the second and third generation. So, when we adopt the law as it is, the RS would have had to redistribute on a regular basis, so here it is said that as long as the return is not realized, it would still stand out in the way it's singled out so far, and unlike that, the Federation would, in principle, have tried to isolate only 2 million in 6-7 years to remain on that principle. That's something to talk about. So I have no objection to the law itself. The law solved everything we thought was problematic. It was subsequently formed, in fact, proposed by the refugee and displaced Commission, which is concerned with ensuring that all that money is evenly distributed. And instead of the former Fund of Returns, we have the Fund for Refugees and Displaced Faces, we have many things that are well-advised. But this doubt is that one entity will strictly abide by what is stated by the law, and the other will forget about its obligation, remains. And now, when I analyze everything from the aspect of the law's regularity and from the aspect of respect for that law, I see that there is, therefore, a great dilemma and Serbian representatives should think about it. If so far it is not respected and if such a disproportionate is 62 so far, then I really don't know how when we adopt this, will the RS be redistributing so much funds at the expense of others. Here, therefore, are some of the dilemmas that should be solved before the definitive adoption of the law, not claiming that principles should not be supported.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13787	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13788	Here, before I begin the discussion on the draft of the law itself, a brief information for Mrs. Majkić. So, this data as much as the entity and so on, let me remind you -- there are ten cantons in the Federation that have ministries of displaced persons and refugees, and there are budget funds that are implemented for this purpose and across the canton, so there's no need to be afraid that someone here will be particularly deceived, so, but all this can be calculated. But the bottom line is that there are clear signs that this law has a high degree of consent. He also passed the commission unanimously, I see, and qualifications passed, consultations passed, although it doesn't say there whether the entities gave consent, just says they were done. It is true that there are no new agencies, no institutions, but names have been changed. However, as we speak of these unique rules and these mandatory consultations, it would be good to have you, since it is very professional people who have worked on this Law, that you have also submitted a review of the sublegal acts that will have to be adopted under this Law. It's, in my opinion, what I could have done, about the significant number of sublegal acts, and it's about matter that's pretty serious, which will be governed by these sublegal acts. So it would be good if we had that review. I mostly agree with what Mrs Majkić was talking about, when she reminded us of the revised strategy for implementing Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement, on the subject of equality and all three options established by the Dayton Agreement and so on, the 2009 Strategy. So we then opted in the most important part to put priority on the essential conclusion of the return process. Then, as I recall, it was about 40 and a few thousand registered families to return. And these figures, which Dušanka spoke of or Mr Lijanović, are 1,300,000 – 900 for the reconstruction of housing units, infrastructures and we are even on two occasions, this Parliament has reached conclusions in which the Council of Ministers tasked to initiate the procedure, the provision of credit funds once 400, once 500 million in the direction of the return process and so on. Three years later, we don't really know what's going on. And it would've been good if we had gone into this project before it started if we had information about what happened to these goals that we had, when it comes to definitely ending the return process. The second law treats these three rights and I absolutely have no dilemmas that they are equal and so on. However, in some ways this return by this law puts the implications on the other side, and the two other ways come out first. So the choice of the second, the right to choose 63 other residences, compensations, damages and so on. Without elements or indicators, not even in an explanation of how quantitatively we have no data, how many of these categories we have by numbers and in some way trying to orientate and financially express how much these projects would cost to achieve these rights. So without this really accurate data, it's also very difficult to talk about sources because there's no means of providing funds, at least I in Article 6. I couldn't recognize the sources. Here, too, in my opinion, there is no definition of circumstances, i.e. under which, the right to choose another residence, the state should be financially supported. Is this the right to choose the consequence of the inability to return, the victims of war, the hostile relationship between the government, the environment, etc., or is it simply the decision of a man to simply say – I want to live there too. So these are, in my opinion, very thin things, so to speak, which should be kept in mind and be precise when the state supports the choice, the right to choose a place of residence, because otherwise it will look like a kind of conscious act of government to a demographic premposion in BiH. It is also not, in my opinion, the office that the right to this choice is brought into connection with the right to return, there in Article 6(3) to say that, that they reserve the right to return at the same time, the right to return, and that is also said, and that no way will endanger the right to return to the prewar who lived there. So the key is whether we all, as a government, have done that people in accordance with their decision if they want to come back, whether they're back or all of us have done that people have been put into a situation to choose a new place. Return of property or compensation, compensation of assets that cannot be recovered. Through these definitions, I realized that the definition of assets, assets that can't be returned is actually the same, with this other one that can't be returned, or property that can't be returned is practically different just because the owner can't come to that residence and can't have it, if he is, and that he's deprived of that right during the conflict, starting from 30.04.'91. It's a little vague to me, but, well, I'm not going into detail right now. In my opinion, it's also questionable that there's no-- neither in numbers nor in the amount of money, there's no precision about the inability to have, or there's no precision on why a man's availability is disabled. Is it kidnapped, burned, destroyed... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So stop, so the inability to have it is a very broad term and it's very important, to me, to know why it's happening. This date shall be taken 30.04.'91. As a day d. ja, I know why that date is taken, I suppose it's about that law, imposed by the law on abandoned apartments and so on, but we're opening up one question, maybe I'm wrong, let's say in the largest part of BiH since 30.04.'91. Until the beginning of '92. Or until the end of '91. When Straight and other things happened, it could have been trafficked and flats were assigned and people were buying and changing and so on, there might be a number of people at this interval that are not equal to these. So they can't have this right, so that principle of equality before the law is a little bit controversial. Generally, that's what the predecessors talked about, I can't, I couldn't see how much this project would cost. I tried and asked and saw that the Ministry of Finance couldn't give an assessment for the simple reason that there wasn't enough information, so it simply said that it couldn't be obvious about the financial aspect. 64 And one more thing, I've been here a little while and delayed, so there's one kind of inconsistency, inconsistencies, so I don't say discrimination against displaced persons living in BiH, I'm talking to Article 11, where the right to reconstruction is said to only have persons who don't have another housing unit conditional on housing in BiH. And that doesn't say the same for those who live in the countries of the region. So, these are in some way currently found in BiH discriminated against those outside BiH because these outside BiH do not have to prove they have some housing unit where they are now, which would not be good. Also, I don't know for what reasons, the Law, unlike so far, abolishs the status of observers to people from civil society. I believe the MPs have received in some way an appeal or a request, a request from the Union for a return. So they lost the observer status. There were international organisations, above all, OSC and UNHCR very important for their return. And I don't think we should eliminate them from observer status, because you include them in Article 15 that they have the right to collect and prepare projects, if I understand correctly. They simply participate in this process of collecting and preparing projects. And finally, I pray that this euphemism is used when it comes to telling what has been happening in BiH since '92. until '95, so even. In one place, there's a conflict and in the other, and in other places there's enmity. Well, define yourself, suggestor, or it'll be like a conflict or it'll be like enmity. So anyway, one kind of euphemism, not to say, not to say what was in this country, you know that well, I don't need to. Conflict and enmity, that's the word of peace.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13790	Thank you. Dear representative Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13791	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, since the predecessors said a lot about the law, I just want to mention a few things that I think are important. First of all, when you read the bill's proposal as a whole, you can definitely see that there is a good intention of the resolution ministry, so finally after all these years of trying to solve the issue of refugees and displaced persons in BiH, which we all know is a very, very complex and complex issue. But as it often happens in life that the same thing the theory says one thing, and the practice is quite different, I'm afraid something like that can be done, and that's what this law can be led under. Why do I say that? It is precisely because, as the predecessors have said, the theoretical part of this bill shows, so all the variations have been worked out so that the issue of displaced and refugees definitely put an end to this in the sense of introducing three variants of how to definitely solve it – return, stay or adequate compensation for property that should be depreciated. However, since we do not have financial ones in this proposal, since this proposal does not go with the financial structure and the proposal, it is therefore unclear whether this will be just a dead letter on paper, the law does act as a law or there are really real frameworks that what it says here will be realized. Of course, the promoter here has said the sources from which this should be financed 65, but we know our situation in BiH and the question is whether it's real or maybe in a year two we'll be in a position to look at this whole thing and show that it's not. I will give you just one example that within the framework of the Ministry of Human Rights, refugees and displaced persons in 2010 in the future of the Survival and Return Fund, we had 35 million available funds on its item. These funds were all abolished in 2011, and now in 2012, I think there are about 500 thousand left or maybe not so much left. So, some symbolic means have remained from which in 2010 a set of these issues and problems have been financed and solved to a significant extent by local communities and environments where people live. It is said here, therefore, that when it comes to the Budget of BiH, that I am not saying that we can now talk about some of the resources that will be planned in the Budget of BiH and we said that it is fixed until the end of 2014. Not to mention local communities that may have suffered the greatest burden in solving these issues and problems besides the entity's refugee ministries and displaced persons. And what to do now, let's say about this predlog where it's said to take 2% of the entity, municipal, cantonal budgets, to impose another additional obligation on local communities, and we know that local communities have, say, given free pay for building houses, that they've built buildings where housing units are also free of charge, that the seas of things have done the things that cost them. It's all money, it's all money, so it's funded from local communities. And so did the entity ministries that gave free construction packages to deal with it. And of course, there's still a lot of dilemmas in this bill where it's said I don't know, that someone who already has a housing unit won't have the right to compensation, but the question is what category of housing. Is that what people said because they couldn't get their house back, an apartment in some municipality they escaped from, so they took a loan, made their own house or apartment, and to this day they didn't return a housing unit, or is it the same as the one that got a free paycheck, a package of construction material, and the rest, and today, he has a residential unit. He will certainly have the right to appear before the state and demand compensation. So these are very dilemmas about which we do not have a clear explanation in the proposal for this law. But again I say, so the key thing is what the predecessors said, how to implement this law from a financial aspect. I am afraid that we are facing even more difficult periods and months and years, that we will come into a situation that we are theoretically finding, and then, of course, we bear part of the responsibility as Parliament has passed this law and there is no financial basis to implement it. Then it's fairer not to adopt something and promise no one anything if you don't have a real chance to do it, to bring it to an end and to fulfill what you are, which we are, what we're going to bring. But of course I know that there are those who will probably say – so something has to start, something has to start. If we don't start with this, we probably won't even get to the point where we're financializing it. That's why I think we should accept this law today and let it go in the first reading, and then see if it's possible to get it right in the second phase of the amendment. And, in any case, to be a permanent activity, which is a resolute ministry, so that it's constantly working on finding opportunities for this to be realised in a concrete and legal sense in real life, that it would really be a true intention and desire, if we adopt it today that we really want to do so, to solve these problems and these issues. Thank you. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13792	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13793	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, a brief review of me as an advocate of this Law, or a bill here that is before us. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Proposer of the Law, it is the Ministry of Displacement, headed by the minister who attends here, Mr Damir Ljubić, who in some ways has the courage to propose such a law to us. Here's my proposal, after some of our discussions, Minister, that you don't get discouraged, but that, I didn't say that there are some things that need not be fixed in this law, but that you bring this into this House, that means bringing it in and doing it. I... even this Law in BiH, and there are several laws in entities called Lex Specialis, when it comes to the Development Bank, when it comes to the Privatisation Agency, which does not work, when it comes to Luttria. They're doing so under some laws, I don't know who I'm calling Lex Specialis or these some kind of banking agencies,...means this Law, too, so, in my opinion, could have that name. Here it says that this has been developed by the Ministry, meaning the revised BiH strategy for the implementation of the Anex VII Dayton Peace Agreement. Here, today we pleaded here. I think we're all for Dayton, and you see how Dejton prescribed some things here, too. What Anesk VII of the General Framework Agreement will say for peace in BiH, namely the Dayton Peace Agreement, is that all refugees and displaced persons have the right to return freely to their homes, have the right to return property they have been deprived of during their hostilities since '91. the years and the fee for the property that cannot be returned to them. It's all written, it's all written. This is the minister alone and the ministry that the motionary explained, just copied this, that those people who had suffered since '91. By the end of '95. who have suffered injuries, meaning family, property or any other, means that they can compensate for that damage today in the way they want it to be. By returning what I would give, as stated in this Law, which I would give priority. So, the new residence, is whether, what I would put in second place and compensation or compensation for the damage done to those facilities. Meanwhile, people did something, they took out loans, they made houses. We'll ignore it, or they couldn't go back there, but they've run out of damaged property and it can be called war damage. Now who's she gonna charge from, and we can possibly argue about it. So it's known exactly, all of us here or most of us here have some old foreign savings, so the state has committed itself or the entity to bring it back to people and they're returning it. Those who have so far had some less savings, they will return it. Not here, here should be torn from everyone, torn from everyone, not now to discuss the way BiH's budget was cemented at 950 million marks plus debt by the end of 2014, or early 2015. Both entities and states and cantons need to sit down, and already one part of the funds has been raised by this Donor Conference and these funds, God Bog we spend them this year in 2013, so we don't need to be discouraged here, so, if we're honest with each other. We need to set deadlines for how far this ends. That the BiH state and entities should raise their loans and end these, just as these priorities are set out in this Law. First it means a return, then a second residence, then a possible compensation for the property that was damaged in the war. 67 And here I'm just going to say, I'm not sure that this data is accurate from colleague Dušanka Majkić, that in the Federation for the Return of Srbin 2 million KM from the Federation government, but what is the system of whether or not it is from the canton. There are no colleagues here, Franjičević, so you know what, the Srbin has returned to Hercegbosan canton I think one 7-8 thousand, from prewarh perhaps 11 or 12 whether it has returned. Therefore, a large number of buildings have been renovated up there, and I know also in Herzegovina-Neretva County, I know that last year the Federation government gave a million and a half marks for the restoration of the Mostar Assembly Church. So I'm not sure at least it's standing, I'm not sure this is exactly two million marks, is it, for the return of Srbin? I'm talking about the return of all the refugees and exiles. Unfortunately, we here share whether it was for the return of the Hrvat. Is it, if Hrvat and Bošnjak are expelled from RS space, then it's a return for them. If it's out of space, I don't know, I just mentioned whether Herceg-Bosnian County, if they're expelled Srbin, is it, meaning up there and that government cantonal and the Federation government singled out that part of the funds, so here, but I wouldn't go in there, I'm not sure, either, but here's a very easy check. I think this should be a priority and a ministry headed by the Minister and this Parliament and not only this, but also all the parliaments, and then we will consummate all those provisions of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the interdepartmentary and this Annex VII, which is very, very rarely mentioned as opposed to Annex IV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13794	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13795	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable ministers, ministers with their associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Well, I made the most of it since the commission, whose member I am, has given support to this law, so the principles of this law, and we are going to vote on the principles today, by now announcing amendments that we are going to invest in some parts of the legal period. But today we talk about such a complex issue doesn't know where to start and what Mr. Jagodić would do well. It's just that now I'd like to add from when to when and now the main question for what? So, if only, very briefly, I will really not be much longer because my colleagues have already said about it and colleagues who have spoken all of this, all this has lasted too long for reasons not because of this composition of Parliament, but from the former. If the Central Bank of BiH had set up a fund that was in debt at the time, as the third equal vision envisioned by the Dayton Agreement for the compensation of property, that third vision is what I want to talk about, it seems to me then it should have been the amount of 5 million KM, probably by then donors, although the international community, I have to repeat it immediately, has been selective since the beginning. It was only in their interest to return. They were not interested in it, nor were they interested in it, and I spoke to many of them, nor should they hear it. He stayed there and wants to take the money where he was, I mean the translation that you can all understand. So since then, it's all gone. Now, I wouldn't want to bid where it came back, because all of us would deserve the greatest prizes when we even knew how many of us are in BiH anywhere, so right now and in this room, we know that 68 have 42 MPs, so those who are interested in sometimes something from the Council of Ministers, the first row of course never, which I always welcome, is empty. These friends of ours who follow what we say come, the journalists have already gone because they don't care, they're interested in some crowd we're supposed to make here, and thank Bog we're never going to make it, this is a civilized, normal Parliament that is democratically discussing everything. We've got a college that's amazingly leading with experience. It is to sometimes remain alone as chairman, but the secretary is here with him. So this is all part of the agenda. There's no point in me saying this, if I've said this 50 times before, at least me, but here. So, we're going to support this, we're going to support the commission, we're going to support the principles today, we're going to make amendments, but when I say amendments now, don't bring someone down right now, here's the big deal. And that we may be open, and whoever wills to return, has returned, in a sense. I don't know the percentage, I don't want to bid, I don't want to take the sin on my soul, especially Valentine's Day, but just work. Well, then who managed to make something out of some donor got by. Those donors who are here, and they've been laundering money. They've helped a lot, thank them for that, but they've come here too, and no one's gonna give you anything. Let's give you something for free and twice as much. So, they got away too, but it's not in this law, of course the law can't predict, but what it has, let's do everything now. Here's an example. I ask all politicians, especially those from the top, do not invite refugees anywhere to return, because no one will listen to you. Who will return from the Srbin to Sarajevo. For example, if it is necessary for him to remain naked, he sold his apartment in Sarajevo for 20 or 30 thousand marks and his value was 150 thousand at that time marketable, that he should be back today to have 200,000 euros to buy his own apartment. So there's no talking about it. It's over. Now let's do what's not finished, which the minister well predicted with his colleagues, to get rid of the people of these collective centers. So I ask you, as friends, who has visited one of you for the last time? Twenty is the first century, 2013, who took one package to that collective center? I don't want to accuse you here of being a donor now, and here I am. You guys go get some sevapa to see how people live here. Look what's going on out there. Now, that's what we need to deal with. Collective centers, and you've predicted it well, and this is to start at last if we make it happen. And to get back to what colleague Marković and colleague Majkić were saying, everything will stop again and not because of us from the RS or you from the Federation, people where the money is? Are we gonna make this happen? Are we ever going to meet these possibilities and conditions that you predicted? The money is needed for this. And now to say the money again, shall we make this Budget? Is there anything we can accomplish? So it's all going to be a problem. And let's go back to realisation once again, even though it's clear right now, let's make whoever gets angry, these problems will never be solved, ever. But someone will always be one of the politicians, which I hear, until the last returnee has been implemented, the Dayton Agreement has not been implemented, Annex VII. Well, it's not people, so don't let's at least make trouble when we've got too many of them anyway. Thank you very much and let's get to the realization.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13796	Thank you. Since we don't have a quorum, I'm giving a five-minute break to try to get a quorum. 69 [[PAUZA]] My colleagues and colleagues continue to work, we have a quorum. Dear Representative Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13798	Thank you very much. Here, I, dear colleagues and colleagues, will try to be as brief as possible. I welcome the initiative of the Resolute Ministry that, here is definitely this Law to see the light of day and to define this very important area of life. We all know that one of the fundamental human rights is the right to property, the right to return, the right to inherit its own identity, so it's all about one quality and possible... return. I'm afraid here that through all these possible variations that can happen, taking into account one time-out of 20 and so many years and taking into account the expansion of the rights palette that has been created, I'm afraid we don't open one of Pandora's boxes that we can't get out of with a lot of things that aren't indirectly and legally regulated, but I'm particularly speaking from the point of view of financial resources. You've seen it here, and this little bit is mentioned numbers, and I think it's something that's going to be very difficult to define. And then credit lines are mentioned, and you know that as a minister I had the responsibility of you Parliament to ensure, so then when I started doing that I saw that no financial international institution has a credit line for this activity that stands, perhaps in some other parts of the world, yes, but not here, and it will be very difficult to achieve. And with existing credit lines, I'm just going to remind you of this OPEC fund that I signed a pre-contract in Vienna five years ago, so I can see it hasn't been realised yet. Just from the point of view that people wouldn't be mistaken about what's waiting for them and what's all the trouble. But we also need to be aware and responsible for our actions now cannot discourage our return and tell people that we can't, but rather we must do everything possible to get them back and help them. And I would first of all here point out one priority in pushing for a sustainable return, because then it can only give people morale and the other, which we have spoken a little and politically earlier, about their, is whether, the senses of self-determination, in that sense, to ensure them maximum. I think it's especially going to need, and it's going to be sort of in these benches again, taking care of domestic funding. You saw we also brought global fiscal frameworks for, I don't know, '12, '14. So we're going to innovate, and there's no such thing as a means. It's going to be very serious things, you know that our deficit this year was, I don't know, I probably don't know what it is, but budget sure close to 8%, this one that we're going to be very hard to fit these numbers. So we're gonna have to talk about priorities. So something that was now a priority will have to go into another plan, if we're honest about coming back then he has to go first and try to solve it in such a way. And I'd just like to ask the Proposer to take a look at this article 26 on surveillance. The Ministry of Finance can't be charged with overseeing the spending of the Fund. It has its own law of obligation and supervision that must work, and so does the Chief Auditor's Office. So we can't give him what he's already got, or we can give extra, on the contrary, if you want some special supervision in 70 frames of the Fund or your ministry, then name it something, I don't know, some supervisory team or body that will be able to priorly or assist you in implementing or quality spending these funds, and these two institutions will do their job in accordance with positive legal regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13799	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13800	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly, here's unfortunately 17 years later we're still talking about coming back instead of talking about some other things when it comes to the economic survival of the returnees. But here, and let me say that we showed in the period behind us that we didn't have enough understanding when it came back, that, as Parliament's Assembly, we had already concluded on two occasions that the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, was providing funds, and that's the essential thing. The means are the essential thing to end this return process. Here's to remind you, the last time we adopted the Census Act, but here's an example of one, it means at the last and last adoption of the budget, you remember how much we've led the controversy over whether to provide the 7 million that could be withdrawn from the April 2012 conference. We, this law is certainly a good solution, we're going to intervene as a Club SDA, I'm not going to talk about it now, through amendments in some things that we think should be more beautiful and different and more practical. But I also want to say that we had a law that, if we had understood, that we had managed to secure the funds, that we had taken this problem seriously, we could also implement the process of return through existing legal solutions. I hope that this Law and our understanding here, not only of the next budget but also of this fiscal year, will find certain financial resources to fix the matter, when it comes back. Here, I don't want to owe you any more, we'll be in front of the club of a certain amendment in phase two of the debate on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13801	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13802	I thank the Honorable President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Well, I congratulate the ministry on the courage to propose the law, and that's where I'll stop. 22 years ago it was defined the beginning of the situation and the person to whom this Law applies, meaning '91. In the third and fourth months, right, 22 years. And after 22 years, we say there are no conditions to return. One of the often repeated thesis, phrase, as I would call it, in a law or property that cannot be returned. 18 years ago, a Dayton Peace Agreement was signed and one of Annex VII, which defined the rights. According to the laws that cease to apply by passing this new law, I see that we are '99. for the first time passed the Law on Refugees and Displaced Persons and so on, 14 years ago. And the law as a law to me is, frankly, the dilemma of whether we need a new law, frankly, is whether we need a new law. Because not because this law is good or bad, but because I am fatly convinced through all these, because I have been mentioned for years, that there is no problem in any law, was no problem in the current laws, it has not been a problem so far in declaring rights, it has not been a problem in guaranteeing rights, the problem has been as it was today, 22, 18, 14 years later, because there is no minimum political will to really solve this problem. The lack of existence, although when we discussed the revision of the Revised Strategy, we said that by revising that strategy, we would remove all the dilemmas and that, as the previous years did not work out, we would suddenly start all the geometric progression. I have to say, and I forgot when we were discussing her, how old she is, how old she is, how old she is, how old we've been discussing her, I don't see that anything has changed, if it isn't worse, the best is guaranteed. We have a situation in which we have a current law, so this pass didn't pass, in which, how many ministers two years, three, we don't have this commission that even now exists under the law, it exists by law, but it's not in practice, I don't know what we don't have, I don't know how to be honest, that I don't guess who will, who won't, who doesn't want to, for what reason he doesn't want, but it's an indicator, so no matter what the funds that have been provided for these areas so far, for these purposes, are minimal, that there's no political will. So every possible form is used to unsolve this right or this area, not to realize this right. And you have here, when it comes back, one sentence – another form of help in return in order to ensure economic, social, legal, etc. ... There's no way to figure out how, what are the other forms? Property here under this Act, I have to say I don't have the old law on me, it's reduced exclusively to housing, so only to housing, it's not just property, I mean I have to say that we know that it's not just property, there's still different kinds of property. The property that can't be returned to me is now a dilemma, when you bring back a man's house, have you returned his property to him, is that perhaps he thinks that the property can't be returned after the house is torn down? Or it's thought that there are other barriers, legal, political, that someone doesn't even give that ruin to someone, I don't know, I'm not sure what's meant by this notion of property that can't be returned. And since there was speculation, the intention where happiness is much earlier, I think I have to say this in particular, the intention that domestic budgets make all levels of government binding, to single out at least 2% of me is excellent, in my opinion, excellent, I'm just afraid that she's quite late and this is not an objection, it's a compliment to you that at least now you remember, and the objection is to all of those things that no one has ever thought of. But here, we see that we're afraid that someone's going to cheat on someone in those divisions. What I am absolutely convinced of, the only one who will again be deceived are those to whom this Law applies, respecting the fair intentions of the Minister and the Ministry. I'm not going to make amendments because I don't think it's a problem either in this or in the previous law, so the problem is much deeper, we're aware of that. Unfortunately, as long as it exists, I say again 22 years have passed, we have today the first generation of which we speak of extinct, so we're aware that they're not coming back. I mean, they're coming back, I have to say it experiencedly, in me in the area of the community where I live out of the total buried person half is, half of the returnees, and half of those who are domicile means, but I say people die in exile, so they go back to the cemetery and 72 are buried, because I guess it's the cheapest place for us to be buried. So, unfortunately, it's a morbid truth, because they have no conditions, they had no conditions, I have to say, it's hard to understand someone that doesn't want to live in their homeland where his grandfathers were born, he was born, etc., but I understand people who don't have minimum terms or 22 years later that they can survive there. So I'm afraid by passing a law that won't be implemented, because they are, they're quite principled I have to say these laws and this law, I'm not sure we're going to fix the situation. And with all due respect, I'd like to join my colleague, Vrankić, to encourage people, to send a message of encouragement, I'd like that. Unfortunately, whoever you're talking about today, people can only call you a big demagogue because they don't believe any more stories, and they see that there's no realisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13803	Thank you. Dear representative Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13804	Dear Chairman, allow me to welcome all present. On the Joint Commission on Human Rights and Refugees, disintegrated, we discussed the Proposal for a Law on Refugees and we are mostly unanimously committed to the common that... the need to adopt this kind of law is necessary. 10 years ago, the BiH Strategy for the Implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement was adopted and it was the only document we had in fact. The need, and by respecting the number of refugees we have, the need for this document is unquestionable. It is based on the principles of equality of all refugees wherever they are and where they live and, what Mr. Niko says, we need to encourage them and give them the opportunity to return, to know that they are citizens and part of BiH and that they belong to us and give them space to return, to return their property, to return their apartments and to give them back their dignity. We in the SDP agree that this law goes into further procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13805	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13806	The word has the chairman of the House of Representatives, Dr. Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13807	My colleagues and colleagues. So, of course, I support the adoption of one of these laws, and no matter what over 20 years have passed since this problem occurred here in BiH, I think it's still time that we can do a lot more than we do. ...chronologically... the return would already have used the term of completion of the return. The end of the return is all as long as there are people who want to come back, and they will be for a long time. 73 What I particularly want to point out in this Law is extremely important to me, and therefore I also consider an additional reason to support it, it creates an institutional framework for speeding up returns in line with today's time, therefore, through the commission, through the fund. On the other hand, of course here, there's been a talk here about the main defense actually for the return so far, and I'm afraid now and now, it's a lack of political will to support that return. Well, then we're all full of declaratives together, so to speak, taking back, and when there's a certain amount of funding to be allocated at any level, then there's always a higher priority, and not just the Council of Ministers, which is supported by the parliamentary majority of which I am part, has actually shown credibility according to this law, because otherwise we would have set out in the Budget for this year twenty million return marks, because that's some, therefore, this 2% of the total budget. That's why I also support the commitment, and I hope it won't be declarative, that all levels will be set at least 2% out of their budget. On the other hand, what I think is a new quality here, and what I could say could make the return more sustainable or at least more sustainable than it has been so far, are some of the things that are being placed here in the jurisdiction of some of these institutions that realize that return, commission. In particular, he would point out under 2nd, so Article 18 of the joint project selection. Why? We know that individual assistance to one returnee for the rebuilding of the house, and even the return of property, is not enough to make that return sustainable. Therefore, it is necessary to create certain bases of economic interest from credit funds, donors, etc., and so on, so that these people can produce, if around these bases, then small clusters, small holdings, whether agricultural or productive. I too, under this term "choice of joint projects" see this thing, so from the credit funds of the Council of Europe Development Bank, funds, aid to countries such as Croatia, Turkey, or some other funds, create such bases together that will then make refugee returns sustainable. Therefore, as far as I see and the mood in Parliament is today to support this law in its first reading. Of course, there is always something that can be fixed by amendments, and in any case this Law should go and be adopted. Thank you very much. The minister expressed readiness to address it, but before that, there is one representative for the debate, so if the minister agrees to give a word to the MP, then the minister should address. Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13808	Thank you, Chairman. Here, since I come from the largest refugee and the largest return town in BiH, I want to say a few things. I'm listening to fellow MPs here, I've heard a lot of things, with a lot of things I wouldn't agree with, and a lot of what's in place has been said. You said there's no political will to return. I think that someone who's been thinking about coming back, more families or people, maybe there are clues that would have come back to their old residence, meaning their old home address and lived on some of that property, and I think it's been too many years, and that people have already gotten used to where they are and that they don't want to come. For example, in my city there is a group of people, i.e. there is a large mass of people who are in Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, Austria, Slovenia, who will never really return here to BiH, ever again. So neither they nor their children, just come to be 74 buried, so from where they came from, they have a desire to come back here and bury themselves and no longer have absolute desire as to return. They've got money, they've got big funds, they've got infrastructure, people with their money and something to help, something like this, they've restored those houses, and the huge amount of houses are locked down. That if you call it a return, it's not a return. So there's nothing coming back from that either. On the other hand, you have the same thing in my city, meaning people who came from other cities, who were also expelled from their hearths and who settled in one bigger city, not to tell the big city center, whose children go to primary, high school. So they have all these conditions, she helped them make their own houses, and they stayed there, and they don't think to move from there. So they don't mean to go back to municipalities and villages where there's no electricity, no water, no schools, no living conditions. Someone a little better, someone a little worse, they found some kind of existence. So you don't have to talk about coming back euphoric, some big comeback, something's going to happen spectacularly. He won't. In BiH, as far as the return spectacle is concerned, the spectacle is no more. This eventually still enables infrastructure if someone comes back to help him and possibly even if he has one of those older people if he wants to go back to his hearth to end it and that's it. So all return can come down to who thought he'd come back. I support these amendments to the law, and through the amendments, there will certainly be a lot of things here, but let's not talk about coming back as some too important thing for BiH right now. It was too important the moment the war stopped and for the next four, five years, and that's when all that story ended. Now it's just a little story that's, it's nothing spectacular. What needs to be solved are really, a few colleagues said, so these accommodations, collective accommodations, so it really is nowadays that someone lives in collective accommodation, these things should be made possible, these people should eventually be allowed back and have some basic conditions for life, and my return is 97.8% of the story in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13809	Replica, chairman of Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13810	Comrade Bursać, I do not know if you are aware of the substance of what you said just before, and I will quote you – the one who wanted to return that one came back. Look, if it were essential to anyone's point of view, it would be a terrible insult to those people. In particular, here I am talking about the Hrvat from the RS who fed about 240 thousand before the war, now there are about 15 thousand, according to the Catholic Church and the census. What does it mean that 230 grand didn't want to go back? It's an insult to those people. So it would be better if you told them who could come back and who still wants to come back today, and there are those, and we have to let them know that one of us has to let him do it. So, I agree, I'm not too optimistic that they'll all come back, but we can't actually leave this assembly like that, such words without an answer, the one who wanted to come back. Dear Representative Boško Tomić, replica. Here you go. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13811	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, let me just say a few words. My replica refers to, perhaps in some way, the lack of understanding of fellow Bursać. In principle, in a world where disasters like this occur, around 7% of people return to their previous destinations. And I think that in BiH, we have just made it possible for the percentage to be higher, thanks to the policy. And I'm on the point that everything and one man who wants to come back should be made possible. However, only a declaration – you know we allow you by building a house for you, there is nothing of it. If there's no sustainable return, then we're not doing the right job. I consider sustainable return people who are in rural areas to be able to deal with their own production, agriculture, etc., and then it's something that allows these people to survive. In cities, you should somehow enable them to get a job. And we have five hundred and 40,000 unemployed who are already here and now that we're back to those centers, then I'm not sure we're going to give them a good message – come back, you have a safe job here. People don't choose to find a job now, and they go 50 miles and don't look at what entity it's in at all, I think it's political good. It is good that a man can go from anywhere from the RS to the Federation to work or vice versa, and I agree that we should act politically and that these people feel free and secure there, but we have to invest a lot more money through this. I welcome the law, I think you've done it very well, but we have to work a lot more to create certain environments for a sustainable return. And until the last one, while even one man wants to come back, I think that possibility should be made possible. Who wasn't a refugee, he can't do it, and he doesn't know how to appreciate it. So I fully understand it and I support it and I think that we should endure it, but you have to take a little bit more from the ministry to make sure that with those repairs and so forth. It goes with the possibility and other ways of a sustainable return, but it's not just your job, it's all of us together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13812	Thank you. Honorable representative Saša Bursać, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13813	Mr. Chairman. I'm absolutely aware of what I said, and it's definitely like that. Hrvat who wanted to return to RS have returned, all recovered their property, all recovered their property, which is not the case with Srbin from Croatia. And these Hrvat, this difference between 230 thousand and 15 thousand, you know very well where they are, are not in collective centres, are located in houses, in homes today, they have their houses, homes, mostly the state of Croatia takes care of them, and they have there, so all they need and stimulates them to stay in Croatia, to remain on the Serbian estates and homes that were purchased most often by the Republic of Croatia, etc., and so on, means that we are not getting into these problems. The Hrvat, according to my information, have returned but do not want to return, are not in collective centres, are not dragging anywhere in the white world, they are doing well, and there is better safe where they are than in BiH. And my opinion, I have the right to my opinion, 76 is precisely that they do not want to return to BiH. And I think, and I'm still behind it, anyone who went where he was better certainly won't return to BiH, and few have gone where he was worse than in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13814	Replica, chairman of Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13815	Well, thank Bog these people aren't on the street, but surely their existence isn't solved by those 70 million that the RS government has singled out to solve. But what you have no right to, you cannot, you have no right to judge who feels, whether anyone wants to return to their Dervent, and Banja Luka, and Prijedor, and Shamac, etc., and so on, believe it maybe I as a Hrvat can feel better about them, and neither can I because I wasn't in that situation. So much for that. Minister of Human Rights and Refugees Mr. Damir Ljubić wants to address the House and possibly answer some questions and clarify some parts of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13816	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First, I want to thank you for, in my opinion, quality and welcome suggestions and remarks. What I am particularly pleased with, here is except for a little bit of the end, but it is also good because it raises some additional questions, that there is a good ambience and will, as Mr. Lozančić said, and one of the other MPs, that we should make this issue even more priority, more current, because it is, in spite of political and other issues, really about human fates and that after a long time we try to help people to resolve their status permanently. What we have tried with the new Law is that those provisions, which are contained in the revised strategy that was adopted two years ago in this House, to transform them into this Law and, of course, respecting both the competences and division in BiH regarding both the Council of Ministers and the entities and the municipalities, and I think that we are here somewhere, here we have pretty much struck less, respecting your suggestions, and so we have also come up with this Law and so are its provisions. What I might point out is that when we talk about coming back, we don't necessarily talk about coming back and that people have to stay there. What we want with this Law is to order and encourage people and provide them with equality without discrimination, that they freely decide by their own free will which right they will use. And of course, it seems to me that today is a better environment, that we all use this environment together and that together with still, I would say that there are also international institutions of willingness to allocate additional funding to speed up this issue and start to solve it a little more quickly. Why am I saying that? Here we are through the Regional Housing Programme and last year's Donor Conference, which was held in Sarajevo, and BiH should have belonged somewhere around 80m euros. However, this mechanism is too slow. In the first month of this year, the Council of Europe Development Bank approved 40m euros for the closure of collective centres. The funds of OPEC and the Saudi Fund should be realised somewhere worth 30 million KM. So these are significant means where we wait for their operationality, it's about 200 million marks in different 77 stages of operation and realization. Of course, here I am as resolute ministers, and we have not all shown enough sensitivity as a BiH state, like BiH or as, to allocate funds that would mean perception if nothing else were to be us and that this is our priority when it comes to finding permanent solutions for exiled and refugees, because this is what we are expected to do. It means that at least in our own budget, apart from symbolism, we have provided significant resources, and in some ways, what they say, we have translated them into deeds. So I would pray, here we all are together, that there is a good environment, there are more than initial means when we speak about 200 million KMs waiting at different levels of realization, we try to help each and every one of us to begin in realisation, as one of the MPs said, to make it faster, stronger. And I don't think there are any serious obstacles in BiH when it comes to this problem, more like before, and to help people come, in a legal sense, they own their own property, but to help them rebuild their homes. What they're going to do, what their choice is going to be, and the place to live on about it. We guarantee this Law means all three rights, the right to return, whether people will stay or not, whether they will stay there for a year, two, three, five, the right to choose a second place of residence and the right to compensate for the damage to the level of home right. And now when we talk about sustainable return and other rights or opportunities for people to stay and live there, about employment, health care, education, this billion-dollar figure, and 300 would reach maybe 10 billion if they were to observe it in the overall segment. And she's not only in charge of this level of government or this ministry. So my basic message would be a good ambience, it's a good atmosphere, that we all get together, but we really try, and I think it's a good time, because I have promises and from here on some lenders and maybe future donations, if we show our own effectiveness in solving this issue and we speed up all that mechanism and we're a little faster and more efficient, that we can still count on some favourable means, less donor but favourable credit assets. And I think that we will all do a great thing together if we give a little more wind to the back and the institutions and encourage people that their question will be resolved in accordance with the provisions of Annex VII, these three rights, and of course to the provisions of this Law where we sign the rights of the revised strategy and the Dayton Peace Agreement, and in some way we tried to create an ambience that it all goes a little faster. Thank you very much and thank you for your discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13817	I thank the minister. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) This Bill of Law was submitted in procedure 15.01.2013. The Constitutional Commission is competent. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional legal basis and principles in 1302.2013. 78 I am opening a debate and shortening the debate to 5 minutes for this point and all that follow for the sake of time. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13819	I thank the chairman. Here, I'll try as soon as possible. First, the BiH Party MPs will, of course, support, in the context of structural dialogue and reforms and judicial institutions, when it comes to the order and this law, i.e. these changes ahead of us. They are not controversial to us, but there is something that we are concerned about and that I want to draw attention to all of us, of course especially to the College, or to the relevant services responsible for the procedure. So it seems to me that we can rise, an ugly word but adequate, into a procedural problem. So it's about the next one. The BiH Criminal Procedure Act has been imposed in time by a high representative in BiH. In an adequate procedure, we adopted a law declared by the High Representative, and later in 2009, the High Representative imposed amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. In a parliamentary procedure in November 2011, the Council of Ministers submitted a request for an emergency procedure in terms of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, which the Parliamentary Assembly refused. So, she refused an emergency procedure, which means that the law, which means the law that was declared by the High Representative, is in the ordinary procedure. It may be helpful to hear the reasoning from the ministry, possibly before the plea, so as not to engage in procedural difficulties. So before us is the proposal proposed by the Council of Ministers of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure but in a different text than that to be taken over by the Parliamentary Assembly. I just want to draw attention to the amendment to the Constitution concerning the removal of barriers to the possible reduction of salaries to elected officials, etc., because, as we could see in the media, the Council of Ministers as a newspaper proposed the same content of the amendment to the law. Otherwise, I want to mention that this law is not controversial for us, the more we see that, as it says here in the law, it is the result of the joint work of representatives of the executive and judicial authority of all levels in BiH, which means an adequate approach in this regard. And yet, I just want to remind you, although the proposal for this text is acceptable before us, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, in the context of the judicial reform, has proposed an amendment to Article 27a of the Criminal Procedure Act, and here even with this questionable procedure, which I mentioned in the context of the text that is before us and which deserves attention, I have failed to see that a valid request by the BiH Prosecutor's Office for the addition of Article 27a has been accepted). Well, if the Ministry's representative can answer these questions that concern, therefore, the procedure and other demands of his own class of prosecution, it would seem useful to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13820	Here you go. I would only ask you to present yourself precisely for a stenogram. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13821	Thank you, Chairman. I am Milana Popadić, BiH Justice Minister's assistant in the Justice Department. It is indisputable that the High Representative has imposed amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. In accordance with the procedures laid down, the Ministry of Justice delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly for the adoption of that decision by the High Representative. For the first time, here's the exact information but I don't have it, I don't know it by heart now, the first time it hasn't gotten parliamentary support. Afterwards, initiatives to amend the Law on Criminal Procedure followed and the Ministry of Justice re-launched the procedure for the decision of the High Representative to be confirmed in the Parliamentary Assembly. However, since the new initiatives did not take place, the need for amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act has been raised. And these are precisely these amendments that have been submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly. As for the initiatives delivered by the prosecution, I will remind you that in 2003 new criminal legislation came into force in BiH. Then a team was formed to monitor the application and assessment of criminal legislation, here to see if that's exactly what it's called, yes. And this team, they're recognizable provisions and it's a recognizable job that the team has done since 2003. These are several amendments, both the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code. All initiatives, no matter who they came from, are being considered by the team. The initiative delivered by the BiH Prosecutor's Office must have been considered by the team, and since the team has representatives, here I will not name but I happen to know which representative in front of the BiH Prosecutor's Office is on the team, surely those representatives know what the reasons are, so the team did not accept the initiative delivered by the Prosecutor's Office. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would like to point out that the need has indeed occurred, regardless of the decision of the High Representative, which has not been confirmed in the parliamentary procedure, that such changes are going, because we will remember that the obligations under the International Treaty of the Holy See have been in place since 2006. We also had one decision by the Constitutional Court of BiH, which is the amendment of Article 138 as regards the obligation of detention. And we have obligations stemming from the Law on International Legal Assistance or here's another initiative, all of which is included in these amendments and additions to the law. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13822	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13823	So, Mr. Chairman, everything's already been told. There is a working body, a team of experts, people who understand this problem and these professional issues, highly professional issues, therefore follow the practice and propose changes and additions. And here we only have to answer the question, which was raised by prominent counterpart Azra Hadžiahmetović, do we know that we do not change the laws if it has been declared by the High Representative before we adopt those laws, the question here is now whether it is possible to amend the law adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, if the High Representative intervened by some amendment and supplement, when re-adjusted in the ordinary procedure and 80 complements the law, especially if he is acting on some parts of the High Representative's decision. And you need to answer that question. So this is the point. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please be nice, so we'll give it if we have to, and the Constitutional Commission, so the answer to that question, we'll analyse this thing and I think we need to pay attention to it, and let the law go in the first reading to go. We'll see, perhaps the Constitutional Commission has opted for a public debate, I can't say anything now, but we'll see where it goes and how it goes together. I think these are the solutions that people who apply this law suggest and this means improvement in practice. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13825	Thank you. Replica, MP Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13826	Thank you. I applied as a replica only as a small addition, a proposal in the context of the discussion. And that is to propose to this House to postpone its statement on this law until the procedure is established, or the status of this previous and obligations arising from amendments and additions to the laws declared by the High Representative, because this is a different text. So, do we, and we know we can't do it before we take over the declared, let's say, text, right? So, I suggest we postpone the plea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13827	We expect you to deliver that conclusion in the proper form. Dušanka Majkić signed up for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13828	Just for a little while. We will not support the proposal of this law for the simple reason that the RS has in no way participated in this. The Department of Justice has informed us that at least we should respect, if there's nothing laws we've passed ourselves, so let's say for Article 75. Unique rules for making legal rules, but there is also a obligation to consult with all BiH institutions concerned. In addition, a non-respected member of the 16th Rules for consultation on the making of legal rules where it is also prescribed to consult with all those to whom the law applies. So we're not consulted, we don't know, we're waiting for a structural dialogue to be completed and 81 most of these regulations in this area to be clear and adopted... And now I'm changing this law, and I don't think it makes any sense, and we're not going to support this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13829	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the ninth item of the agenda. We're going to the 10th item of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics (first reading) I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda, Ad. 11. The appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the ranking of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly home for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of directors and deputy directors of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13835	...so far spent. I will not explain my initiative but I will propose to support the Commission's opinion on foreign policy and customs which provides that this initiative should continue to discuss with people from the Directorate for Direct Taxation and find an adequate solution for the future. So I support the Commission's opinion on foreign policy and customs.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13836	.../Shortly Interrupted Recording/... We move to the 15th point, I apologize indeed, MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13837	Two sentences, of course, I support this initiative, but I also need to say what we all talked about earlier on about slowness and procedures and so forth. You see this initiative refers to the light goods and so on. It's been procedure since 19th of July. And something created about these initiatives has to be done, to make them passable, to make them a future, to make them a lot faster to decide because after a year, two, or half a year, they become immaterial. This initiative has asked me to really, that when this Rules of Procedure is done, this is what Scheffik was talking about, to see if it can be decided immediately, whether or not we're going to do something, because this stops making sense. Thank you. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13838	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the 14th agenda. We're going to the 15th point of the agenda, Ad. 15. A review of Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's initiative from the 40th session of the House of Representatives, held on 03.01.2013, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives ("Operary Messenger of BiH", No. 33/06, 41/06, 81/06, 91/06, 91/07, 87/09 and 28/12), I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to prepare appropriate legal solutions for the establishment of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Environment Agency in 2013." I'm opening a debate. A letter from Dušanka Majkić applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13840	I just want to remind you that the Council of Ministers launched an initiative in 2002 to pass a state law on environmental protection, and tasked the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to make a bill. That bill didn't get the entity majority, so I don't think you're working, so it wouldn't happen if you weren't the proposing again, so to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13841	I'd answer but there's no one to give me a word so I have to close the agenda. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda, Ad. 16. A review of the initiative of MPs Beriz Belkić and Šefik Džaferović, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives ("Owner of BiH", No. 33/06, 41/06, 81/06, 91/06, 87/09 and 28/12), we are delivering an initiative to include in the agenda one of the next meetings of the House of Representatives of the agenda item – Analysis of the current course of implementation of the Animal Protection and Wellbeing Act" I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. There is. Here it is. Please, Ambassador Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13843	Two sentences. So, my colleague Džaferović and I first thank the Constitutional Commission and its president for supporting the unanimous. The very formulation of the point, so I ask 84 to follow me, says that our intention is practically to examine in a quality and comprehensive and realistic way the circumstances and consequences and the application itself, the application itself, the first application of the law and the consequences and circumstances under which it works and what it produces. So, without prejudicing any kind of change or putting out of force, or anything, until we get a quality analysis and we know what this law has produced. First, is it fully applied, secondly, what does it produce as a consequence? The motive and reasons that we have set out with him, on dozens of songs to Parliament, you have probably received, too, the most important one from the community of cities, or municipalities and cities of the Federation of BiH, which, the community has been dealing with this issue for half a year, is dissatisfied with the solutions, dissatisfied with the implementation of the law. And the key problem is there's no money for what we've laid down by law, to the harm of animals and to Bogami a little bit to the harm of people. So, we expect a serious debate and we ask that the ministry be resolutely, so we expect from the resolution ministry and the Veterinary Office that they will really prepare a serious analysis that will be the basis for us to draw the relevant conclusions. Isn't that right, Šefik?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13844	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13845	Thank you. That's right. That's how you propose measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13846	Thank you. The word has an MP, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13847	The SDP MPs' club will support this initiative anyway. We ourselves had a number of contacts in the previous period, both with animal protection associations and with human protection associations. That doesn't sound funny, but let's just let the associations deal with it when it comes to this stray dog problem. The only thing, therefore, is not at all disputed that we will support, the only thing we had to worry about when we discussed this at the club session, is exactly what counterpart Belkić was talking about about the initiative of counterpart Mirsad Mešić, so the time. We will conclude that an analysis should be made of the current course of implementation of the Animal Welfare Act, but I am not sure that if it takes place at the pace that we have had the opportunity to see that these things are happening, that we will soon be able to consider perhaps amendments and amendments to the law if it is one of the recommendations, or conclusions given what you have said and what I consider to be right, not prejudicing solutions no matter what any of us individually thought or what relationship you have with this issue. So what's public today is the problem of stray dogs, but I want to take the opportunity to say that it's not the only problem in implementing this law. And I'd like you to, as your proposings, limit this conclusion and, in some ways, have that time dynamic so that 85 would really be something that's operational and whose results you could hope for in a relatively fast time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13848	Thank you. The word has an MP, Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13849	Mr. Chairman. Here, I certainly support this initiative. So we are all witnesses that lately we have had a lot of initiatives and a lot of contacts with all of us individually to engage in solving this issue. And I would suggest, in line with this, that this analysis among other things answers a few questions, which are – is the law that we currently have the EU request, is utanasia practiced in EU countries and by what principles? So even if we get information on the number of reported attacks on citizens, and what are the number of dogs on the streets and about how much resources should we accordingly plan for this area, or for the implementation of this law?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13850	Thank you. The word has an MP, Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13851	We will support this initiative and I respect it, it is a good example of how the opposition MPs propose a constructive parliamentary initiative. I believe that there is a need, this is a significant warning, not only about this Animal Wellbeing Act, but that the Council of Ministers and this Parliamentary Assembly...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13852	Just a second. I'm gonna ask my colleagues to really listen, we're at the end of the session, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13853	that the Council of Ministers and this Parliamentary Assembly will have to put on the agenda soon to analyse the implementation of a series of adopted laws and the purpose of their adoption in this Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13854	Thank you. The word has an MP, Saša Bursać. Here you go. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13855	Thank you very much. I support my colleague Lazar when he says we should look back on the laws that are in force. It's quite fine, but I think we're talking about an average communal problem that's being solved at the level of the local community, and I don't think we should attach any great importance to that. This is what we discussed once when I was a councilman, so this is what we talked about. In the state parliament to talk about stray dogs, it's meaningless to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13856	The word has an MP Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović and we are closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13857	No matter how much my colleague Bursać thought this was a communal issue, believe me, I've never gotten as many e-mails on this parliamentary as you have, as much as I've got on this bill. So, this is something that is very interesting to people, and the law on this was passed by this House, that is, the BiH Parliament, and of course it should then and see how this law is implemented, and why so many people are now e-mailing us, which is why so many people are appealing to us to solve this problem? In order to help, here, of course, and to support this initiative, I will ask you... that in one of my requests I have asked the Research Centre in Parliament to do a research on this problem and it has over 100 pages and will probably help those who are making an analysis to make it more comprehensive. As for the data itself, how people write and send e-mails, we have data and even the trend of growth and the number of dogs, and also their activities, and to say a lot of attacks on citizens. Well, I think that would be a good thing, as the predecessors have already pointed out, to do it as soon as possible, because it'll be pointless later when such unpleasant cases happen, and we're not doing anything about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13858	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We move to, or before we move to, the 17th point, I suggest that the House declares that the debate is united on points 17 to 21 of the agenda, as it is a matter of giving consent to ratifying the agreement. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority, that we have accepted this conclusion. 87 Ad. 17. - 21. Granting consent You have received the opinion of the Commission in charge of external affairs. I'm opening a debate. Are there any reports? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. It's pretty much now. Here's 5:08 a.m. At 5:25 a.m. vote, that's about 15 minutes. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13860	My colleagues and fellow MPs prepare to join the vote. We are voting on point 1. – The adoption of the 41st session of the House of Representatives. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 37 votes in favour and one abstention, with enough entity majority, we have adopted the record. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Request of Representative Saša Magazinović to discuss the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on the Roads to BiH by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. We are now voting on a request for an emergency procedure. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 38 votes in favour, no votes against, no abstentions, with enough entity majority, we have passed a request for an emergency procedure. Now I'm opening a debate on the law. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the bill. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 38 votes in favour, without votes against, without abstention, we have adopted this bill with enough entity majority. I now propose that we vote on the conclusion proposed by the distinguished representative Dušanka Majkić. Should I read it? 88 Prepare to vote on the conclusion. Vote now. I find that, with 37 votes in favour, without votes against, without abstentions, with enough entity majority, we have adopted the conclusion of the distinguished representative Dušanka Majkić. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Report from the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Mine Action in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (Law in Second Reading). We're voting in the second round on the draft law in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 24 votes in favour, 13 against and 1 abstention, but with 13 votes against the RS, this law has not been passed. Moving to point 5. – Proposal for a law on property management temporarily and permanently withdrawn in criminal proceedings before the Court of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 23 votes to 14 against, without enough entity majority from the RS entity, we have not, therefore, passed the law. Consensus?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13861	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13862	It's an ex-consensual match. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović (first reading). We're voting on the bill. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With 19 votes for, 19 against, there is therefore no general majority, so this bill has not been adopted. We are now voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Senad Šepić's representative. Should I read it? Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 25 votes in favour, 13 votes against, but without an entity majority from the RS, we have not adopted this conclusion. 89 _________(?) Round two. We vote, therefore, on this conclusion in the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 24 votes in favour, 14 votes against, but with 14 votes from the RS, this conclusion has been rejected, i.e. it has not been adopted. Moving to point 7. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of New Plants in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that, with 36 votes for, without votes against, 1 abstention, with the agreed entity majority, we adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Moving to point 8. – Proposal for a law on refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, displaced persons and returnees – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 29 votes in favour, 8 against, without abstentions, with enough entity majority, we adopted the proposal for a law on refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, displaced persons and returnees in the first reading. Moving to point 9. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13864	There's a conclusion... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13865	We're voting on the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13866	No, no, the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13867	The conclusion postpones the statement. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13868	Okay, okay, I've been warned by the secretary that we're voting first on the conclusion, so get ready to vote on the conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 24 votes in favour, 14 votes against, but with an insufficient majority of RS entities, this conclusion has not been adopted. [[/Collegiate consent.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13869	Later, round two.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13870	It's an ex post adjustment.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-14-0.u13871	I find, therefore, that because of the lack of consent in the College at this point, a subsequent statement. We're going to point 10. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Azail and Ethics (first reading). Here we also have the conclusion from the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. First the law, then. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that, with 37 votes in favour, without votes against, with a sufficient entity majority, we adopted this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code. We are now voting on the conclusion of the Constitutional Commission. Prepare to vote, whether or not to read the Constitutional Commission's conclusion. Okay, so, before the conclusion of the Opinion of the Constitutional Committee is made, it is necessary to obtain the opinion of the Council of Ministers, or the Working Group to monitor the application of criminal legislation, before considering the law amending and supplementing the Penal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Can we vote? We vote, therefore, on the conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 38 votes in favour, without votes against, without abstention, with enough entity majority, we have adopted this conclusion of the Constitutional Commission. 91 Point 11. – The appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the ranking of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of directors and deputy directors of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In accordance with the recommendations and the proposal of the College of the House, we propose to postpone the statement on the appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency. We are voting on the College's proposal to postpone the statement on this point. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 30 votes to, 7 against, 1 abstention, with enough entity majority, we adopt this proposal, namely to postpone the statement on this item of the agenda for the next session. We're moving on to point 12. – The appointment of a member from the House of Representatives in the Interresor Working Group for the construction of the Law on Political Parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Ministry of Justice. We are voting on the appointment of MP Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic to the Interresor Working Group. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 34 votes for, without votes against, four abstentions, with enough entity majority, we have appointed MP Nermina Zaimović to the Interresor Working Group. Moving to point 13. – Consideration of the extension of the term of office of the BHRT Management Board member, material of the Secretariat of the BHRT Management Board. We vote on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Transport and Connections, which reads: A member of the Board of Directors of BHRT shall remain in line with the mandate of 29.01.2013 until the appointment of a new member and no later than 90 days. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 34 votes in favour, without votes against, three abstentions, with enough entity majority, we have adopted a proposal for the conclusion of the Committee on Transport and Communications. Moving to point 14. – Considering the initiative of MP Mirsad Mešić from the 32nd session of the House of Representatives, held on 19 July 2012, which reads: "I propose the BiH Parliamentary House College to place a point on the agenda of one of the meetings in September 2012 – Information on the fate of the easily-deprived goods seized in the administrative procedure, i.e. in connection with the infringements committed by the BiH Immaculate Taxation Authority". Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 37 votes in favour, without votes against and 1 abstention, we have supported this initiative, and the conclusion is, there is actually no need to vote on it. 92 Let's go to point 15. – Review of the initiative of Representative Denis Bećirović from the 40th session of the House of Representatives, held on 03.01.2013, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH'), No. 33/06, 41/06, 81/06, 91/06, 91/07, 87/09 and 28/12), I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to prepare appropriate legal solutions in 2013 for the establishment of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Environment Agency." Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 15 votes to 12 against and 6 abstentions, but without an entity majority from the RS, this initiative is not supported in the first round. Compensation fee. Moving to point 16. – Review of the initiative of MPs Beriz Belkić and Šefik Džaferović, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH'), No. 33/06, 41/06, 81/06, 91/06, 91/07, 87/09 and 28/12), we are delivering an initiative to include in the agenda one of the next meetings of the House of Representatives of the agenda item – Analysis of the current course of implementation of the Animal Protection and Wellbeing Act’. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 38 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstention, with sufficient entity majority, we adopted the proposed initiative. This, therefore, was adopted and the conclusion from the Opinion of the Constitutional Committee. We are now stating that, points 17 to 21, we declare ourselves in the package, it's about ratifications. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 35 votes for, without votes against, one abstention, with enough entity majority we have decided to vote on these points from 17th to 21st in the package. Point 17. - 21. Give consent to ratifying the agreement Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 38 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstention, with sufficient entity majority, we have given consent to the ratification of these agreements from points 17 to 21. I'm closing the 42nd session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next session is scheduled for 28 February 2013. I thank you for your cooperation, and I wish you a happy return. Session completed at 5:55 p.m.
