ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17358	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 55th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, allow me to congratulate, at the beginning of this session, on the greatest success in the history of Bosnian-Herzegovina football, at the World Cup in Brazil. [[APLAuz]] Our regular guests were invited to the meeting today: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the media. Representatives of the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office for Point 10(?) were also invited to attend the session. Annual report of the Public Administration Reform Fund for 2012. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from the session was justified, that is, by all present today, and some MPs have announced a delay, but they are also there so that we can conclude that we are working fully. According to information from the service at this point in the O.R., 34 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. When it comes to changes and additions to the agenda, I would like to mention the following. The following are added to the agenda: point 3. Consideration of the SNSD Club MPs' initiative for the need for the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers (change of Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, Deputy Minister of Defence of BiH and Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH). Point 4. Consider the motion for a decision to resolve the secretary of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives – Proposers: MPs from the SNSD Club. Point 14. Information on the violation of the BiH Constitution in Republika Srpska regarding the rights of the national group of subjects in the schools of Konjević polje, etc. - Proposers: MPs from the SDA Club. 2 Point 16. Consider the proposal for a conclusion on the extension of the mandate of the House of Representatives' Commission to determine the legality of the conduct of competent state authorities in the event of the detention and detention of Šemsudin Mehmedović, MP at the House of Representatives. Point 26. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No. 2nd to the Finance Treaty concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank on 26/03/2007 in Sarajevo, with subsequent changes – Road Recovery Project in the Federation of BiH (FI 23.924). Point 13 has been removed from the previous agenda. Consideration of MP Ante Domazet's initiative from the 53rd House session, held on 19/09/2013, which reads: "In order to remove further weaken the trust of the community in the government's intention to improve the business environment, I launch an initiative for the BiH Council of Ministers, in the framework of its constitutional and legal competences, to launch co-ordinated activities at the level of all governments in BiH until further suspension and not to launch any activity to raise or introduce new taxes, contributions or other burdens for the business sector, or companies in BiH. The deadline for the implementation of this activity should be the end of 2013” number: 01-50-111015/13, as of 19.09.2013, was removed from the agenda at the request of the Commission for Finance and Budget. Point 11. Proposal for a law on working days at religious holidays in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: The BiH Council of Ministers is complemented by the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which is negative. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. I find that there are no applications for a debate on the agenda, and I find that the 55th session of the House of Representatives has the following Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 54th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Legislative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. Consideration of the SNSD Members' Initiative for Reconstruction of the Council of Ministers of BiH (amendment of Ministers of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, Deputy Minister of Defence of BiH and Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH), issue: 01-50-1-1003/13, of 18.09.2013; 4. Consideration of the motion for a decision to resolve the secretary of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives – Proposers: MPs from the SNSD Club; 5. A request from the SDS Club for consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-46/13, of 09.10.2013; 6. Proposal for a law on liability for nuclear damage – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-14/13, of 27.02.2013. (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on indirect taxation - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-41/13, of 10.09.2013. (second reading); 3 8. The Commission's report on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a law on witness protection programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina - Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-1-20/13, of 22.04.2013. (law in second reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection and Well-being Act – Proposer: MP Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović, Law No: 01-02-1-26/13, of 05.06.2013. (first reading), a delayed statement at the 51st session of the House, held on 25.07.2013; 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-14/13, of 20.09.2013. (first reading); 11. Proposal for a law on working days at religious holidays in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-45/13, of 30/09/2013 with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 12. The Commission's 2012 report on the effort to reach agreement on the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, No: 01,02-50-19-907/13, of 13.08.2013; 13. Annual Financial Report of the Public Administration Reform Fund for 2012, material of the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office, issue: 01,02-07-642/13, of 04.06.2013; 14. Information on the violation of the BiH Constitution in Republika Srpska regarding the rights of the national group of subjects in the schools of Konjević polje and others – Proposers: MPs from the SDA Club, issue: 01-50-19-1097/13 of 23.10.2013; 15. Consideration of Parliamentarian Mate Franjičević's initiative with the 52nd House session, held on 29.08.2013, which reads: "Taken into account that BiH is a member of the Council of Europe, that it sees its future in the European Union and that it is a democratic country, which, of course, implies the acceptance of the relevant European and civilization standards, as well as the general standards of democracy, I consider it useful and necessary for the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to carry out the debate and asks the Council of Ministers of BiH to define and propose a resolution on the condemnation of the crimes of totalitarian communist regimes, as well as the declaration of August 23rd European Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes," number:01-50-1941/13, of 29.08.2013; 16. Consideration of the proposal for a conclusion on the extension of the mandate of the House of Representatives to determine the legality of the conduct of competent state authorities in the event of the detention and detention of Šemsudin Mehmedović, MP at the House of Representatives; 17. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on granting approval for ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on border crossings, No: 01,02-05-2-1009/13, of 19.09.2013; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury (loan) and ERSTE Bank Oesterreichischen Sparkassen AG (loaner) – Project for the procurement of medical equipment for health institutions in the Unsko-San canton, issue: 01,02-05-2-1007/13, since 19.09.2013. (scheduled debate at the 54th session of the House, held 07.10.2013); 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission concerning the IPA programme of Adriatic cross-border co-operation under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, No: 01,02-05-1054/13, of 07.10.2013; 4 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in the field of education, No: 01,02-05-1055/13, of 07.10.2013; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on Border Traffic, No: 01,02-05-1056/13, of 07.10.2013; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the surrender and acceptance of a person whose entry or stay is illegal, No: 01,02-05-1059/13, of 07.10.2013; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Ministry of Security of BiH and the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia on the implementation of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal, No 01,02-05-1060/13 of 07.10.2013; 24. Giving consent to ratification Supplement No. 1 Financial Agreement on the 2009 State Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina - Part I. Within IPA - Assistance in Transition and Construction of Institutions, issue: 01,02-05-2-1040/13, of 01.10.2013; 25. Giving consent to ratification of the Joint Declaration of interpretation and application of Article 11. Agreement on free transit through the territory of the Republic of Croatia to and from the port of Ploca and through Bosnia and Herzegovina to Neum, No: 01,02-05-2-1041/13, of 01.10.2013; 26. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No. 2. at the Finance Treaty concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank on 26/03/2007 in Sarajevo, with subsequent changes – Road Recovery Project in the Federation of BiH (FI 23.924), issue: 01.02-05-2-1068/13 of 09.10.2013. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. First act, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 54th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17362	Of course, I'll agree because I don't have a choice, but slowly this becomes a practice. So it slowly becomes a practice to ask parliamentary questions, answers, etc. always in some way lately are the place where time is reduced, where space is sought for, etc. Then we'd better just break up with that practice because it's a question of why and why. And I'm absolutely against it, if we have to work for two days, no problem. I don't think that's right. We are introducing a practice that is not good, I am talking about the transparency of Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17363	So, just to remind you, we usually have this item on the agenda, but yesterday at the Expansive College, we concluded, given that yesterday's administration had a thematic session of poslanik asking – the Council of Ministers answers. Here, let's also respect that fact today, but we understand, therefore, this appeal of fellow Belkić so that we will try in the next period, of course, that this point in full capacity is also on the agenda. This closes the second item of the agenda. Before we move to points three and four, I must now inform the House of Representatives here that yesterday, at a session of the Extended College, we have concluded that today we are putting the motion to the House on Points 3 and 4. Declare immediately after the debate on them is over. So that's the proposal of an extended college. I would now ask, so the House of Representatives to plead on this proposal's conclusion...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17364	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17365	The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Of course, all of you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, will be able to get your word today. Here's a colleague of Džeferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17366	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I'm just asking you to let us know the reasons that you've been handling when you've made a decision to suggest that we declare these points immediately after the debate, so that we should step aside from the usual practice that we have, in fact, the practice prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, not just the usual practice, so that all the points of the agenda are declared after the debate on all the points of the agenda is exhausted. Tell us what the reasons are so we can make a decision. 6 I can't make a decision just on the basis of your information that you decided on an extended college to suggest it. Tell me what you've been doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17367	Thank you. Before I give the replica to MP Berizu Belkić, let me just remind you, that yesterday we had a session of the enlarged College, that it was a proposal from the SNSD Club and that we were in an explanation and through the debate we realized that this was not the first time we did it in such a way, that it was done in a whole series of other cases when it came to selecting the Council of Ministers, etc., and at a time when it was not this parliamentary majority, and in this mandate. Here you go, pal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17368	Well, I just kind of wanted to say what you said. My colleague Džaferović and I, I fully agree with you, but we are in practice, as soon as you break the principle, etc., we are now in a situation that has become a practice as will become practice and this with parliamentary issues etc. So, I agree with you completely, but as soon as you do, then you make a precedent that later opens up the possibility and simply this House slowly loses, I say, and your principles on which to work. And otherwise, I agree with you, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17369	Replica, MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17370	So it's no problem for us to do so at all. I'm just looking for an explanation, and the argument that it was once done in a similar way is not actually an explanation. When we decided last time to vote on the confirmation of the appointment of the Council of Ministers or the Chairman of the Council of Ministers we voted immediately and the argument was quite clear, and that was said – people are present here, they need to make a solemn statement, they will not wait until we end the session to give a solemn statement. In order to make a solemn statement, they must be confirmed, and it is logical that we did so at that time. Tell us what you decided to do this time, just give us a reason. If they're logical I'll support them, if they don't, then it's something else.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17371	I think at the end of your presentation, you gave an answer. So we have a home here, we'll put it to a vote. If most estimates are... the reasons will vote, if we don't go according to the old procedure. The word is from Ambassador Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17372	Well, Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to welcome you and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers and other guests. 7 I have nothing new to add. At first we have a call to two practices, a practice that we have no parliamentary questions, and here's what we accepted and we said it was the last time. Here's if we had the practice of voting around some points separately let this be the last time. But let's hear the reasons, what my colleague Džaferović is up to, let's hear the reasons why we're doing it today. So far, we've had a reasonable explanation. We are aware of the opposition power of the parliamentary majority's hands and that everything the Expansive College brings that will pass here at Parliament, but let us at least hear and let the public hear why it is so.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17373	Thank you. Replica, deputy chairman Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17374	I thank the chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. You know our Rules of Procedure isn't perfect. The very fact that we've been working on his changes and additions for the second or third year, agreeing with Dom, I've been informed that we'll get to the new Rules of Procedure here very soon to discuss. And this is going to be one of the points we need to take care of. In our Rules of Procedure, it says that right after the debate on the initiative, it is voted on that it is in conflict with our provision of the Rules of Procedure to vote at the end on all points of the agenda. This could be one of the reasons why this initiative must be voted on immediately. And it says in the Rules of Procedure, look at the members who treat mistrust, i.e. the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, but we can also be collegiate and say that some members of the Defence Commission, whom you and Mr Džaferović belong to, have asked us, given that an important meeting is being held in Konjica, to do so in this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17375	I find that there are no more reports. I call upon the House of Representatives to plead. Please vote now whether you are in favour of having the House of Representatives immediately after the debate is concluded and pleaded on these points. I agree that we have the necessary and general and entity majority – 29 for, 6 against, 2 abstentions and that the predstavnički of Representatives has adopted this conclusion of the Extended College of the Parliamentary House of BiH. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Review of the SNSD article initiative for the need for reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers (replacement of BiH Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Ministers, BiH Deputy Defence Minister and Deputy Minister for Human Rights and Refugees) I remind Members of the SNSD Club on 18 September 2013 submitted an initiative for the need for reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers. The initiative is 19.09.2013, in accordance with Article 143. 8 Item 3. Rules of Procedure addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers, all MPs in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. The BiH Council of Ministers came forward last night or yesterday and delivered a report on the initiative this morning. The initiative was supported by the Council of Ministers, and you received the report on the benches. I'm opening a debate. The first to speak was Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17377	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Until others decide, I see already decisions are made to report for the discussion, let me say a few sentences about this question, actually to repeat some of the things that I did last year when the reconstruction was done, that is, when the replacement of ministers from the SDA also spoke. Today, we received a statement from the Council of Ministers today, in fact a report by the Council of Ministers on the need for reconstruction of the Council of Ministers of BiH, which said that the Council of Ministers at the 66th session, since yesterday, supported the initiative for the need for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the replacement of the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, BiH Deputy Minister of Defence and Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, submitted by the SNSD Club, which was delivered to the Council of Ministers by the House of Representatives, Dr Denis Bećirović. Under the BiH Constitution, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH can vote for no confidence in the Council of Ministers and that is a clear provision in Article 5. The BiH Constitution, where the Council of Ministers is said to resign if the Parliamentary Assembly votes to his mistrust. The BiH Constitution does not speak of a reconstruction anywhere, it is said only that the vote of no confidence, and in the Rules of Procedure, Article 143 says that the MPs' club or at least three MPs in the House will be able to initiate a motion to vote on the non-trust of the Council of Ministers or on the need for reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, and then the procedure that has been respected and the Council of Ministers' statement goes. And after the vote, the chairman, if adopted, is said to be, if the proposal was adopted on non-trust or on the reconstruction of the chairmanship of the House of Peoples, the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency of the results of the vote on non-trust or reconstruction and other initiatives in this respect if they existed. From these provisions, it is clear, therefore, that what was initiated by the SNSD Club, although it was addressed as a requirement for the individual replacement of ministers, which the decision under the Council of Ministers Act would have to be taken by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and we are just to discuss this, there is no such decision by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. This suggests that it is, therefore, a request for a vote of no confidence to the Council of Ministers or the need for reconstruction. These two terms in the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution does not mention this, have the same, in fact these two situations or the vote of no confidence or the voting of the need for reconstruction have the same procedure as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and have the same consequence. And that means that if today, and I am now asking the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers – are they at all aware of this fact that by voting today on the need for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, the whole Council of Ministers is losing its mandate and the whole Council of Ministers is coming, when it comes to reconstruction, under the pressure of reconstruction. So today's vote on reconstruction cannot replace the minister, Parliament cannot replace 9 ministers or deputies, it can only be replaced by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and we are making a decision on this. Parliament can vote for mistrust or need for reconstruction but the consequences are the same. There is no Council of Ministers until the new Council of Ministers is fully new or reconstructed, but the consequence is that the current Council of Ministers is becoming a technical mandate. However if this vote is voted today, this will apply to Mr. Šarović as well to the other nine members of the BiH Council of Ministers. That this is how it stems from, in my opinion, logical interpretation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Members, the Constitution, above all, BiH, Rules of Procedure from Articles 143 to 147. Because in Article 147, it is as if the vote and mistrust were passed by the chairman of the House of Peoples, the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of BiH, which you gentlemen have so far been bypassing by changing the parliamentary majority, the results of the vote on mistrust or reconstruction and other initiatives on this matter if they existed. This means that, if voted today, the BiH presidency must conduct consultations, above all, on who will be the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which is the parliamentary majority and after that, the matter returns here to parliament. If it is not possible today, so Parliament's decision to replace one minister without the previous decision of the Council of Ministers, and I am now asking the Chairman of the Council of Ministers – were they aware of these situations when they did this yesterday or does this really mean what I'm talking about. So, again as after the elections, the BiH presidency, consultations, let's see who will be the chairman, which is the programme, which is the parliamentary majority in the reconstruction. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17378	Thank you. Replica, the first deputy chairman, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17379	Thank you. Apparently, as an old friend and acquaintance of the SDS, the SDA has jumped in to help create a problem in the procedure, which is obviously quite clear, so that we can make it even bigger here, let me say, a dance and all because of the direct transmission that you all know is here today. As I said at first, the Rules of Procedure are not perfect and there are certain concerns but there is no doubt about the request, the SNSD Initiative on Reconstruction does not exist as there is no doubt about the procedures. There are two ways to go in the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. One is who has chosen the SDP through his president who directly asked the Council of Ministers to make a decision on changing SDA personnel, we have already seen this here in Parliament, and we have concluded this through the vote, i.e. confirming the decision we received from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Another way is to choose SNSD according to the Rules of Procedure to write the Club. And that, therefore, the Council of Ministers may and did not have to be made clear about this initiative and the Bureau was as familiar as the House of Peoples in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The only question here is who writes the solution decision. In the first case, it was the chairman of the Council of Ministers, in this case, under Article 150. - other acts, this Parliamentary Assembly in its term of office, and its mandate is to write a decision, will write a decision on the resolution, and this decision will then go to the House of Peoples, because only 10 Parliamentary Assembly, and we have had that so far when we have changed some ministers, can approve the change of ministers, i.e. the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. So, don't be afraid, wait until the debate is over. The SNSD club will propose a decision, we will vote on that decision, which will then be supported by the House of Peoples or not supported and the matter will be completed. I thank the Council of Ministers who yesterday, who did not have to, held a session and supported our initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17380	Thank you. We have two replicas. Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, first replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17381	So, Mr. Živković, as far as the SDS is concerned, I have been publicly speaking to the SDS is the least worthy of the SDA having such a relationship today, if at least because they have uncritically supported the shift of ministers from the SDA during last year's debate here in Parliament after the chairman of the Council of Ministers, at the request of Mr Lagumdžija, made a decision to replace two ministers from the order of the SDA and one deputy, and that was then a completely different procedure. But I'm getting up here to talk about the Constitution, I'm talking about the Rules of Procedure, and I'd talk about it no matter which political party it is. Perhaps my discussion was earned by Mr. Šarović because of his correct attitude towards work, which we saw here in Parliament what his relationship to business is, but let us leave it aside now. I just want to warn you and say that what you're doing today, from the aspect of the Constitution and from the aspect of the Rules of Procedure, is very problematic. And I didn't accidentally report at the very beginning of today's session, Parliament cannot make a decision on the replacement of a single minister, see the Council of Ministers Act, and before that, the decision on the change has not been made by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. And if you decide to be a reconstruction it's just as much as if you've voted for mistrust and the process of consultation goes. I'm saying this for future events, and that was the only reason I got up and talked about this at the beginning of the session. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17382	Thank you. Ambassador Lazar Prodanović signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17383	Dear counterpart Džaferović, I very much respect your virtual explanation of this Rules of Procedure, but I would like to remind you that we were MPs in the previous term when you voted for an identical state, including the situation that the House of Peoples does not make a decision on resolution. So, you were an MP in office when the deputy ministers were relieved, so the defence minister, the deputy minister for, I think he was foreign trade and economic relations and even your 11 security minister to also be your candidate appointed to this position. How, the same Rules of Procedure are applied, the same procedure, just explain now to the public, since this is what the media conveys, how such an interpretation of the non-compliance of the Constitution in this assembly and how the Constitution was respected in the previous meeting when it was clearly stated by the Constitution that the Parliamentary Assembly was making a decision on the resolution of ministers or Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17384	Thank you. Another replica, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17385	In this way, I end my participation in the debate on this agenda point, unfortunately, because this is my second replica after the discussion, but I have to tell my colleagues, Mr. Prodanović, Mr. Sadovic, that, especially in the previous session, if we were to discuss the replacement of individual ministers, I know exactly how to deal with Alkalaj and this, Mr. Alkalaj, Mr. Sadović, all of which I know, the deputy ministers, were previously the Council of Ministers' chairmans decisions on resolution. And I know what I'm saying, we were discussing the certificates, and it was a question of the role of the House of Peoples but it was clarified by the law and it clarified the Constitution, because the constitution does not speak of a House of Representatives that gives the right, only to the House of Representatives to confirm the appointment of non-trust, it speaks of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Parliamentary Assembly are the House of Representatives plus the House of Peoples. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17386	Thank you. MP Adnan Bašić applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17387	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, my Alliance for a Better Future is in a very unpleasant situation, the people would say between the hammers and the anvils in this tumultuous, dreary, turbulent time that rock our country, our country, I think this is the last thing we need right now and here. To shake the legislative-executive power of one such initiative may be easy to perform in another country with some normal times. Today, here's how it echoed. Here, after a very long time I hear that even state television is broadcasting to today's congregation. So it's a very, very serious thing, and here we all have to be cold-blooded, to think about the moves we're going to make, the acts we're going to have and the words we're going to say. We, I can say openly, are most concerned by the reasoning that is part of this initiative. The whole reason is that Mr. Šarović, my respect for Mr. Minister, because I have very clear knowledge that he was very good, very efficient and very honest doing his job, but did not represent enough of the entity from which he came. And it puts it painfully again on the wallpaper of that point which often revolves on this Parliament – whether our Council of Ministers represents our 12 countries and the state of BiH or only its entity or party from which it comes. It is the best issue that should be plagued both this Parliament and the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, it's even open here to know why. As we vote, believe in this... relationship that exists in this House seems to be the least important, at least when it comes to our party, but we will vote... But I fear this will not end only at this session, that it will not only end on the shift of this minister and other members of the SDS Council, but the turbulence will also cause the second point that comes after this – the replacement of the secretary of this Parliament. And you know what that means if it happens, and of course... the consequences will be even greater. That's why I didn't want to prejudge anything, I'm not a lawyer, there's going to be a very difficult battle here from the legal point of view,...after all, and of course from the political point of view even more difficult. I ask you to remain worthy that none as reasonable as grown-up smart, intelligent people, the greatest electors of your people in BiH, who should be properly represented here, we come out of this difficult crisis which unfortunately was imposed on us in the way it was imposed. Please think about it one more time. I love my country of BiH, I don't like Dayton BiH, but I highly appreciate it and respect it because I don't have others right now. As long as she's here, I have to respect her, to be reasonable, to respect her laws, to respect everything I have to respect, and especially, like all of you who are chosen, to do so publicly. In the name of all that, please... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17388	I thank Ambassador Bašić. The following has applied for a discussion by MEP Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17389	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I think that this point and this debate today, although so far there have been many examples that have shown that this government and this majority of the current ones know the creation of a crisis, the effective creation of crises in BiH, the creation of constant conflicts and in some way looking for some answers how to shift responsibility from the real state that we have in the country to something else by inventing some false problems, false crises, by putting BiH institutions in crisis. And I think today on this one, right here on this point in this discussion, that's what's best to confirm. There have been several examples so far as it has worked, but here at this point today we can see how it is actually trying to end one of the perhaps most unsuccessful mandates that the Council of Ministers or most at BiH level has had from Dayton to today. So from 2010 to 2014 we have had constant crises led by people and led by politicians who obviously know only that. In the period when we have everything... from Europe, from employment, from economic parameters, from our internal position and from the security that we have in the country, the only thing we have been able to deal with consistently in this past period from 2010 to 2014 were crises. And you will see that in fact this and that approach and that and that principle of leadership of this country will remain recorded as the most negative and worst in the history of this country since '95, in this period of '95. To this day. Živković mentioned earlier that the SDS is stepping in to help someone. We cannot do this, Mr. Chairman, Vice-President, so we have no intention of jumping anyone into any kind of help, only less what we intend to do is give 13 space and give, in some way, a failure of power and give some chance to a failed authority that by the time of the 2014 elections, they can tell us that they really can't do anything because they have some crisis of institutions, they have some crisis of government, a crisis of the country's institutions. And that is why what we need to do today, I believe that in this sense it will be enough and support here fellow Members of Parliament, indeed bring this ball down on the floor and in some way show that we will try to make as much use of this period and this term as we do by the 2014 elections for this country. Yesterday, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I would really like to have heard at first the position of the Council of Ministers as a man, who spoke here most positively yesterday about the Council of Ministers, talked about these positive things that were done and, of course, pointed out in that sense the positive role of the minister that he is changing today, that he is about to inform us about what the real reasons for which, here, yesterday, the majority council of ministers has decided, or was determined to support the shift of Minister Šarović. I believe that one such proposal, one such initiative, one such approach that we have in the country is extremely irresponsible, extremely irresponsible, I think that it is unfair to the citizens of this country because, in fact, by one such move, in the period when we were brought into a position that BiH was recently on the agenda of the Council of Europe, to drive us out of one institution and to actually put us in a basket with Belarus. I've spent 16 months, you know, so I've talked to my colleague about it so many times, I've prayed to put on the agenda of a session like this, a joint session of the House of Representatives, a story about our Euro-Atlantic path, a story about our position on the EU road. 85% of people in this country believe that European integration...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17390	Please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17391	I am, the chairman, very much at this point in the agenda, if Europe isn't...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17392	It's the Minister's shift.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17393	Well, shifting ministers is the most direct obstacle to this story about Europe. Instead of discussing it and cutting off our path, so we made BiH not completely blocked, someone must be responsible for bringing us into this position, we are today opening such a completely unnecessary story that should only serve those who have actually shown in this past period that they are not able to lead this country. Therefore, my colleague Džaferović spoke about the legal procedure, I can already, in some ways, be aware that we will enter these legal gaps very quickly, so who is he who will be responsible for this process of changing Minister Šarović, i.e.... The Council of Ministers until the 2014 elections, who is the one who will be responsible when the thing, here after this is obviously going to be in some dead end. I would really like to ask the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of Bevanda today, I would ask the heads of the business parties who have said that in this period, so a year before the elections, they will support one of these initiatives and enter one of these, into one of these processes, to come out here for a pay phone, here we heard... we have the media here, so that this public, the Bosnianherzegovina 14 public, can follow, tell us what the real reasons are, that they are justified in trying to convince us what the real reasons are that we have today one such initiative, to take responsibility for this situation. I would like to ask the heads of political parties, I have read the SNSD initiative, so the SNSD initiative says that Minister Šarović and two deputy ministers should be replaced, among other things, because of the failure of the programme, it can be discussed by the chairman of Bevanda, the failure of the programme, the plans and the obligations taken on board. So we know what it is, what Minister Šarović's obligations were, to see what obligations he failed to fulfil. Another thing, due to insufficient representation of Republika Srpska's interest in BiH's joint institutions, i.e. in BiH institutions. I would really like the people who are politically behind this, who have said that their parties will support one such approach, and say, therefore, that is why they will stand behind it, among other things... which we have received, which is because Minister Šarović should be punished because he has not sufficiently represented the interests of Republika Srpska, the minister who is minister in the Council of Ministers, or Minister of BiH. So here, finally, I expect that we have one fair approach, one fair answer to the citizens of this country. I think it's perfectly legitimate to make different combinations, to make most of them on this or on that basis, but it's not fair for people to cheat like this and actually, here it is in 2013, so since '95. We have less or more in this term but in full, we have had one approach to leading this country in constant crises, in constant conflicts, that at the same time these people who create this have an excuse to say that BiH can't really move forward. And those who are the most responsible why she doesn't go forward, here's what we do here today. I believe that we must have the strength in BiH to break one of these negative practices, because if this is going to be some model that this country will function after the 2014 elections, then it doesn't matter who makes up a majority. But I think we need to show responsibility for the situation and we need to show responsibility for what we really need to go to. Because those who are leading the country and who are now bringing it into this position where we are, I think they have to go out for this pay phone first and say today what they're creating after this many crises. On the other hand, who will be responsible for the situation ahead of us, and who will be responsible for the complete deadlock in which BiH is located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17394	Thank you. Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17395	Well, the replica of fellow Šepić. I hope that you have in mind that we don't all have a short memory when it comes to this constant conflict that you're talking about and these constant conflicts, and I need to remind you of the time of your reign that will remain recorded in black. Well, let's remind you that for five years we've passed the Census Act and that we have all these problems that we have because we've been dealing with for five years, with your insolent insistence that it never happens, that we've come to the Law. Secondly, to launch vital national interest in key laws that are a condition for liberalisation, key laws that the EU observes well, what we do with the Law on Citizenship, with the 15 Law on a single birth number where you raise questions about the procedure for protecting national interest. Is this the efficiency and speed used by the SDA when it comes to the European path? And in the end, it's not right when you talk about ministers, your ministers who will also be remembered. The DOD won't be able to get out of the mess for years, and the Ministry of Security won't even be able to talk. So please be consistent when you mention your great engagement in the previous period.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17396	Thank you. Ambassador Senad Šepić has his first line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17397	I suggest that my colleague Majkić listen to his speech a year ago when we replaced the foreign minister here. When we had the initiative, we had someone called the grouping of some MPs, to make a front that would replace one of those who is now the most responsible that we have this state in the country. It would be good if you listened to that stenogram. It's easy, very fast to find. When it comes to the U.S.A., of course, things were going slowly because of the blockades and the hundreds of blockades we have. But, Ms. Majkić, you know that in this period, it was neither a Stabilisation and Association Agreement nor a European way, of course, we will not talk about what position we were in and what position we had in the Council of Europe, but all those reforms, the real reforms that meant a common path and a common approach, which we all lived better wherever we were, in any space in BiH, were done when the SDA had real power. And then we did a good part of these things of course with you, only it could never have happened, so we run processes in this country, that democratisation of institutions, the state system, we question what, today, our colleague Belkić mentioned, don't have any parliamentary issues. Before that, we had the practice of voting 6-7 key laws by emergency procedure. We didn't have a discussion at all about what a conflict of interest would look like, what the Electoral Law would look like, what the Court and the Prosecution would look like. So, we now at this time when you're not running the SDA key processes, and you've stayed and now on the other hand, so now in this period we have a situation that you've managed to bring these current partners into a position that the states are getting smaller and smaller. So that's the difference that's crucial and that's going to show up very quickly after the 2014 elections, it's certainly going to be a strong partner on this side who's going to guard the BiH state and we're going to do it in a way that nobody in this country is going to be tight and that nobody in this country is going to be hurt that we're doing it. I think that's the way to go. And so when you do that analysis, then you'll see that that's a huge difference between what the SDA was doing, because the results are what we need to be our standard, and what we have right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17398	Replica, MP Saša Magazinović. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17399	Dear Chairman, Vice-President, colleagues, colleagues, others present, I welcome you all. I really didn't want to hear from you at this stage of the debate, but somehow my colleague, Šepić, forced me to do it on one of his own, with such a populist statement, probably the result of a direct TV transmission, is that right? It's interesting, I can't help but notice, that colleagues from the U.S.A. have reported themselves, and in fact they're the only defenses of the SDS so far, and they're lawyers for them, from procedures, for reasons and all. It's interesting, so I'm noticing. And it's a perfectly legitimate right. The last time they lawyered each other, it tragically ended, with a million displaced people, and I don't want to take other consequences. But then, if this discussion is opened, we have much to say about it. It's about putting things together at the beginning. Yesterday, the Council of Ministers declared its SNSD initiative. And during the debate, there was talk of an explanation mentioned by a respected counterpart, Šepić, which is part of an explanation where it is said that Minister Šarović did not stand up enough for RS interests. That's where we agree, that can't be the reason for the Secretary of State's shift. Obviously, it is an argument made for the electoral body, which both SNSD and SDS are fighting for at the same time. And it's definitely that the argument was made for daily policy purposes and it's more marketing than essential. And in that part of his exposure, Šepić is right when he says - let's talk about the real reasons. And what are the real reasons and what is the truth? It is true that we have a huge political conflict that is mainly happening in the BiH area called Republika Srpska, between these two political parties, so SNSD and SDS. And the conflict threatens to spill over to BiH institutions and paralyze them. We won't, and we can't, we don't have that luxury. Today, we do not declare ourselves here whether we are for the SDS, which has organized a welcome to the Krajisnik, and against the SNSD, who are waving a referendum or vice versa. So that's not what we're pleading about today. We don't have emotions for each other in the SDP, and we don't even share the same values anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17400	The time for the first replica is up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17401	Last sentence, however, we will today commit ourselves by voting in fact to or against blocking the functioning of BiH institutions, and in this sense we will demonstrate our responsibility by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17402	Ambassador Asim Sarajlić, correction of the false allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17403	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't need to protect my colleague Šepić from Mr. Magazinović here, but I'm very glad that the SDP club chief called here for a replica. And to remind only my colleague Magazinović, 17 so it was not long ago, the 2010 elections, so his head of the party, today's foreign minister and Saša in the delegation, the first meeting after the elections over the formation of the government had just been held with the SDS delegation. So much for this retrospective and historical insight that caused millions of displaced and victims, etc. Let me remind you that at that time, the SDP has brutally frozen its political work. So what we have today is exactly what Mr. Šepić was talking about. Mr. Džaferović pointed to the legal framework of this situation and we will discuss it further. But Mr. Šepić said that today we are the hostages of two people in BiH, Mr. Dodik and Mr. Lagumdžija who are trying to be Mr. Dodik. To be autonomous rulers and to be all slaves, both the institutions and the legislative and executive powers of this country to be slaves to these two states, to say the leaders who prefer to run these areas in BiH. And it's actually sad that from here on out, we've also reminded the shift, the launch of Mr. Lagumdžija's shift here, that, in fact, what my colleague Živković was talking about at the previous sessions, the offers of who would make a better offer and what kind of offer, that here's the third one, here's the fourth year, we're dealing with. It's not a dispute. There's no SDA in power. Why is Mr. Šarović and the others on the wallpaper today? Who will be tomorrow to remain Mr. Lagumdžija Foreign Minister? That's the question. Why don't Mr. Lagumdžija and Dodik agree on some key matter on the European path or NATO road, etc.? Why do we always have shifts, why do we have attacks on the institutions of this country, on the Court, on the Prosecutor's Office, on certain agencies, why people are arrested, here without orders from the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, etc.? What are we talking about here? So, BiH will come out if Bog gives out of this crisis, it will come out after the 2014 elections, but here we have to name the culprit for today's situation. It's not Mr. Bevanda. And he's a hostage to this situation today. Only Mr. Lagumdžija and Mr. Dodik are the culprits in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17404	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17405	If my colleague Sarajlić had a phobia, a burden, whatever you want to call it, the president of the political party who beat his party in the past elections and who personally won a lot more votes, were on the same list, but Sarajlić, we know that, we know that, I think at least here in the hall. It's a transfer today, and then it's a little bit of pre-named, because it's probably one of the families looking at it, so if they say after the transfer, you're great, so let's just say it, it's an honor and so on. However, when we talk about conversations in this country, we are required, everyone who deals with this business, to talk to everyone. We are obliged to do, each and every one of us, their utmost to create partnerships in this country, partnerships on concrete projects. And that's good, that's good, and that's what it's supposed to be. And every partnership is good. As long as the personification of this partnership is not tied to flags and displaced people. All that doesn't have that kind of consequence as a partnership is good. 18 And as we go back in time, I can't even remember that Dejton when there was an offer on the table to ban the SDS. Well, let the rest of them remember who was against SDS being banned. But these are some things, let's talk about the future. And when we talk about the future then we talk about dialogue, we talk about partnership, we talk about reconciliation in BiH. And we clearly demonstrated it. It doesn't matter who the position is, who the opposition is. These are variable categories, today is one thing, tomorrow is another. But it's an important approach. And the approach should be, to try it all together in our capacity, someone's bigger, someone's humbler, it doesn't matter, but we all try to make a contribution together to move some things off the dead end. And I know and understand both in some way and I don't mind a fellow Sarajlić who has a problem justifying 17 years of disaster, that he must find someone, a party, a group of people or anything else to direct the public's attention to that side. You see, it's very difficult in a very short time to correct something that's been rocking for 17 years. And what's been rocking for 17 years is called BiH. And BiH did not only spoil those that Mr. Sarajlić thinks, but also his party that has great responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17406	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17407	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17408	I thank Ambassador Magazinović. It was another replica. The second line also has an MP, Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17409	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, as I personally and the people who are sitting in the SDA Club are breaking this country up about it, we can talk about it, where we tied the flags, where we acted and what attitudes about aggression on BiH, let's say, colleagues of Magazinović, that's what we're going to discuss. So, I'm not answering here to be seen by my mother, or my wife, or the target population, and I don't care how many Mr. Lagumdžija votes he had, I'm talking about the current state of the country that is catastrophic and for which he is directly guilty. So it's directly his fault. So, let's remember the 2010 elections, let's remember how long the BiH government crisis lasted, forming a Council of Ministers, forming a Federation-level government. That's what the HDZ colleagues here know. If it weren't for my mother's fault that the hazmat was the government after a year and a half in BiH and this Council of Ministers. Who brought together these six-man leaders, then formed the Council of Ministers? Is it Zlatko Lagumdžija? So the SDA was then the initiator of all positives, of course not alone. And so, what I'm talking about, where are your, Mr. Magazinović, proposals in front of the SDP on that European road? Where is your amendment to the Constitution on Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci, what did you suggest, what did you propose to this Parliament, what is on the pro-European path? Here's what you suggested was military property, military property law along with the SBB, and we supported it as an opposition. Instead of congratulating it, you're now looking for some banal reasons to justify your boss here. And I here responsibly claim that Zlatko Lagumdžija, in order to preserve his position in the Council of Ministers and to preserve the SDP in power, will give Dodik everything. And that shows today's session. There's no SDA in the 19th Council of Ministers. This shows today the SDS, tomorrow we will see who will come in line, SBB, HDZ, it is irrelevant to produce the crisis, which Mr. Šepić was talking about. What can Lagumdžija do with Dodik? It can divide the resources of Electrotransmitters to patch up entity budgets, and to break down a roof company formed at the state level that is now stagnating due to the Dodik blockade and as now Lagudmžij has solved something. And I can agree to introduce an Italian partner to the Central Drin and that the ministry run by Šarović is a distraction and that's why we're replacing him here today. Let's talk about these things openly. So I point to two key problems in BiH, the overall crisis we have been living for three years, which is Lagumdžija and Dodik.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17410	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17411	I thank the chairman. Here, although we are trying in some way to, waiting for the debate to go in line with the agenda point, it goes of course, which cannot be avoided, and in some other directions. I would just remind my colleague Sarajlić not to go too far in this Bosniak conflict, because these cameras came because of the Serb conflict. And you will leave, and you will let down those people who organized this thing, and they were not Srbin among themselves, and now you have not organized this for them. So make sure you calm down that kind of problem in the Federation. So I have to react to a few things and say, here I am, a solid number of years here and when I look and listen to people from today, because only you talk, from the SDA, I have a feeling, your policy is like a barrel, but without meat. On the side, it looks like there's something going on when you look at no meat and what's left of old imported wheat. That's what it looks like when, when, I don't know if you're listening to yourself. And usually a lot of people, and when they open that barrel of yours, they see what it's all about, and then they run away from you this way. You're the only party that's ever been replaced here by your minister. So you, had a chance to choose him and kept us here hostage for three months replacing your minister. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17412	Don't leave the scene, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17413	I don't even agree with this finding that only women look at you. Women don't usually like to watch, but they watch this and others. So you, your minister, and you've held the whole coalition, you've changed, now you're giving a lecture, and I don't know if you're listening to yourself. In one sentence, you and Mr. Šepić say that it is a disaster, that it is very bad, that nothing is wrong, that it is never worse. And when the ones you're making responsible for this disaster try to change something, you're chorusly jumping and not giving and 20 defending it. Wait, is it okay or isn't it good? Is Minister Šarović part of what's wrong? Well, I'm, uh, I'm just trying to listen to what you're saying. A disaster when those who rule try to change something, it's the same thing when you take away this master's tools and tell him what you didn't do, I don't know, a better burek, and then you ask him about it. I think you're being ridiculous. I don't think so, it's not right because here and those who watch all remember everything. It's not the SNSD's explanation, it doesn't say that it's not in place. The one representing the interests of the RS does not mean that it is against the interests of others. If it is assessed that Mr Bevanda is not a good representative of Herzegovina, and for us it is acceptable, he does not mean that by representing Herzegovina he will be against the RS or against BiH. Where did you get that thesis? So everyone has their own concerns, their own needs, and they're,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17414	Replication time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17415	And they're acceptable until they're pointed at someone else. So our attitude was in that sense. We will not afford today to those who wish for some kind of internal conflict, the government in the RS is very stable and there is no problem unlike the Federation, which is not the place for me to open, because I am giving a lecture to others, so that I would not open it, and we will not afford today an opportunity for those who hope for a fierce Serbian conflict, neither is it a place, nor is there a time, nor is there a need for such a leclech from the SDA, because the government of a minister changes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17416	The Republic has a letter from Azra Hadžiahmetović, and everyone else, I ask that while the MP or MPs say they don't report for a word until they get it. Here's your colleague, Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17417	I thank the chairman. It would be useful here in this room to fix the technique a little bit because just before the women mentioned in this discussion we didn't have a chance to hear what it was about, so maybe it wouldn't be bad to do it again. But here's my contribution to this discussion, to the replicas that are beyond the subject we're talking about. So, colleague Kalabić, there's no problem with the Federation. I don't know what's going on here, 'cause let's just remind ourselves. The Federation has SDA and SDP partners in power. They're holding the federal government. Equally, a colleague of Sarajlić's is not the state only in Mary's Court. Do not discuss with colleagues Magazinović, i.e. with SDP on behalf of the party or on behalf of the MPs' club, in the context of washing anyone's responsibility or any political options here, address as if it were none of your business. So, the government in this country shares in the Federation and the SDP and the SDA, in cantons and SDP and SDA, and please spare these MPs and the public, when you already refer to the cameras, the facts as if you are absolutely not involved in all of this. And you're not the only one. I apologize for speaking to you, I do, but here I want to appeal to return to the agenda. And stop saying that the problem here is at the SDA – SDP as a federal problem. No, they're partners in power, they're holding the federal government. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17418	Ambassador, Beriz Belkić is having a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17419	So I've just spoken about these procedures and principles and principles as well as how we function. We have practically turned this debate into replicas that in most cases had nothing to do with the agenda. But here's what we have in the BiH Party about this situation. First, I would like to thank the BiH Television for being here today. I just couldn't figure out what the reason was, did any of these excise laws, animal welfare, etc. or the conclusion of this Parliament is carried out. But here, we'll find out. It seems we today, as the people would say, have driven out the rabbit and driven out the bear. And we'll hear a lot of things here. In our view, this is not a political event of planetary importance, nor will it be of any benefit to the people of this country, nor will certain visible progress arise when it comes to the overall political and economic social situation in BiH. So we simply view this as a continuation of the accounting within the governing structure that has announced that it is working on the platform, the programme coalition and is bringing changes to the 2006-2010 mandate, of which nothing happened. So, this is not the beginning of personal accounts, this is the follow-up in which they were previously appointed and later resolved personnel from all parties, except for these several parties sitting in this last bench, where the Party for BiH, which can practically say that there is an opposition party in this term. I'll be very brief on the explanation. What Mr. Bašić, Šepić, etc. has been talking about for 10 years here in this House, arguing that this is not the House of Entity, arguing that these are institutions and not common, etc. However, here are the official documents, TV shows, newspapers, you have the expression of a common institution. So it's generally accepted and it's not a problem. The problem is who understands it. Surely Mr Mirko Šarović worked in the interests of the citizens, i.e. in the interest of BiH, an institution whose is part. And that's how he worked in the interest of both the Federation and the RS, but that's not what it is, obviously, to say, for us this is a simple continuation of the reckoning. We're not taking part in this. This isn't our job. So we've been pretty clear. That's how we treated it, and when it was being set up, was there a problem, Mr. Sarajlić? There's no food, and I'm here to nod you, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17420	Comrade Sarajlić, I am asking you now to make it possible for the MP to, here are several times, unfocus the people who speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17421	No, no, we just said goodbye, everything's fine, he was alive.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17422	Please don't say goodbye, you have a word and go ahead. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17423	So to conclude, you're not helping me, you're not helping people all the time, but here I am. Here, I conclude, Mr. Bećirović, I conclude. So this is not our job, we consider this to be a calculation of the ruling structures that we think will continue, that this will not be the end today, that it will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17424	I thank Ambassador Belkić. Next, MP Mladen Bosić applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17425	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I was waiting to answer the word expecting the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda, to come out and explain what he had given us as the conclusion of the Council of Ministers, to explain why he did not come out and say – I am asking for Mr Šarović's resignation because he asked me to do so because he did so when he was talking about SDA's shifts. I've been waiting to hear from the representatives of the SNSD, who submitted this initiative, to explain this initiative. This sentence here we've heard several times, which has its own extension, which no one has read, which says they take responsibility from now on, that they will better defend the interests of the RS than they did with the SDS. It obviously has nothing to do with reality, and we all know that this argument is not something that's the real reason. Now, what's the real reason I think we should open that debate. First of all, I have to thank Mirko Šarović, Mirko Okolić and Radmila Mitrović for their work so far, who have worked as minister and two deputies at the Council of Ministers. And the SDS thanked them for doing this job in the best possible way and for meeting the expectations of those who proposed them in those places. Mirko Šarović is the man who has performed the most of his duties in this country. He was the president of the RS, was a member of the BiH presidency, meaning also the chairman of the BiH presidency. And he accepted the minister's duties on behalf of the party in the new Council of Ministers with the desire for the party to make the biggest possible contribution to the better somehow. Unfortunately, I can now conclude that these past three years, since the last general elections of 2010, have been eaten by locusts. We didn't come anywhere, we didn't do anything. Everything that's been done is done in individual cases of goodwill. So, is the reason why our ministers and deputies didn't do well clear to everyone, no. Here I will now tell you the anecdote I heard the other day, actually a comment I heard from an EU official, a lady who said they were enticed when, some time ago, on behalf of Serbia, Rasim Ljajić Bošnjak of Serbia, and Mirko Šarović of BiH together made an agreement to resist EU pressures to open the market. Maybe it's one of Mirko Šarović's sins. Maybe it bothers someone here. Is the sin of Mirko Šarović asking to open a debate on whether the foreigners should be given our energy resources, warning that BiH has an obligation to provide renewable sources of 20% by 2020. Years, and if we give those last resources to strangers, we can't meet that obligation. Maybe that's a sin, too. It probably is. But it's 23 because of this situation that makes it clear to me further with these political forces, with political views like this, with a policy that comes down to only fighting, leg planting, cheating and misleading citizens, that we will certainly not get far. I see there's no Mr. Bevanda here. I agree with my colleague Džaferović, this is all a job that is not based on acts and laws. But probably the rule of the majority and the violence of the majority over the minority will end this business here today. And the fact that there is no Bevanda here, that he has not come out and explained that he is looking for the shift of Mirko Šarović, I see as a small ray of morality and shame that he participates in this ugly business. Also, Magazinović, who talked about how they will not vote in favour and against Šarović, will vote to prevent the Council of Ministers' blockade, speaks enough of this overall situation here. Has anyone blackmailed you with something, Mr. Magazinović? Did they tell you we'll block the institutions if you don't drive Mirko Šarović out of the Council of Ministers? There's a little bit of an open talk about what the problem is. And the problem is political relations. Political relations, non-discipline coalitions, relations based solely on trade. I see that a little different thing from a colleague from the SDA. I think here is the political axis around which everything revolves, the Dodik-Čović-Covic axis. The very fact that all the political leaders were under attack, except for the two of them, clearly tells what the background of this whole situation is. And don't let Mr. Lagumdžija fool himself. They publicly, Dodik said it publicly on television, opened a competition for the Bosniak partner, who will approach them, expecting parties with a Bosniak omen to race who will be closer to the authorities. That's how I see this whole process. And that's how I see responsibility for this condition that we've all come to together. Pam to it, what's good about this is that the masks are down. When masks fall, new solutions must be sought, changes must occur. The change that means taking down those who work, taking down those who draw forward is something that will only lead to real change. And these real changes are likely to come in 2014. And don't be fooled that the people are so uneducated politically and so primitive that you can push more and more into it as the truth. I already know there will be big changes. First of all, I know there will be a change in RS, and remember my words – this club ahead, the SNSD Club will have half as many MPs as it does now. And that's going to be the result of this and this kind of policy that they're leading. It'll come in less than a year. But this country and this people need this kind of politics and this kind of personal interest and this kind of trade to endure another year, it's a huge period. We've brought politics down to the ordinary store. In this building, words still echo – who gives more. We heard those words here at the pay phone by SNSD. Afterwards we heard those words from the SDP – who gives more. Niko one mentions the common interest. Niko one mentions how we will be in charge of our resources and make a hydrocentrale, but how we will share what was found in an account intended for the development of electricity transmissions in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17426	The time of 10 minutes is up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17427	Gentlemen, with this kind of policy, we won't get far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17428	The replica was registered by Vice-President Milorad Živković. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17429	Thank you. Here, I'll start with the anecdote. By the way, when we went here, we took "Free Bosnia" from the colpotiers, and the man said don't give or touch Mirko Šarović, he's good for BiH. There was a lot of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the SDS discussion, a little RS, just once and at the end. Here are already the over-indulgent ministers and deputies of the SDS because they have already publicly praised their work, and then mention certain procedures that are not fine, although it is clear to everyone that everything is here and business, both legal and constitutional. That BiH is dear to the people of the SDS shows also a data that cannot be lied to or said politically about it, that the largest number of laws in 2002 and 2006, when you were the government here at BiH level, was adopted in this House, 229, unlike '96-98. Whatever. 20, '98 - 2000. 23, 2000-2002. 63, 2006-2010 44. Probably, this convocation, you know how much it's brought in. And you say that you will find a partner and on a political basis, not at a trade in the 2014 to 2018 mandate to make BiH here. A lot of Bosnia and Herzegovina again. And the same people in the RS who live have no short sense, and this same people well knows who they will trust to defend the interests of the RS here. And the interests of the RS in the Council of Ministers only of the Tariff Act, which only you of the SDS voted for, is violated, if nothing is violated because of the authority given to this Council of Ministers which you want to make a government out of him, rather than to remain the Council of Ministers, as it says in the law, is the way you think you get votes in the RS. I want to tell you that it is time for you to return to the ground, that it is time to realize that there are only half of you of the SNSD MPs in this House. That it is time for you to know that up to the election one year and that today is the day when you will only swallow the first bitter pill in relation to political action, and then follow each day the next, until you return to where you belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17430	Replica, Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17431	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, not thinking at all about participating in this rashamony, but I have to say, for reason of common sense, some of the things to be respected Mr. Bosić. You have addressed us in your address as one fierce opposition leader, as if you had never smelled power and as if at this time you were not involved, through the persons and Mr. Šarović and the other two deputy ministers, in that same government. It's like you're not even here. So you're part of the government still. We don't know yet, maybe you're prejudge the results of the vote, maybe you know something that the rest of us don't know. What if this initiative fails, what about your debate? What about your debate if the initiative fails? You have already regretted Šarović and Okolić and the Deputy Minister of the House. You have already made them sorry. That's one thing. Transfer the ball to anyone else, you are to me one of the equal, one of the equal leaders of the six, still. Now tell us here that there's some axis like this, like, look, you should've been at these meetings where you participated completely evenly. If a month ago, six months ago, you had stepped out of that six-year-old with the argument you made today, I would have applauded you, that would have been principled. But 25 today you're talking about the shortcomings of others with whom you've created the condition that we have today, don't, it's not correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17432	Replica, MP Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17433	So, first of all, let me answer this last one. It's true that we participated, and I said, here every contribution to improving the situation was individual, random, non-strategic and unplanned. And that's why I said Mr. Šarović was doing his job well. If their shift isn't voted by chance, then we'll sit down and think about what to do. So, then we as a party will make decisions as far as possible. If the shift is voted, it's clear what our position is. So what I'm talking about, I guess it's less clear to everyone. It's clear who makes the arrangements, who makes the laws, who the main partners are, and who the side players are in six. Ask Mr. Raguž how he feels about it. I would answer this to Mr. Živković, which says the full mouth of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the SDS, so we don't lead our policy to another. So our request to Šarović was for the BiH minister to work for the benefit of all. In favour of both the RS and the Federation and BiH, he is in charge of it, because he is BiH's minister, not to work so that he will plant hooks and do something against the Federation to allegedly make the RS better. That's the answer to how we expected our people to do their job and how they did it together. And in the end, here I am, nakeding everything. What's behind this attack? So it's not Šarović, it's not people who did bad work. In the background of the attack is the concealment of what is happening in RS, that new affairs are opening up every day in the RS. In RS, courts judge hundreds of millions of damages to foreigners. In RS, it is publicly said that 800 million KM has gone from one factory abroad. In RS, pensioners have less pensions than in the Federation. There are a lot of problems with this government in the RS. And that's the reason this symmetry this time on SDS.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17434	Three minutes for correcting false allegations has an MP, Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17435	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, it's as if it's an emergency, so today the BH television broadcasts this, and it had a million better reasons and a situation to be a direct transmission. But good. Dear Mr. Bosić, as president of the party, of course I cannot take your right, but you speak here today more than you are present at Parliament for three years. I see you at the beginning of the session, you disappear until the vote and you're gone. And today because of direct transmission, you have transferred the whole story from the RS to BH level. Who's talking about RS today? No Niko has asked this initiative for the shift of Mirko Šarović against BiH, and what RS is bitter about, and the SNSD is bitter about some alleged jobs that only you stand for, and you are fond of BiH. And here we are against everything. 26 Mr. Bosić, I fully understand that you are defending your minister and that is a legitimate right, and of Mr. Šarović's moral qualities I would not speak of, we are talking today about the position performed by Minister Šarović, but I will tell you, here when the SNSD translated the Dayton Agreement and delivered everyone to the benches, that even the MPs of the SDS did not want to take and I was just controlling whose seats the remaining translations of the Dayton Agreement were. Come on, what the SDA didn't take, that's logical, they'll never accept it. And today a big story about BiH, and it is known that only it can function in Dayton BiH, there is no other. There's no pre-war, no post-war, no since yesterday, no since 2010, no since when is Slavic, no since when are you MPs. It has Dayton BiH and it's the only one that can function. And please, Mr. Bosić, I don't want this to be a personal matter with you and anyone from the SDS, but why do you use every opportunity to use the entire political dissension you make at RS level, and there you do whatever you want in Parliament, that's allowed democratic right, no one is denying you, you want to move to BiH level. And that's always your goal. Well, if it's a shift, if it's an initiative, if it's the wrong entrance we're going in or where we're sitting, and you're sitting on another floor. You will all use it to involve neither the guilty nor the SNSD president who is not a member of Parliament in this whole story. Please mention here a member of Parliament, Mr. Živković, Kalabić, me, Mrs. Majkić, Mrs. Milica, Laz Prodanović, Boško Tomić, Saša Bursać, and here is our coalition friend Kunić. Please mention the MPs who are here in Parliament, not in the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17436	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17437	Well, I should, I'll call for a discussion, there'll be time, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17438	Only in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The word has, or replica, Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17439	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I will try to say a few things, of course not wanting it to be just in the defense of Mr Mladen Bosić, president of our Serbian Democratic Party, who is doing it far better than we are, so he is the first man in the SDS and everything he said is behind it, and there is more of which, of course, is not possible to say in 10 minutes, or in 3 minutes of replication. But at the very beginning, I have to say that I am frozen, or disgusted, or whatever you want, by the discussion of Mr. Živković who says that due to the SDS, there is allegedly less Republika Srpska. Mr. Živković wouldn't have been there if it hadn't been for the ideological creator of the RS. Do not address the political party whose merits are created by Republika Srpska. And I am telling you that this procedure of the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats will have serious damage above all to the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17440	My colleague Sarajlić, please, my colleague Bojić is speaking, please listen to this discussion. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17441	There's a very rogobat term, which I'm not going to use now, when it comes to the qualification of the procedure that you've done by asking allies to deal with the SDS, there's places where we're going to do it, and that's the RS and the National Assembly of the RS. That's where we need to discuss these issues, not looking for allies to deal with the political party here, with the SDS. I feel very sad that in this House I speak in the way I am now speaking, and the reason for it is that you and your SNSD initiative, which will leave the long-term consequences for representatives of the RS who will be elected to the joint institutions to protect the interests of the RS and the Serbian people and certainly everyone who loves RS, regardless of what people they come from. So that's what's crucial, Mr. Živković, which is what I want to tell you. I want to tell you the same thing when it comes to tariff law, because Mr. Šarović is not able to answer that question, and I have very little time, there will be an opportunity, so we voted together, we unanimously passed the law in question, I don't have time to read to you, and there will be opportunities in the discussion, so what the Chamber of Commerce of RS has said, many RS firms such as Bema and others. But to take this time to just say one sentence, so to the person who has given certain qualifications to Mladen Bosić like Slavko Jovičić, who is here demagogue and he, therefore, controlled what was taken by the SDS here, that I remember Mr. Jovičić, you did so when the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia was in the Palace and such persons are often called converts. So I am running out of time, and there will be opportunities for us to discuss these issues as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17442	A colleague, Šepić, had a discussion and one replica, has another replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17443	So I think it's always good when the chairman and vice-president Živković comes forward, is he brilliantly hitting the bottom of the head, and it's good that we had this discussion today in which he says, I quote - it's a sin that these people passed laws and that they were actually trying in the Council of Ministers, or the Council of Ministers to act as someone who makes a strong government and that's why they should be replaced. And my colleague Živković boasts that in the past term two hundred and another law has been passed in the BiH Parliament, so it is actually a key problem that these people should be replaced, not by the fact that we are declared the most unsuccessful in this term, Živković, not only here in BiH, but in the region. I once had an ungrateful role to play on behalf of this Parliament to participate in a discussion with colleagues, a public show on Al Jazeer TV about the functioning of parliaments in the region. I have to tell you how hard and ugly I felt in that position, but I've actually been brought into that position by one of the logics that you mentioned earlier, which is that, as little law in this House should be passed and that we should actually do that this institution and this country is not working. Bosić is there, not wanting to be his lawyer, answered – I don't think we can make anyone happy in this country without doing it on the accident of others. And that's why every approach and every policy that tries to set relations in BiH I believe that people will recognize it, too, I believe that people in the RS will recognize it as well. Because recently when we were doing one analysis, we saw that 92% of the people surveyed in our country asked – what do you think BiH politicians need to have as the first topic of their political action, 92% of the people said – work, give us new jobs, give us a job, 28th of all solve this issue of Europe. 82% of people believe we should become an urgent member of the EU. We're talking one thing and on the other hand, we're obviously doing everything we can to make sure that doesn't happen. But what I've reported specifically here, I think it's important that we run around like that, and that's how we channel the next debate, because at the end of this, we're going to have to define ourselves against this initiative, so I expect the Federation partners, who said they're behind what SNSD is doing, behind what Dodik is doing, to get up, and really tell us if they're aware of what they're bringing the country into, are they really aware of what we're all in the situation and what they're willing to support. If they are valued with something, because I heard from my colleague Magazinović, then they will do everything to make BiH institutions function. They need to tell us if we're being blackmailed, if we don't get into one of these stories today, whether or not the institutions of the BiH state will be blocked. I'm not sure that's the case. And this real truth and those real reasons why we're in this debate today I really expect to hear it today. And what we're going to have to do in the next period, so we're going to have to open a discussion on building common policies, and a common agreement, and joint plans and lead the country on the basis of an internal agreement, and in no way create only constant conflicts and conflicts. I believe it will be people in next year's election... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17444	The chairman, dear colleague Denis Bećirović, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17445	I think when MPs discuss in Parliament, it would be good for them to believe in what they say first and then someone else to believe what they're saying. And my colleague Šepiću, when you try to blur the eyes of the public, try to hear in one ear what Živković is saying in some demagogue way, and on the other, not to hear what the people of the SDS are saying, I say this objectively to you – listen carefully to what the people of SNSD say to you and what the people of the SDS are saying to you. The SNSD people tell you, which I disagree with, that a little BiH, it should be more so that it can realise its goals on its Euro-Atlantic path, but parallel to the SNSD people here tell you public people from the SDS that they formed the Republika Srpska, that they are the creators of Republika Srpska, etc., these are their statements. Listen to both statements, try to learn a lesson from all of this, not to spread demagogue here in an appropriate way that will be acceptable only to someone or to one part of the audience in this country. When you speak, too, who is causing this crisis, so who is stopping you from managing the government of the Sarajevo Canton without a crisis. Is there anyone who defends that? There isn't. Does anyone forbid you from making a crisis in the Federation? Well, that's what you do, isn't it? Why is the BiH Presidency, where the SDA has a presidency member and the SDP is gone, why is there no better situation than it is in some other bodies? Let's try one objective way of saying it without opening some things and not trying to channel people, to hear one part of the story without hearing another part of the story. Here they speak very clearly both, and from that they should learn a lesson rather than try politically here and score cheaply. 29 Replica, MP Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17446	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I believe what I'm saying, and I'm saying there's no honesty here, and there's very little in BiH. He was the only honest Mr. Bosić, and I'm sorry he wasn't there when he finally said what the real reason was, so he should have apologized for saying he was guilty, I don't know, of the agreement between Čović and Dodik. The easiest thing to do is accuse the other. But here, since he said it was true, then I think it was correct that he took that word back. Everyone here is calling for BiH, and if we're going to tell the truth, there's very little of it here. The main problem is that this country is divided into two entities, and here it is literally formally referred to BiH. In one entity, there is a largely one nation, in the other, and there is now a dispute and a conflict that will get sympathy for the entity being a bus driver named that entity. The fact that there is no difference within the entity when it comes to some... national issues of theirs we will see it at one of the next points, let's say this question that has been asked about Konjević Polje, we will see that then all of the RS are unique, or let's say when trying to solve the issue of the Electoral Law, that is how someone called it through the Bosniak issue, this, when one party is agreed in the Federation, and then whether another option of the two strongest political options finds ways to disprove and then we see that they are very unique when one of the very important issues is to be resolved. And for us, the most important issue is resolving the institutional equality of the Croatian people in BiH, and when this is resolved, we will come to a healthy basis so that we can further address all these issues. We do not vote today, I personally do not vote on Mr Šarović, whom I highly appreciate and all of his colleagues, we today, if we define ourselves, must define ourselves as one who will support the institutional equality of the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17447	Second replica, Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17448	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm here, there are stenograms, and not what I'm going to say right now to record the camera, I'm against saying, I'm against transmission because this is not supposed to interest anyone, but here I've said a dozen times and I've begged my colleagues from the SDS not to mention the party, I'm just mentioning that they are members of that party, I've never said anything ugly about any party, any individual, about any people, I'm not doing it, but all you have problems with SDS solve that in RS with SNSD. You have your MPs there and do not transfer all the misunderstandings, because you are making chaos in the RS in Parliament and then you want to transfer that atmosphere to BiH level. Furthermore, I've never been involved in demagogy in my life and I'm not the convert you said I've had such a role with circumstances to be a participant of various events, pre-war events in this room, in the lower floor room. After a gogoth as a man in the second position at Parliament of 30 RS, at the museum of the first session of members of the Bureau, because this building was not in office, etc., and came to the MPs in the second term. It's not true that we from SNSD, my colleague Bursać and I, voted in favour of tariffs. And why didn't we vote? Because the Customs Tariffs Act did not support our colleagues from the SDA either, because I was then the chairman of the parliamentary committee and for two years no one was interested in the law or the bill coming to the agenda, the first commission, did not support colleagues from the Croatian parties either. How suddenly that law is now crucial and the first to appear is the law of the competent ministry and the minister in Parliament, and now it is allegedly the main reason for the conflict and some dissension with the SDS. Gentlemen, SNSD has been here for seven years and SNSD has never worked against BiH, but has only protected the Constitution. And when I say that we have not transferred any jurisdiction of Republika Srpska to the level of BiH, I repeat that you understand well, it does not mean that we are against BiH, but we have protected the Constitution, and the Constitution clearly states what the position of the RS is in that Constitution. And what you honor us now is that we're some coalition partners of anyone. There is no coalition here, there are partner relations from the necessity of functioning BiH. We want it to work but in full capacity to recognise the existence of Republika Srpska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17449	We've got a few reported replicas. I would pray that in replicas we concentrate on what is the correcting of the false quote. Replication was first reported by MP Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17450	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had to pay attention to the beginning for a little while. I appealed to reason, unfortunately I understand, like you, if you'd like to admit, that he was very little in all of this today. Raising this much tension from each of us who reported for the discussion today is not good and will not lead to the right solution. After all, since this is supposed to be a replica, I will use the right of the oldest MP to introduce you to an ancient wisdom and please at least try to act on it. It is said: My Bog give me courage to accept things that I cannot change, my Bog give me determination to change what I can change, and my Bog give me wisdom to distinguish first from second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17451	Ambassador Atno Domazet, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17452	Well, here I am directly encouraged to take the floor by the remarks made by Mr. Šepić asking the SDP to declare in which we are being blackmailed by the SNSD. However, before answering that question, I would like to make one of my thoughts known, that those who are the greatest virtuoses in this trade are speaking here about politics and trade in politics as an evil one. This is about as if managers who were market economy masters were complaining about the market economy. So 31 really do not make any sense and are simply turning away from that fundamental problem, which is the problem by, on the fundamental principles of the SDP, the problem of reintegration of BiH and strengthening its ability to ensure its socio-economic development and integration into Euro-Atlantic integration. We, I would like to point out, accept the constitutional structure of BiH, the position of entities, the position of the state and advocate a modern decentralised European state. Therefore, neither the negation nor the glorification of entities, so something that is needed to be brought, comes up with optimal solutions taking care of citizens' interests. The SDA pointed out that it takes care of the protection of both the state and the state, etc. I can only say that the SDA is really ready to protect the state even through the back of the citizens. We adopt the Law on a unique home number, solve the problem that our citizens highlight, and then declare a breach of vital national interest and seek that protection. We're not for that kind of state-building. Finally, I would like to say that we will show responsibility in the vote, responsibility for the moment that BiH is in, and that is to prevent the crisis, because we have not come into crisis, we have,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17453	Time's up for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17454	We have low efficiency, but the key thing is that we want to preserve the integrity of the institutions and preserve the process, the reform process, the process of changes that have started for which we are not satisfied but we believe that what is the real issue for BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17455	The correction of the quote, which is incorrectly cited and which could be the cause of the misunderstanding, also has MP Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17456	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. First of all, I was counting on this order to refrain, not to replicate, but what I would like to point out is that this is of great importance exactly what the media today have the opportunity and the people to follow what is happening in this House. Because in every example, regardless of what individual colleagues and colleagues went outside, I believe that their conversation could conclude in which direction the party pleads on today's agenda and shift with regard to Minister Šarović. What I can personally say is that I am pleased that I am also the initiator of this media monitoring, because... if the people had the opportunity in BiH to hear what anyone is saying in the past two and a half years, what anyone is proposing, what anyone is initiating, it would certainly be much clearer, but this today points especially...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17457	But my colleague, Jagodiću, no one was against the transmission today. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17458	I agree, I agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17459	Who are you replicating to?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17460	However, it is you who I wish for.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17461	Was I against it?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17462	Yes, I want to replicate to you because I've been waiting for order, I definitely can't...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17463	You have to wait for order, what's the dispute?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17464	Please, listen, the situation is definitely about Minister Šarović, and I also don't want to talk about the name and last name, but what I can say is that, following the work of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, it has indeed been done so much in the past. When it comes to the "hygiene package" I know how much work has been done there. I think that there are definitely problems in the executive government, i.e. in the practically parliamentary majority between SNSD and SDP at the federal level. As far as the SNSD itself is concerned, the situation is catastrophic, they are certainly looking for different shifts every three months thinking that there will be a solution, but apparently from the move to move, practically SNSD makes catastrophic mistakes, which I am truly sorry, it reflects on the whole country. But also, the SDP cannot be praised by some, practically concrete moves, because only the fact that we have over 1,700,000 marks from various international institutions of undrawn resources that we do not use at this time when people are practically unemployed in both entities, when they expect solutions. At a time like this, if we move towards shifts, this only gives me instructions that practically the parliamentary majority, primarily SNSD and SDP, want to go in the direction of postponing elections, so probably during the next two, three years they expect to improve their rating. I believe that today we must take account and practically everyone thinks and imagine in what direction we are voting today when it comes to the SDS Minister's shift. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17465	Okay, it was a replica. New replica, Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17466	Here, let me welcome you all. 33 I will try to be, actually give my answer to Mr. Magazinović, Mr. Jovičić, Mr. Živković and Mr. Kalabić. Of course I'm going to take discussions on this agenda point, and as far as the replica is concerned, I'm going to try to be different from them. - Ambassador Babalj, shut up. [[Common discussion]] I'd like you to warn your colleagues not to comment, not to bother me at the concentration.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17468	I've seen a lot of things in this chair, but there's always new surprises. But I'd like some attention from my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17469	Now you can imagine what it's like for me to listen to the nebulis and the nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17470	The word is from Ambassador Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17471	All right, I'm asking you, chair, to create conditions that we who have been waiting for the discussion start with our discussion for a long time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17472	I agree with you, and that's why I'm warning the U.S. MPs to create conditions that you can speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17473	I must, I must admit that as the discussion and the time of the discussion of certain members, my colleagues were moving to have some things repeated, so I will try to be a little shorter, and a few of my colleagues Babalja inspired me to do so, so maybe I can say something new in Parliament, although a lot has been said today. First, here's two and a half hours we're already in the debate and I'm glad the chairman of the Council of Ministers is here to listen to the debate. The fact that in most of the debate, he was absent, but I think this is most of his concern. He is the person leading the Council of Ministers, he is the prime minister of the government of the country and he needs to hear today what MPs are thinking about the move made by the Council of Ministers at a session on 23.10.2013. And here we have received on the table all reports saying that at the 66th session, held on 23.10, most votes with 3 votes against a supported initiative for the need for reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, etc. 34 I have to make one parallel. The chairman of the Council of Ministers was very correct and gave my question the answer, so he came out immediately because I asked – is he satisfied with the work of ministers from the SDA? There were then words about Ministers Muhamed Ibrahimović and Sadik Ahmetović. So I would like the chairman of the Council of Ministers to tell us to meet this Parliament which the three ministers did not support Mr Šarović's shift? Did Mr. Šarović and others who change do their job in accordance with the laws, did they have initiatives, did they work well, did they do bad things, why? Yesterday we had a session where MPs asked, I asked the chairman of the Council of Ministers a question – What is positive in the work of the Council of Ministers in office since he was and what is negative? I must say that in all the media this answer is well said under a), positive what has been done here. And I must admit that at one point while Minister Šarović answered the question -- that perhaps another time he will answer some questions together. I, yesterday, saw, knew that the trade minister's shift was coming up, and then I thought that it had given up the shift, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers was as an authority, that he could tell the leaders – stop, this is a team that I can do business with, that European integration is going through its course, that we have fiscal stability and that we have a number of good things, because bad things haven't been talked about. It wasn't said how live citizens in BiH, it wasn't said where we got it and a number of other things. That is why I would really like for the further course of the discussion and I call upon the chairman of the Council of Ministers and ask him to come out and state the reasons for the change of ministers and others today. To state the reasons and tell us which members of the Council of Ministers did not vote for the shift. My discussion does not go in the sense that I am defending the minister because he is from the SDS, I want BiH to have a stable government for the last year before the elections, I want this government, this Council of Ministers to finally take steps for all BiH citizens. Will these steps be positive if the shifted minister who, I don't know how he worked, we'll hear it now, the chairman of the Council of Ministers will explain it to us. Since I suppose it means I have no right, but I suppose all of our moves are being drawn by the leaders and today there have been various assessments that the leaders are guilty of. I, as an MP, sometimes think that we should think carefully and carefully about going to a constitutional change and establishing a council of leaders in this House and making there exactly who is the leader, who is not, and that we know who is responsible in this country, to say that is you, when they agree, that is what the Council of Ministers and Parliament needs to propose. So they're some X, I'm not calling any. My further discussion, because I won't have any more time, but it will be a replica, depending on your answer, Mr. Chairman. I believe this is the second reconstruction, that you are also responsible and that after such moves you should resign and that we should choose a new Council of Ministers, an expert council of ministers or some Council of Ministers where some of these good ministers will enter and that this Council of Ministers pulls the country forward. I ask you to be responsible for this country and for these MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17474	I remind once again as Chairman of the House that I will give anyone who applies in accordance with the Rules of Procedure the opportunity to address himself in the business time provided. Replica, there's Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17475	Thank you. At the beginning of this replica, I call on the chairman of the Council of Ministers not to address this topic, this is not the initiative of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Don't make it, don't act naive, so you're like you've all fallen off Mars here. How has the Council of Ministers been established? You, Mr. Avdić, were involved in the establishment of this Council of Ministers. How was it built? Has the President of the Council of Ministers opened a tender and chosen who is in his favor, and who is not answering him, chosen the experts in the contest he has spent or delivered to him – take it or leave it? And now he's in a situation, and this isn't a debate not to play some big demagogy here, this isn't a debate about Mr. Šarović, this is a debate about the relationship between SNSD and SDS. Our commitment is to determine whether the parliamentary majority should remain SDS or SNSD, nothing more. We can bid which minister is good, which is bad, under these conditions is not correct, it's not correct, I answered it, I call here the chairman of the Council of Ministers to tell him what he thinks. Come on, please, come on, please, so the Council of Ministers has delivered clearly what he thinks, the Council of Ministers in a qualified majority, point, probably taking care to ensure the continued functioning of the institutions. So, this one, and nothing's new than it was yesterday and nothing's different than yesterday. This much lamentation, this much, I don't know how different it used to be. When? Never. We have always received mandates from political parties that make up the parliamentary majority, the names and last names of future ministers. And the prime minister was just formally transferring it, and we all know that. I was doing it as Federation President, Mr. Bevanda was doing it as chairman of the Council of Ministers, maybe he would have chosen differently, but he didn't choose and he doesn't choose between individuals now either. But we all know that it is, but there would be a burden of full responsibility, a complete problem being put back on the head of the Council of Ministers. A little tomorrow. The second question is, do you think it's pleasant to take office with a year of delay? Why were we late? Why did Mr. Bevanda take office only after years of election? Don't come back, we can go back to that. You are referring to the Constitution and the law, so let's respect it a little bit in the Federation, the sparrows know that you have formed power in the Federation unconstitutionally, the sparrows know that. But there as a Constitution doesn't have to be.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17476	Replication timed out.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17477	And, uh, I'd like you to establish your principles a little bit, in accordance with the principles of your conduct.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17478	Replica has MP Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17479	Mr. Chairman. I highly appreciate my colleague Lozančić and understand his replica and understand his need to defend, the need to defend the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I, too, am the chairman of the Council of Ministers and I appreciate it, but it is incomprehensible that Parliament is holding a debate on the replacement of ministers and two 36 prime ministers, and already who is listed without the chairman of the Council of Ministers saying two sentences. We got in writing, I want to know as an MP, I have the right, which the members of the Council of Ministers did not vote for such... We all know what practices are like in Bosnia, and I haven't been back in my discussion in practice at all. Finally, a stable parliamentary majority took over to bear the burden of BiH towards European integration and all other reforms was established. So, I am, and it is my opinion that, after the second reconstruction, that even the chairman of the Council of Ministers is losing his legitimacy and that he should also be pictured as a moral man, and he is, resigning to go looking for some new solution, the new chairman and new Council of Ministers of Professional, Better, with fewer political matches. So that's my opinion and I'm behind it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17480	Replica of the emissary Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17481	Thank you, Your Honor. I have to replicate my colleague Lozančić. I will not repeat what my esteemed colleague Džaferović was saying, who is not here right now, but Article 15. The Council of Ministers' Law says -- the chairman of the Council of Ministers can initiate a procedure for the replacement of ministers and deputy ministers. If the Parliamentary Assembly adopts a decision to confirm the replacement of a minister or deputy minister chairing the Council of Ministers, it shall, in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 10 of this Act, appoint a new minister, i.e. a deputy. So, I guess when the SNSD sent this initiative and it was addressed to the Council of Ministers, they expected the chairman of the Council of Ministers to act in accordance with the law, as he did in case he received a letter from the SDP leader in case of a change of ministers. What did we get instead of an initiative, a statement from the chairman of the Council of Ministers? We have received a report on the initiative on the need for reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, not the chairman. Mr. Bevanda, this is not an initiative for the shift of Mirko Šarović. You're the only one who's running an initiative to replace a minister or a deputy. What other ministers in the Council of Ministers think is absolutely irrelevant. And we expect such a document. I understand what your colleagues, colleague Lozančić said – the chairman did not choose the composition, that you found hot potatoes in your hands, but if you can't make peace with it is honorable and to resign, so that we can choose a new Council of Ministers. If you do, and it is legitimate that you do not have the right to change the parliamentary majority because the presidency, based on a certain parliamentary majority, gives the presidency a mandate, and in this case we know clearly that you cannot resign here, because the presidency would not give a mandate, as it has already given, BiH. But I ask you, you tell us, make us a memo here – based on Parliament's request, I, Vjekoslav Bevanda, chairing the Council of Ministers, are launching an initiative for the shift of Mirko Šarović and nothing is disputed. Otherwise, the only thing this Parliament can do today under the law is to adopt the conclusion that we are asking the Council of Ministers to plead or to tell us that this initiative will not be declared. Everything else is a violation of the law that will eventually get a court epilogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17482	Replica, Mato Franjičević. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17483	Although, in part, I agree with my colleague Dzaferovic that the procedures involved, which regulate what we are dealing with now, both in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and in the Council of Ministers, are therefore not fully clear. I think there are several things in this case that are undeniable. First, that the SNSD MPs' club had sent its initiative to replace one of the ministers in the Council of Ministers and two deputies to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, not the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Then some other procedural obligations that simply aren't the nature you'd like them to be. The second thing, if you want to construct the need for this problem, which is what it is, to move to a higher level so that it can discuss the mistrust of the Council of Ministers, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers in general, no one forbids you to, just as the Club of Representatives of the SNSD did and launched this initiative, you start your initiative which may well end positively negatively, but procedurally there are no obstacles and there is a clear procedure. And go ahead. That's enough, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17484	Replica, MP Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17485	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, it seems amazing in this House that people, MPs, actually read certain members of the Rules of Procedure as they do now at this point. And to be asked whether in such a large amount of impeccableness everyone listens to what they say today in this House and in this House. Here he tries to impute the Council of Ministers chairman that he is now guilty here in the procedure, although I think the procedure is quite fine and that it is in accordance with both the Rules of Procedure and the Law and that these ministers, all and one, and ministers and deputies, have not come for public competition but are the product of a political agreement between the parties. And you from the SDS are now having problems with it as if you weren't involved in a situation that wasn't long ago when the SDA ministers were changed to get SBB into power and you didn't then read the Rules of Procedure, nor the Law, anything, but you were informed that the SDP President, Mr Zlatko Lagumdžija, read the SDP, submitted an initiative to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and asked to do what was done. And you didn't have a problem with that because you were in that story and you don't care if nobody touches you, and the rest of you do what they want and how they know. And on the other hand, the SDA. You're having a problem with the procedure today and the way this situation happened and how she's gonna... The final decision is this House's decision. Even if the Council of Ministers had not met and had not given any opinion to the House today, it would have been debated and made known about this and his decision when it fell is the point. I guess that's clear to everyone now. But even in the last term, I think it was 2009, when you wanted to change this Mr. Tarik Sadović to bring Sadik Ahmetović to the post of Minister of Security, none of this is a problem today. 38 It is obvious here, now this is for you both SDA and SDS that according to that old saying, which is obviously worth "old love of oblivion" between you and SDS. But believe and be assured that in 2014 SNSD will do everything, and will succeed in making you... Federation parties and after 2014 you have SNSD as a partner from RS. That's what you're convinced of.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17486	Replica, MP Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17487	I'm shocked that some colleagues here do not know that this House must respect the laws. Above each Rules of Procedure is the law. The law makes it clear – an initiative to replace ministers or deputies is launched by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. In the case, we all remember the shift of Minister Ahmetović and Ibrahimović, that's what he called himself, the initiative is, based on the letter here, we got the initiative of the chairman Bevanda who said - I am starting, I remember it well, I am starting an initiative to replace these and these ministers, based on the demands of SDP leader Zlatko Lagumdžija. It is not disputed, all we ask is that the law is respected, that Mr Bevanda delivers and tells us – I launch an initiative for the shift of Mirko Šarović. We are at all, very comfortable, believe me, eight months away from the election. Here you will have SDS and our coalition partners from RS, PDP and NDP, we will have 10 to 11 MPs, and we will take great care of how anyone behaves today, not because we are remandists, but because today we see who wants and produces crises in this country, and who wants to work and solve citizens' problems in this country. So much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17488	MP Šemsudin Mehmedović applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17489	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests. I am not going to talk about the procedure today, my colleague Šefik has detailed and precisely clarified the procedure in such cases, but I would just like to remind you that this parliamentary majority has experience in the procedure when it comes to the replacements of ministers and deputy ministers. And I'm surprised that this possibility isn't used today, unless they have other intentions. Someone has already spoken very honestly here, it seems to me that Saša was talking about the political conflict of two political options and that one or the other should be determined. I don't think there should be any need for commitment, but to think rationally and soberly about what brings good in the state of BiH one variant and what else. But fellow Živković, quite frankly today, in his replica, said and explained what, in fact, are the political reasons for Mr. Šarović's shift, that is, here's this whole public play today, which is unfortunately transmitted directly through TV BiH. I would say that the right of every political party or here is a group of political parties to form a parliamentary majority. And nothing is disputed except that some political conflict is trying to come out at BiH level and politically score, here is to create another political conflict between certain political entities that have representatives at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I think that we from the SDA Club do not want to participate and we do not want to, in particular, participate in any created conflict of political factors at BiH level. 39 Today I would say that all this play can be called one name in line with that old proverb of “sail and games”. The games in this country of BiH, and especially in this Parliament and at the level of BiH, there is much we, in particular, seem to be entertaining the people with our views and our discussions. But it seems to me that we haven't done enough to provide bread to that people, because it is obvious that in these reasons for the shift, both Šarović and others, there are reasons which have fundamentally and economic basis. Why am I saying this? I remember in the past term we changed the foreign trade and economic relations minister, Mr. Puhalac, we all forgot that, so Mr. Zirojević came. That was one positive shift, regardless of what the SNSD came from. Today we have a situation that this ministry has made a huge step, a huge step towards protecting domestic production, when it comes to creating an environment for BiH's privatisation. Is that why today was on the agenda of Mr. Šarović's shift initiative? If that's the reason, then it fits into this replica of Mr. Živković I was just talking about. It seems to me that Bosić was talking about Mr. Bevanda's moral code. I think Bevanda is a very moral man, but it seems to me that it is a lack of courage to make a decision about Mr. Šarović's shift and to shorten this whole play, that is to say today we are not stalling with these strong debates and replicas. Why do I say lack of courage? Well, if he had the courage to make a decision on the replacement of Muhamed Ibrahimović, Sadik Ahmetović and the other deputies could have taken a comfortable day today, or yesterday to free us from all these discussions, he could have made a decision on both Šarović and the other deputy ministers. So I think there's actually one perfidious game here, trying to hide everything behind something. That is why I say the SDA Club does not want to participate and commit itself to one or the other side, but rather wants to free BiH from new political earthquakes, from new political conflicts, from destabilising opportunities in BiH, because it is a very negative impulse for foreign investors, because it is the creation of a very bad image of BiH in international relations. That's why the SDA Club will certainly define itself today in front of, here are these opportunities that I've been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17490	Thank you. Ambassador Salko Sokolović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17491	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all those present and welcome the BiH Television viewers. And here's a few words, though a lot's been said. My first review would be the report on the initiative on the need to reconstruct the Council of Ministers. I just want to say that my understanding of the concept of reconstruction implies changing the ministers of the ruling political party, so one is not satisfied, we appoint another. Yet we are working here today or we should do another job, so we are in fact changing relations within the parliamentary majority. One political party will no longer be part of this parliamentary majority, and on this side, it would be correct for me to appreciate this debate today on this agenda point. 40 Furthermore, here is often mentioned the question of the relationship between SDA, SDS, etc. So the SDA has no need, and I stress once again, that it defends neither SDS nor SDS personnel, especially by returning in May 2012, when SDS MPs, without any thought, raised their hands and replaced the SDA personnel. What particularly inspires us here is to talk about this topic today, is that we believe that a year before the election we should not deal with the cross-over of government, not only at the Council of Ministers, but at any level of government in the state of BiH. So neither in entities nor in cantons, so here's what I'm gonna say in municipalities. Furthermore, the essential thing that the SDA has defined for this position is that we do not want further destabilising the BiH state for creation, here is what Šemsudin just said, an unstable political environment. Here, we'll be back in May 2012 when SDA personnel were removed. We may have forgotten the reasons that were then presented and the SDA has since been no longer in the Council of Ministers, it is in the impeachmentary action. But whether the new ministers or the new political structure that entered then, the SBB, improved the state of function of the Council of Ministers, improved the situation in the BiH state. So, even then, as today, we had a problem writing inspective military property, nothing in the NATO Debcade has been done times, not to say in the structure of security that may be, a security situation at this point, perhaps worse in BiH than it was in that period. What I'm saying is that these changes won't bring quality. They want to satisfy certain party and personal interests of individuals, but they will not bring quality and want to hinder BiH's progress and towards Euro-Atlantic integration, NATO's path, etc., economic recovery and many other things. Or not to say that here in Parliament we do not need to solve the inter-coalization problems that have arisen in the RS, relations between the SDS and SNSD, etc. Because this situation, meaning this is not a novelty, tells us, leads at one point to a stop to the functioning of the Council of Ministers, new institutions, appointment of new ministers, the achievement of certain positions of new ministers, means it suffers one process that should be carried out through the Council of Ministers to produce quality for the BiH state. These are the meanings, in my opinion, of the essential things that the SDA points to here today, she's pointed to so far. And when we get back to May, here we are back in May 2012. In years, when SDP and SNSD together created a crisis, what did we get as a result? A unstable political situation. A consequence, blocked European road, NATO road, reducing foreign direct investment in BiH. So someone here only mentioned BiH's economy in a few sentences. I would remind us that direct foreign investment in BiH is ten times lower than in 2007. In 2007, 3.5 billion euros were direct foreign investment in BiH, today we have 250 million. _________(?) It's an incorrect quote. tačan quote, Professor, and I'll tell you later when you're replicating me. So we have ten times less foreign direct investment in BiH. And then what do we have? We have this kind of economic situation in BiH. That's what I'm saying, I'm referring to this as an example of these permanent generated crises that happen in the Council of Ministers and then we don't have one continuity in the work of the Council of Ministers. I do not dispute both the need, and the possibility, and the desire of the current coalition partners to eliminate one partner from power, but should always have this fact in mind if we truly say that we are friends of BiH and we want it to have its own progress. 41 We have recently, here we have debated the work, in fact adopted a report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2012. It's just, as I recall, it was the SDA who talked here about some of the bad things the Council of Ministers did. Everyone else praised, including the work of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and Mr. Šarović. We then highlighted the problem, I am saying it, so we are not ready for Croatia's entry into the EU, then we highlighted the problem that we did not have new food laws, new veterinary laws, new laws on agriculture and rural development, etc., which at the moment of Croatia's entry into the EU would include us in the process of further economic relations with Croatia, i.e.... further placement of our agricultural products towards Croatia... Not to say, here's what the European Community is doing to us now, one digression, right, wants us to continue our relations through CEFTA, that's what Minister Šarović on the other side saw. He noticed that he was protecting the interest of the BiH state when it comes to hydropotential. We cannot escape from that fact that the European Economic Community says that renewable energy sources are also worth BiH. Why do we not use our renewable resources, the possibility of hydropotentials through the formation of new renewable energy sources for BiH, and perhaps with some neighbour, through some procedure? So that's not a question for me. Which is why we need to be there in the interest of some Republic of Italy or I don't know what it's called or others, it doesn't matter, Italy can, but procedurally, when it comes to the State, it's known by the Law on concessions who initiates initiatives towards the Commission for concessions, etc. So the identified problem doesn't mean that you need to leave this position now unless someone else had some interest. Here, let the citizens think of that interest, enough of that was through a certain media space. And what really happened to me, I kept running away from this fact, from Mr. Dodik's statement that Mr. Šarović wasn't defending the interests of the RS enough, and what he was talking about earlier, the chairman really brought me into this story that he wasn't defending the interests of the RS enough. Unfortunately, there should be the problem of other coalition partners, notably SDP and SBB, who remain in this parliamentary majority's assembly. But here's a very bad fact for me. Still, what should the government continue to do? Here will be the reconstruction, probably the shift, reconstruction, I again appeal to the new Council of Ministers to continue the construction of this Bosnian-Herzegovina European road that we have stopped, to pass this Law on immovable military property to unblock NATO's path, to strengthen foreign investment. So we work for the benefit of the citizens. If there's anything good after this, then let's make these after the moves, 'cause...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17493	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17494	I apologize, because you have now proven that you can agree on these matters, so you can also agree on these important issues for BiH's European path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17495	I thank my colleague Sokolović. The Republic has an MP, Saša Bursać. Here you go. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17496	Thank you, Chairman. I'm sorry, I'm a little cold. I welcome the esteemed presidency, welcome fellow MPs, all present in the O.R., the people who are watching us. Well, I have to express one concern, I'm worried about Mr. Jagodić. Mr. Jagodić, are you all right? Only you haven't called today from the U.S.A., and I'm worried about you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And yes, he answered, I apologize, I didn't notice your discussion, I'm very sorry. I see you're only standing still, and these others are very active.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17498	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17499	Well, I'm not losing, so don't worry, Mr. Šepić, and that's not your problem. Indeed, the largest minute to spend the SDA today and the SDS minister is being replaced. I think Bog where I am today and gets up first, here's Mr. Šepić, when he calls me here to call him a little bit, creating a crisis in BiH political concern. Mili Bog, the opposition is concerned about the political crisis. It's just that in BiH there's nowhere else. I have written a lot of things here so I have to mention others even though I do not replicate to Mr Sokolović, but Borislav Bojić says the venue is in the National Assembly of the RS. I don't know why, I don't know how. Here we are, Mr. Bojić, let's discuss what's bothering us, don't bother the people down there, there are laws very important for our people in the RS and don't create a crisis of power in the RS as you've already started, which is to tear down the institutions of the RS. Next, Mr. Bašić quotes to Vladik Nikolaj. And it's only in BiH, but I'm listening to his, I'm sorry he's not here, I listen to his every time discussion, and this time he's really surprised me positively, of course, but let's hear it and that's what the Bošnjak quotes to Vladik Minister Nikolaj, it can only be in this House here. Aleksandra Pandurević says so ambitiously, from 10 to 11 MPs. Oh, well done, you're very ambitious.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17500	You'll see.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17501	You'll see, you'll see, you'll see, slowly, you're making an account without a waiter, there's more work to do, it doesn't work like that. Šemsudin Mehmedović, and I wrote it down, says - bread and games, we entertain the people. What do you do in the Federation if we entertain the people here? What's going on out there? You can't make one single decision, you can't solve one single problem, you can't agree on one single thing that, here's the most blocking us on that European road right now. And he says, "The lack of courage is 43 Bevanda to answer." There's no need for Mr. Bevanda to answer. The last time I mentioned him in my discussion, I don't know anymore, and I don't remember what the point was about, I called him for him to pick up, this time I'm asking him not to answer, there's no need. This initiative was launched by the SNSD and we stand firm behind it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17502	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17503	Here's one more thing. And Salko Sokolović – the SDA has no need to defend the SDS even though it seems to have spent all its minutes, you may have a few minutes left, but you will spend it, I have no doubt, and is also concerned about the crisis of BiH authorities. I've definitely pinched myself two or three times to question myself where I am today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17504	Thank you. Replica or incorrect quote, dear colleague Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17505	Dear President, honourable MPs. I would refer to a few comments or a few replicas that have been in the course of today's discussion, the last 10-15 minutes have been shown here and I have expressed some kind of my own and perhaps the party's position in the matter of this complete duress that is happening today in our Parliament. First of all, I think we all know what this is all about and more and more, we all know that this is a problem in the RS, that the problem between the two most potent and the strongest parties in the RS. Some tell me it's a problem in the distribution of positions, authorities in the RS. Of course, I'm taking the right to be wrong because I don't know the whole situation, but the pre-election campaign and everything that's going on these days, the difficult economic situation, logically, is that they're preparing the ground for the elections and what's going to happen after the election. That is why I consider SNSD's reaction as their legitimate right to take certain measures to prevent all these things. Therefore, it is a political struggle in the field of RS, which here is less transmitted to the territory of the Federation or more to the territory of the state where partners in the Federation, which is SDA and SDP, respect each other for certain things that they have agreed very well and qualityly on when it comes to the Federation. I didn't mean to discuss it, and we're going to vote the way we think it's best and how it protects the interests of the SBB. And I have to say, in our political action so far, we've been, I think, quite correct. And as literally the rights of the opposition, I don't think we're any more of a position than the opposition except for one ministerial post we have and which, I think, works well. So what I've just said is that I've replicated to our esteemed Sokolović, who says that change doesn't bring anything. I think the changes are also being made and changes need to be seen within all the global political movements that are happening in the territory of the entire country. I think 44 will happen today, what the political elite have agreed, and calling someone and saying that it's more moral or not brave, is absolutely ridiculous. I think Mr. Bevanda is extremely moral, and he's extremely brave because he's accepted functions and acts like that function where he doesn't control all the ends of that function. It's the same as if I were the director of some hospital, some center, and there's a CEO running to control that hospital's function. So this is where what happens happens. We will, we have assessed within all these games that are happening, react as we will react.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17506	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17507	Here's the moment, but I just want to say one thing that I'm kind of sorry for the players of quality on this team called the Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers, and I'm sorry that we're not just saying today in quality, transparent and open terms of the agreements that they've already made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17508	Thank you. Discussion, distinguished colleague Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17509	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. I would like to stress that the reasons that have been explained by the SNSD Representatives' Club for Trade, and in particular the report that we received this morning from the Council of Ministers, therefore speak exactly how serious they are about doing their job, how serious they think about the citizens of BiH. As Bolitak is well known, he did not support the formation of the Council of Ministers in this way, because we had the suspicion that, when it comes to the Council of Ministers headed by Mr Bevanda, he would not do his job which we obviously have on the scene now. Change ministers, not know who comes to those places, which program and which new solutions to fix the situation, I think it's also unserious. And in particular, there is Mr. Šarović, and I can say that the minister who has made the most of all ministers in the ministry so far. Although I say, it might have been more, and it should have been more, because we know, I've been here a lot of times, we know unresolved problems, yesterday we had this same problem in this House that wasn't resolved thanks to the failure of the Council of Ministers. For that reason, therefore, based on these facts, we don't know what after the shift, especially in this way, so unserious to approach, and I obviously can't support this way that's proposed. Thank you very much. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17510	Thank you. The next entry was made by Honourary Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17511	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, I must first express my gratitude to RTVBiH, who today has shown interest in following this session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or the House of Representatives, where we have been informed and until when they can be here. I know that my colleague Zijad Jagodić had several initiatives and conclusions and that we discussed that otherwise all meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly would be transferred or recorded, so re-enacted, I know that this Parliament had different views on the matter, but here it is good to hear or see the public interested in the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly today, and if they are possibly familiar with this problem. It is good enough that, I say, a wider social community sees what we are doing in Parliament, because otherwise, if they were not likely to have these discussions and discussions would make no sense. As a representative from the opposition HSP party, I feel so much today, I will not say embarrassingly but sadly that today, in this high House, we are discussing a resolution, namely the replacement of the Ministers' Council of Ministers, Mr Mirko Šarović, and from all these discussions so far, as well as reports on the work of the Council of Ministers, and some of the colleagues have said that it is a man, or a minister who is correct, consciously, and can be said and is doing the best work in the BiH Council of Ministers. Then the question is whether it is worth being good, if it is worth being honest, if it is worth doing its job consciously and responsibly, what you are asked to represent the interests of BiH citizens, regardless of which part of BiH they live in, is it RS, Brcko District or is it the Federation of BiH. I know that through this Ministry in recent times, given the specificity of the Republic of Croatia bordering over 1,000 km from BiH and which since 01/07 has become a member of the EU, that a series of regulations should have been passed, a series of legislative solutions, whether, when it comes to economic relations with the European Community, with CEFTA countries, etc., and that Mr Šarović through his ministry has done a large and lionic part of the work with his associates, and that he is one of those who eventually established BiH's relations with EU members in a proper and correct way, when it comes to importing and exporting goods either to BiH or BiH. I haven't heard any of my colleagues say anything, people here have been fenced against him personally, probably not, but from him, so no one said anything that he did wrong, that he did bad work, but even through his work, everyone praised him and that political hypocrisy, and then you raise your hands to replace him. This is what counterpart Kabil mentioned, so political elites are here in BiH or rather the conflicts of political parties in the RS entity's space have culminated so much that one or one of the presidents of the political party, Mr Dodik, has asked for what we are discussing today. But why would I support that? Why would any of us support this by asking one of the presidents of the political party to relieve a man from the Council of Ministers who is doing a great job. Here I am, that's my opinion, and I think this request for failure to meet the programmes and plans, about insufficient representation of the interest of the RS, I think it's there, it doesn't stand. And I think it is even questionable 46 and procedure, here were the words, the procedure for putting on the agenda of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Here, we need to be honest and correct that there are political actors in BiH, and one of them is Milorad Dodik, who probably means he conditioned partners, political partners, based on political trade and threatened to block BiH institutions if today's resolution of Mirko Šarović from the position of Minister of Economic Relations in the BiH Council. To me it is a little bit, looking at today and a little agenda, the material, a large part of the colleagues in Parliament, there has been little retrospective about who is larger Bošnjak, who is a bigger Srbin, and even who is a bigger Hrvat, although not much, but there has been also talk about BiH's European path, there has been also a question of BiH's path and its desire towards membership of the Council of Europe, or the EU, NATO Alliance, etc., although we are aware of one fact that this Council of Ministers with these political parties has been batting in place for the whole term. So we need to explain this to the Croatian public and the entire Bosnian Herzegovina public that we have a pat on the subject. Here we are at the request, and we are talking about these European values, civilization, some of the benefits and courtesy of the EU. Today we will also have the agenda point where counterpart Mate Franjičević submitted an initiative for BiH to adopt one resolution on the condemnation of totalitarian communist regimes and to declare 23rd pillars on the day of memory of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritative regimes. And then I see that the Joint Commission on European Integration has turned down one such initiative. It says how ready BiH is to become a member of the EU, although here in this initiative it is very clear that all resolutions and all UN declarations, including the Council of Europe, have been made a member of BiH. Here's how much we think and how honest we are about this European road to BiH. Therefore, I, as a representative in the BiH Parliament, cannot support the means of resolution and all these reasons that people have cited here, because no one has said a single reasoned reason why. Legally, it is the right of the SNSD and the Club of Representatives of the SNSD to submit such an initiative, but I have not heard from any of these other colleagues that he expressed dissatisfaction when it comes to work, work above all. So, I don't mean the political party that someone here wants to get close to one or cooperate with another party, but work means minister in the Council of Ministers. I even think it's quite the opposite, which can be argued through the fulfillment of both the programs and the plans that have been fulfilled by this Ministry. And I think that's how we should have... all because BiH has a much bigger problem than ministers' and deputy ministers' shifts, but we need to do the job, and we heard a series of investment arguments here in BiH, about BiH's progress towards a European path, etc., not to say, implementing the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci verdict, when it comes to the process of this, coordination. These are all the conditions set before us by the EU, and this Parliament does not have the opportunity to declare this, as leaders must first declare this, the number of leaders is reduced to 1, 2 or 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17512	Replica, MP Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17513	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. My replica refers to Mr. Jurišić's exposure. Very often, you mentioned the president of the SNSD several times in your discussion. We decide here today in this House. 47 Thank you for mentioning him, for this is what raises both the party and it itself. I remember you as the leader until recently being a political party, but you didn't have enough votes to be able to, or a sufficient number of MPs so that you could have something more important here to influence the creation and decision-making. As an opposition MP, it is perfectly allowed that you can always make your proposals and suggestions to go out, but the vote will be the way most people decide. And I don't see any reason why I'm so sorry about the individuals when they get here, in this country, the biggest problem is when there's a man's shift. There are no other people in the country who can also successfully perform these functions. It is a matter of policy and agreement, and here is the next opportunity when elections are held, as it announces an extremely significant number of new mandates, i.e. winning new mandates by political parties, and it is an opportunity for you to stand up to members of the HDZ and others, to impose yourself with your party, your politics and your personality and to get a larger number of MPs. Then your influence will certainly be greater and more significant, and now you can make specific suggestions and suggestions from that position. And thanks again for mentioning Mr. Dodik because that's all you're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17514	Replica, MP Darko Babalj, second. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17515	...talk. Well, that's the problem, Mr. Tomić. The problem is the quality of running any in BiH. According to the information that we have, and we know it won't be as fast as you thought, Mr. Šarović's place is to sit down with this man who was removed 4-5 months ago, former Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr. Džombić behind whom other affairs are left that you can see in the media every day, as I write so printed and all the others and electronically. That's our problem. We are aware of the situation in which we are today and do not dispute the election result that you had in 2010, which you are constantly calling on, yes, it is, but we also do not point out those we had in 2012. We are merely warning you that it is not good what you are doing today, that you have no valid argument of what you are doing and that we warn you and our colleagues in this House, how we sow all together so we will reap tomorrow. The situation in BiH will change, of course by legal and legitimate means in 2014, as you do, and we all know it here. But what we all need is a priority, I think in this country, to change the consciousness of the first responsible people, both in this Parliament and in all levels of government in BiH. That's what we don't have today. We do politics, we make plays, we have actors like you have, and we're ready for these shows, because you're very good actors. But what BiH citizens are interested in today is that you cannot offer them, and that will be shown next year, because as you say you will assume all responsibility for the functioning of BiH and RS. It's hard on us next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17516	My colleague Babalj had a much more concrete second replica than the first one. Replica new, Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17517	Thank you, Chairman. Here, fellow Boško Tomić, respecting him as a longtime representative, a couple of such memories. When he mentioned mine, which he says, a party or party of HSP, HSP along with its coalition partner in the House of Representatives has two meanings for MPs, MPs. Because here in front of me, I've shown this once before, Zvonko Jurišić HDZ-HDZ-1990-HSP-HSP BiH. There are two envoys in the House of the Peoples of BiH. So we have both the result and the legitimacy that we're here. There were a few reminders here of these memories, but here I will return you a little in 1999, when the SNSD took over the leadership of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and it had in the Assembly of the RS, no fewer than two representatives, or two MPs. So I had a chance to hear stories that some were then brought into the nets because they were dropping nets from helicopters to catch them so that it would be a quorum to vote then on the current Prime Minister from your party, with the support of the international community, etc. So, about the forces, about the parties, here we talked about specific cases, I said yours was a perfectly legitimate request. Absolutely legitimate for someone to change. I'm not going to say there's no one who can do a job as well or better, but I think it's a rule, that team, or that man, or that player who does his job responsibly and consciously and well, he doesn't change. In that case, I think Mr Mirko Šarović is like a minister player who should not be changed. I'm saying, it's your legitimate request, but all those others who discussed it don't have to accept what you suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17518	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17519	Šefik, we could shorten the discussion at the beginning of the session, and it doesn't make any sense now in the end. The word has an MP, Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17520	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I'll take a few sentences. So, I will repeat the position that is being punished here, and it primarily refers to the disability of the SNSD initiative, which will leave the long-term consequences of that platform agreed on the political action here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that can otherwise be applied and made various political decisions that have been of interest to both RS and BiH, but particularly to the RS, because the platform has been linked exclusively to us representatives from the RS. For the record, I ask you to take one part of your discussion that simply for the sake of the minutes we have one content relating to the Rules of Procedure. Article 145. – before the start of the session on the vote of non-confidential opinion of the Council of Ministers may bring the House a report in writing with its opinion on opinions. Since he can, so he can, and he doesn't have to, it's not a dispute. The report shall be delivered to the Members no later than 48 hours before the meeting is held. The report came to my desk, but it says the date of 24.10.2013. So, as far as I'm concerned, there are 49 respected procedures in the Rules of Procedure. Maybe I didn't get this the best way, but here I think it is. Also in Article 146, so I ask that this, this will certainly enter the stenogram, so for these reasons, I mention this procedural matter, Article 146 says – each Proposer has the right to explain the proposal for a presentation at the House session. So, SNSD is right, if he doesn't want to, please, and he doesn't have to, it's not controversial. But the Council of Ministers has the right to respond and to state its position after which a general debate is opened. Given that Mr Bevanda's position as chairman of the Council of Ministers and Council of Ministers was missing, there may be a need, given that the debate is under debate Mr Šarović, that possibly if Mr Šarović assesses the need to make a certain kind of comment since there were, therefore, some concrete questions. It is further said in the next article – after the debate on non-confidential or reconstruction, and here is a partial reconstruction, it is put to the vote. This is very important for the record. But let me get to the part I answered. In fact, until now this story has already been present for a month in public and last night we had a very interesting session of the Council of Ministers in which a decision was made in a very interesting way in which the leaders of some political parties voted against the shift of ministers and two deputies. And today, as the representatives of these political parties say, they will be the ones who will vote against what their representatives or leaders voted on at the Council of Ministers. Why am I saying this now? There is a political threat as a means to achieve the goal. So my opinion is that during the night in the late hours of the night there was something very interesting happening at the SNSD and SDP or some other political party, I don't know because I was asleep. And while I was sleeping as many others, there was probably something that announced Mr. Magazinović in his discussion and said that there was a huge political conflict between SNSD and SDS and said he is now approaching the partnership on projects. I think it could easily have happened that it wasn't the arrangements for the lower horizons that moved on to some of the upper horizons. I don't know, I'm just guessing and I'm just estimating that there's a rabbit in that bush. If you are looking for salvation for the Republic of Serbia, gentlemen of the SNSD, be sure you will not find salvation there. As far as the RS Parliament is concerned, yes, I agree and I think that when it comes to political relations between us from the SDS and you from the SNSD, we need to do this knightly in the National Assembly of the RS. And I'm a fan of it. And I feel very sad and ugly about having this kind of debate with you here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. That's what I was thinking, if that's what you mean when it comes to the relationship that we need to discuss in the National Assembly. And as for the destruction of the RS institutions, you will never and will never expect it, least of all from the SDS. I have a few more things to say for the sake of the pure truth, since one of the only arguments heard here from Mr. Živković about the tariff law. Interesting. Since I'm in the middle of these activities, I want the truth to do what you do, and so do I. So, and that part, so the data simply doesn't stand as such. Given the fact that you have views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the Resolute Ministry of Energy, then you have the position of the Ministry of Finance, so you have the position of the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Slovenia, so you have the position of the company "Sanino", so you have a position, neither do I, Network Network Dervent. Or let's say I read to you what the Bema shoe factory says, they write to Mr. Šarović and they say to him this way – Dearly, we want to thank you personally for sending a letter after 8 years of sending an application, an emergency, a request, we managed to solve a big problem and create conditions for the launch of domestic production, but also the retention of our partners who no longer have to go to countries in an environment that offers lower prices when importing goods from the Far East. Although we are dealing with this problem temporarily, I hope that these customs rates will continue to be applied. Considering that 50 of this decision should be given media significance because it is a major step towards improving the conditions of the shoe industry's business. So if you don't, I'll give you this paper. And I think that, when it comes to lawmaking, I have to make the following facts clear to the public, although this is already more of a technical matter than a political one present in the O.R. today, but this bill has been brought into co-operation with EU experts, and you know it very well. It was also published on the site of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the opinion of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, which I spoke about earlier. You also have the requested and delivered opinion of the Directorate for European Integration and the Directorate for Direct Taxation. You have an opinion on the draft law when it comes to employers. You also have, when it comes to the draft law delivered to the Council of Ministers on 25.11. exactly, for the date I should link it to the exact day when it happened, then the Law was laid down as a proposal at the 169th session held on 21.12.2011, Mr. Živković unanimously. There are ministers who are members of the SNSD. Also the draft law delivered in parliamentary procedure on 30.12.2011. At its 16th session, in particular 31.01.2012, the Constitutional Commission established this proposal, which is in line with the Constitution. At the 16th session of the House of People's Constitutional Law, 31.01., the Constitutional Commission also found that the bill was in line with the constitution. The Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, where I chaired and know this with certainty, but nevertheless, at the 12th session held on 17 April, unanimously adopted the principles of the proposed law without any objection, is doing the right thing. The Committee for Foreign Trade, Politics and Customs is also at the 12th session where you also have representatives, unanimously supported the principles of the law in question on 14th. In the end, only the Council of Ministers, which held the session on 10.05.2012, unanimously established amendments to the proposal for this law that we adopted here. So there's no point in really respecting the SDS and Mr. Šarović, who was extremely zealous in doing his job, on the platform we signed together. For these reasons, there was a need for me to read you a diagram of these events among other things. And I do not owe it, to finally take the opportunity, since it is quite clear here that the epilogue of this debate will be Mr Mirko Šarović's shift, Mirko Okolić and Mrs Radmila Mitrović, I also, first of all, as a man and as a member of the party and as an MP, want to thank these people who have invested enormous energy among other things and showed that it can be done much more than the predecessors who were in the position they were in. Next, I am very grateful to Mr. Šarović, who is his own, not only political experience, but I must say that there were many skeptics who thought that he as an operative at the ministry wouldn't be able to answer that position because he was a man who exclusively dealt with political issues. To the astonishment of all Mr. Šarović was very zealous and valuable in doing his work, the materials were, rest assured, read unlike many of us who are sitting here who do not read or explain, let alone the materials, and came safely prepared at a meeting of the Council of Ministers, unlike some of his colleagues who have not even read to God's materials. That is why I am grateful to Mr Šarović for accepting, at the request of our party, to be a minister and to show how responsible affairs of interest are done, above all for the RS and of course for the joint institutions. And one more thank-you to the deputy ministers. Thank you very much. 51 __________(?) Chairman, break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17521	How much do you want to take a break? _________(?) Half an hour. So, at the request of the SDS Club, a 30-minute break. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17524	... Infringements and violence against the law and the Constitution, and I must say, by the end of this call the SDS will use these methods of work. [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17525	Deputy Chairman Milorad Živković applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17526	Thank you. I simply can't believe, here as far as I've heard about all this time of discussion since this morning only the SDS have threatened to listen to what others in the RS say and according to how they behave they will in the future work, etc., etc. But it was also an obvious flaw in the SDS from the beginning to the end to threaten, to bring back those old ways he's done so far, and that's why the people drove off into opposition. At the same time, I couldn't believe that people... today change the words that everything in SNSD is wrong, but there's a president of the Republic that would be good if it wasn't for a party personality you know. We from SNSD had Mr Kuzmanović, if anyone was not a party figure, he was not a party figure and was acceptable to the practical majority of RS, and on the other hand they had a party personality of Mr Čavić and only because he did not respect SDS's policy had him kicked out of the SDS. So obviously, the SDS doesn't know how to run the country or run politics and can't handle all this. I don't usually speak directly to my colleagues, as you have seen in all my discussions I most often spoke about politics, but Mr. Bojić, I don't know for what reason, has mentioned my name several times. And since that was the case, I'm going to tell you that your notes regarding Law 52 on tariffs were not correct enough, because the report from the Direct Taxation Authority was not positive. On the other hand, no SNSD in this room voted in favour of the law, only 5 SDS and PDP votes. And you could never understand, and it's your fault, that this is teamwork in BiH, that there's both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and one House and the other House, and not that either party is fighting for interest. And you show that, and now with this bill of law which also, when it comes to order, I will explain to you that you did not know that you were defending the interests of the RS, primarily. You were talking about my relationship to the SDS. He is what he is for a number of reasons, because of the relationship of the SDS itself to me, to my family in the city, and to the people that I belong to. If it wasn't for these cameras here at BHT, we might be sending them to Doboj City today, at the same time SDS targets all SNSD personnel in the municipal government. And that's no problem, there's no story of interest, about whether it's professional personnel, but simply the SDS established a policy that SNSD is no longer part of Doboj's government. And there's no problem, that's quite regular, but the problem is when SNSD tells the SDS not to do his job right. As far as the people are concerned, you said the SDS created the RS. And because of your party, I hope it's just your opinion, because the people created the RS, not the SDS. And if the SDS were to be tried and the people of the SDS could not be accused of the people of the RS for nothing, lest tomorrow Bog be accused of them and them, but of individuals or strangers themselves. I believe that you are here in error and that you need to resolve this delusion with yourself first and then with your own party. You've also praised the leader, I mean aside everyone can do it, but when the leader starts to boast, and the one sitting next to you, it's something wrong with either the party or with the leaders, but it doesn't matter. I want to believe that in the last two mandates the SNSD has made another situation here in BiH and this Parliament itself, that we have raised so high a ladder that no one who comes here, and the people has sent you to the opposition, you will remain in opposition for a long time, will not be able to skip that ladder or bring it down, no matter who comes here and I hope that you will support us in all the initiatives and in all the votes in which we will defend RS together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17527	A colleague, Živković, has exhausted both the replicas and the discussion. kolega Bojić, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17528	Well, since fellow Živković no longer has the opportunity to replicate I'll just have a few sentences, so I'll watch this stay. As far as the leader is concerned, I don't think anyone praises him any more than you of the SNSD. So don't worry about it. Mr. Živković, about the law in question, you don't have to explain to me. Explain only to those companies from the RS, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Slovenia who have clearly and unequivocally expressed their views on the law in question that we are talking about. Thus, the Law absolutely did no harm to the economic operators in the RS. You explain this to regional chambers of commerce in RS, explain to the RS Chamber of Commerce. Well, it is not likely that these people do not have enough knowledge of what this law in question is giving them and what it contributes to them in terms of strengthening the position of the RS economy. After all, I know that you have read the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and 53 opinions of the Ministry of Economy. It wasn't me who signed it, but Željko Kovačević and SNSD Minister of Finance Mr. Tegeltija, on an initiative where he spoke entirely of the law in question. And now you're trying to make a story about it, so that law has put the interests of the RS at risk. Just tell me one place where he put the interests of the RS at risk. He's not anywhere, Mr. Živković. All the other political observations you've been talking about, about the way this Parliament works, is a disaster, Mr. Živković, which we've done on a political platform, as an agreement on how to locate joint institutions, is now at stake. Not now, but you have endangered this activity as the destruction of one chance for representatives of RS political parties, who will act in joint institutions in the future, to implement RS policies without harming anyone. So it's a catastrophic SNSD decision. Well, we from the SDS didn't run this initiative, we ran you from the SNSD. And the way we're doing it, that you're assessing whether we did it right or not, let us do it in the SDS, I mean, it doesn't make sense. Next thing you know, as far as the shift goes, don't even think we're being hit by something special that you're about to replace with the SDS. No, I don't. And don't worry about what's going on in Doboj, it won't change political relations, but you'll be safe to be noticed by the people you spoke of in RS. It's not a naive nation, people in the RS know how to make moves. I assure you that the threat, which was present at the Council of Ministers last night, about how the SDP people vote, is not something to be seen. The question arises why they voted against, and who agreed by this morning's SDP's stance to support Mr. Šarović's shift. And why did they vote against that kind of shift in the first place? That's very interesting. That kind of threat, as a means of achieving the goal, is something that is therefore, what I want to draw your attention to, and pay attention to it, and then we'll talk about it later, because I don't have time right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17529	Replica, MP, Saša Bursać.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17530	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17531	You gave up. Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17532	So I just need to say something that shouldn't make some false allegations we have here in mind. I remember very well, I think I was the only one of the MPs who asked not to vote on the principles of this law, for the simple reason that that was the first time we got the Law that had no content, customs tariff, and the first time we had a negative decision of the Board of Directors for indirect taxation. So these were two key reasons why I suggested, since we had an agreement on coalition action, so the SNSD didn't want to fail that game. But then I prayed for at least two conclusions to be adopted, and the first conclusion was that until the next session, until the second reading, the decision of the Management Board of indirect taxation and to prepare the tariff. Bringing the law and not seeing what it says in the tariff, that means taking out 54 wallets and giving it to someone else. Who knows if it was positive or negative? I can't claim either. But not to see the tariff and vote for the tariff law, it was really inappropriate and never seen until then. So maybe people, in the expectation that this would help, say from the Chamber of Commerce, do it. But it's come to grips with all the principles of work until then. So, at least that's when I asked those two conclusions, I didn't get the support for those two conclusions. And if they had been adopted, surely the situation of the adoption of the Customs Tariff Act would have been incomparably better.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17533	The word is from Ambassador Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17534	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I must say that today I feel little and sad and uncomfortable that we have been discussing 4.5 hours of something that represents inter-party accounts, which is the depravation of one and the other parties, and this largest legislative body on the European pathway, on economic development and all other matters does not discuss as much time as these discussions have spent today. I think citizens and those who watch the broadcast must be bitter about our actions today. As far as the agenda is concerned, I just want to point out that the SBB is against the arguments given for Mr. Šarović. I think Mr. Šarović was doing his job properly and consciously, but also that when we look at the minutes from the Council of Ministers, Mr. Šarović voted on all points on the Council of Ministers as well as other RS ministers. So there was absolutely no difference, and I'm saying, the explanation is absolutely unacceptable. It is clear that this is the shooting of the RS coalition between SDS and SNSD, it is clear where this can lead us. We have the same situation in the Federation, where we have the blockade, so to speak, the Federal Parliament or the Federal Government, because in the Federal Government, we do not have a full reflection of what is in the Federal Parliament. We do not share the same power because the SDA and SDP continue to function in the federal government, although the ratio of power in the federal parliament is different. In that sense, I think that everywhere and everywhere there are coalitions that are either on state or federal or cantonal level and that's what we're talking about. Here if there has been a shooting of the coalition part, it must simply be approached by real political assessments and that at a given moment one who has a greater power ratio, or who can contribute more to the work and functioning and the legislative authorities should be supported, not allowed to block at any level. I say again, it is a blockade both at the federal level and the government and in Parliament a vague relationship entirely. The elections are coming in 2014. The party is as strong as it is on the ground and as strong as it has won the mandate. Then we need to approach realisation and new coalitions, see where anyone can, as much as anyone can. But at this point, we must not at any time allow any kind of blockage, or obstruction or impediment to the work of the state parliament to occur. Here I have to refer to just one more statement, which Mr Sokolović said in his part of the discussion, and he says – is anything better in the Ministry of Security and thinks it's even worse. I would like to point out that Mr Sokolović is looking at the Progress Report from 10-15 days ago, where the issue of asylum, human trafficking protection, 55 border management, exchange of police electronic databases has been resolved during this period at the Ministry of Security, that 48% of the number of criminal charges for corruption have been reported. And these masses of the law have stood until now for four or five years in the drawers of the Ministry of Security and not seen the light of day. That so far, since the new security minister has been in office, over 120 counts have been discussed in the Council of Ministers in this area and that surely the co-operation of the Ministry of Security and Entity Ministries is much better, much better. And if the SBB has a security minister, then we need to see that the SDA is also in state-level government because there are 22 officials in the agencies at the state level. And I'm also saying, there's a Federation in the government. This can all be looked at... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What break? You have all this information in the report, Mr. Sarajlić, and you can read everything in this section completely. And for a break you have or before break you had the same that the former or former minister of security drove a daily 195km state car. You had all the data and we have the data, and in no case can you accept any conclusion of Mr. Sokolović. So much, and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17536	I thank Ambassador Mirsad Đugum. The first line was reported by MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17537	You know, I'd like to know the exact quote, so I'm not looking for the wrong quote, I can't handle it, it would be very good for us to finally find out who the opposition is in this House. A maločas hours ago, listening to people's statements, I calculated that over 50% of the members of this House were in opposition, and I was even thinking about starting an initiative to take over power. However, as things go to the end of the session, it looks like we're going back to the two of us. Thank you, let me relax a little.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17538	The word is from the half-sister, Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17539	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, the Honorable Chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. I'll try to get back to the agenda. Today, we have a business legal, political legitimate initiative of one of the largest clubs in this House of Representatives. Each of us can plead to that initiative in a way that he thinks is the mostportunistic, the most correct, the most useful. Here, unfortunately, as usual in this 56 House of Representatives, there was a lot of stories that didn't have a lot of connections, a lot of touch points with the initiative itself. There was talk, there was talk about everything and everything, about some laws that were passed, about someone that wasn't passed. One truth that we can embellish or bend, as much as we want, with today's overall situation in BiH, there is no reason for anyone to be satisfied. And that's the fact that all of our citizens, all of us know, and as much as we're trying here right now to show that others are guilty of that, I think it's hard to go through. I'll remind you of something that I briefly reminded you of, on the occasion of one of your replicas. This assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly, this House of Representatives, this political structure of BiH, counting the presidency as an important segment, has been delayed with the establishment of the executive government for a little over a year. And in that year, where lucky that year was lost to building quality political relations, we made that year just even uglier political relations. Why were we a year late? We were a year late because there was a series, fortunately, of luck, of unsuccessful attempts to completely disregard the electoral will of one of the three constituent nations, in this case of the Croatian people. And for some, it was normal. You remember that we had suggestions here and a statement about some candidates who didn't have support or a few prominences. It is interesting that this happens very often and cyclically in the moments when here, following some unwritten rules, the agreement comes the time for one of the representatives of the Croatian people to be elected in a particular position. And after all that, we've come to the appointment of the Council of Ministers and we're on our way, here in anticipation of better and happier times. Unfortunately, political relations haven't changed at all, they've continued with the same intensity that lasted that year that we've all missed together. And that's why, on several occasions, I have asked all of you here, that it is not correct to overload all this at the door of the Council of Ministers' Presidents who, because of this overall political situation, only has an even more difficult position, an even more difficult role. So, if we had fully arranged political relations, fully arranged international relations, regional, inter-entity, whatever you want, it would be ungrateful in today's conditions to run any government, especially the Council of Ministers in BiH. In a situation where there are a lot of decision-making centres outside both this Parliament and the Council of Ministers, when there are a lot of messy relationships, when there are a lot of unnatural relationships, we expect or some expect miracles. Miracles don't happen or very rarely happen if they happen, especially when it's all done that no wonder happens. We've had until today, maybe even after today, I have to say I don't know how this agenda will end, we've had an unnatural situation. We had a situation that the RS parties, meaning significant two parties, are jointly participating in the government here, so here, thinking about the level of government in BiH, and that they are more than angry political opponents in the same country, only at entity level. Whoever thinks such things can be funky is in one error. It was only a matter of time, a matter of time before this, I must say, unnatural alliance broke. Because it's impossible for you to attack each other on a field called RS today and come here to fraternize for something, etc. That's impossible. On the other hand, we have in the Federation, so you don't think the situation is any better, you have a situation in the Federation, what you... said, well... once again that the government was put in place completely contrary to the Constitution, from parties that are partying as parliamentary majority in the Council of Ministers one part, and from parties that are now like opposition, but in the Federation they agree. I only conclude that they agree when it comes to trampling the electoral will of the Croatian people and not agreeing with anything else. Because I'd like to at least have results, no matter who did that power and no matter what it's made against the Constitution. Unfortunately, it's not. In these and these circumstances, in these and such conditions, we are discussing an initiative, a legal and legitimate initiative of one of the 57 most significant clubs in this assembly of the House of Representatives, and we can define ourselves. The question of every MP, every political party, will apply one of the standards in the morning and others in the afternoon. And what's very important, and that's what I said and I'll do it again, this isn't a debate. This is not a debate, no matter how much some have tried to translate it, not about Mr. Mirko Šarović, whom I, too, greatly appreciate, respect and respect, nor about Mr. Mirko Okolić, nor about Mrs. Mitrović, this is not a debate about you. This is a debate on the SNSD's request that the SDS be no longer part of the Council of Ministers. Point. So we too will commit to whether in the parliamentary majority we want to have a stronger majority or a weaker majority. No, Mr Belkić is right, the way we behave in the adoption of certain laws shows that it is very, very difficult to see which of the clubs are in position and who is in opposition. Because very often we have very strange alliances, and I believe that today we will see them through debate in some other laws, but we will come to that. So I personally don't have a dilemma. So, I don't have a dilemma about how to define myself because I think it's of interest for all of us to try to further deepen the crisis as soon as possible, so that the crisis doesn't escalate, and to create such assumptions that, in these impossible conditions, this Council of Ministers' assembly does as much as possible and better in the interests of all citizens, all entities and all those living in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17540	Thank you. Replica, MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17541	Correction of an incorrect allegation. So, counterpart Lozančić said - the Croatian people's will was not respected, she did not want to respect the Croatian people's will when the government was established at the level of the BiH state. I would say, therefore, BiH's will to form a government at the level of the BiH state was not respected. We can't exactly talk about numbers, because we didn't have a population list, now we're going to have so we can do it another way, and orientationally, as far as I know, there are 8 Hrvat in this House. Three are from the HDZ of BiH. And five of them, therefore, the HDZ headquarters Croatian party is obviously no longer a headquarters, no such support for Hrvat. And in the Federation that an extralegal government was formed by the Federation, so as HDZ insists, the obstruction of elections after the election of delegates to the House of Peoples explicitly exercised HDZ where there is a majority, because he knew he was losing power in the Federation. So, the first to break BiH Election Law, I do not now have an exact member who says that within 30 days in the assembly districts they must elect representatives to the House of Peoples, the same obstruction was done by HDZ BiH. That's it, my colleague Lozančić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17542	National MP Asim Sarajlić applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17543	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Dr. Bećirović. Ladies and gentlemen. 58 So it is good that we are discussing here and it is legitimate that such initiatives come to the tables, so every club, every group of MPs, at least these three years we have seen all kinds of initiatives both for the shift and for the resolution. The break was well used, I found out who these three votes were against at yesterday's Council of Ministers session. So, at the 66th session, held yesterday, most votes supported the SNSD's reconstruction initiative, i.e. the shift of SDS personnel. Three votes against, with Mr. Šarović there voted, so Mr. Radončić and Mr. Hadžić, and as Mr. Lagumdžija put it, he called Mr. Hadžić on the phone, as he said. Today there are representatives of their parties and we will see how they will be manifested. So much for this pragmatic approach to leadership... So, we all remember the October 2010 elections very well, we remember the statements, we remember rhetoric in the media, and of course I can't remember the first meeting of the SDP and SDS leadership to discuss a joint performance in forming power in BiH. So, the first meeting, as I recall, the SDP leadership was with the SDS. I don't know if Mr. Šarović was then, but Bosić certainly did. So, we've had a crisis a year and more, and here's Mr. Niko Lozančić said, we didn't have the Council of Ministers, and of course I don't blame Mr. Bevanda here, nor Mr. Šarović, because we're all in some way hostages to that situation, I would call her a leader situation. And a lot of the things Mr. Lozančić said here, I would agree, but where are we like this Parliament trapped in this circuit, with a chain of circuits, in Dragin's style, with a chain of those shifts? Well, just when the SNSD seemed to me to run Mr. Lagumdžija's shift and it's the only shift we haven't brought to the end here, the rest of us seem to bring it all. First, the U.S.A. came up for a fight and it wasn't a dispute, and it went smoothly, both here and in the House of Peoples. Here's the SDS today, tomorrow maybe Radončić or SBB or HDZ won't know. Here we have electoral winners, Lagumdžija says the other night 17% has authorities, etc., a relative electoral winner. But the fact is that we have two strong Social Democratic parties in two entities that won the elections, the SDP in the Federation and the SNSD in RS. And we're living the biggest crisis, according to me, from Dejton to today. So here's the reduction in this capacity of these people's parties. Someone's gonna say, "Here's the nationalist you want." There's no SDA. There's no SDS. I don't know who tomorrow won't be." There was no HDZ in the Federation, I agree, and you have little responsibility in forming that power, but I'm not even amnesting the SDA here, so you know. So we're all co-responsible. But what else would my good friend say, what's the alternative, what's the solution? Here we have tried everything in BiH, impossible coalitions, so the SDP headed by Labumdžija for the first time since the SDS session has been held to discuss the programme objectives... The SDS that we have here are imputing to us that we have brought chaos and chaos with them in this country. So, here's all we've tried through this Council of Ministers, Lijanović still has none of yours seem to have been through in these three years, but here, there's another 10-11 months, so we'll see, perhaps on the basis of these farm initiatives of yours, maybe someone and yours pass there. So, no gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, no trust here, no trust here. Trust is not being built either by Sadik Ahmetović, Muhamed Ibrahimović, and today Mirko Šarović, trust is not being built on the bars with 6-7 leaders as many as, here are now going to be 5. There's no solution. As long as there is no solution for the parties, we can get some short-term results, the polls will show it anyway, the elections will show it anyway, but there's no way forward for this country. And I remember well, here's this, my otherwise good friend is now a little sick, he's sitting in the House of Peoples, he went to the RS Assembly and when they put a gun in his mouth. You know it well, 59 wasn't a long time ago in '98. A year. And he's got the strength, I say, the only one from this Federation entity line to go there and say that the RS will be as long as it's the express will of the Serb people. And we are the only club to go back there first under SFOR's escort, etc., to hold these famous meetings of the Assembly and of Doboj and where what Dr Jurišić said happened, that they were feeding there with helicopters certain MPs to vote for decisions. And we very easily forget that international factor still present here in the Office of the High Representative of the OHR and which is the supreme interpreter in what we cannot make a decision, and the Supreme Interpreter is here the Constitution and all the laws of this country. So, ladies and gentlemen, we live 18 years after the war. We've had some stages of ups and downs, but I don't think we've ever had a situation like this. So, we had a three-member presidency that didn't want to sit in the presidency building, they were sitting in the museum, at the pubs, now we have 5, 6, 7 leaders who run away from institutions, everyone in institutions, everybody takes money from institutions, whether it's called the institutions of the RS, the state of BiH, but everyone lives in the budget, and no one in the institutions is going to sit down and talk. And that's why we're hostages, it is Bevanda's hostage, we are, and we're all here 42 of us sitting here, living happily, having 5-6 thousand marks a month, and like all of us fighting for the people. I think this farce should finally be interrupted. There is no more time for anything, as the late commentator said. Today we resolve Šarović, it is the end of October, what can the new Council of Ministers do, what can some new candidate who comes from RS defend more RS than Šarović at the state level? I doubt it. I think we all need to find a way together, and here especially these party leaders, here we are, we are the opposition at the state level, but here we have offered solutions and talks to HDZ, we talk to everyone. But please don't amnesty someone of responsibility who sits here, who of this country has very good privileges and always uses them when he can, and this country doesn't take it seriously and doesn't want her well. So here's the initiative for the shift of Lagumdzija, so the initiatives and I've been running for Mr Bećirović's shift, etc., please don't do it anymore, so we don't do any more shifts. Here is Mr Lagumdžija to stay at the Council of Ministers, if I say we will get some solutions on the European path. We, as I said, the SDA Club, without any consultation and with the SDP and the SBB supported the proposal for a law on military property, which all the leaders signed, but here we cannot adopt. As Niko said by the RS parties, despite today's session, they perform very uniquely, although we had promises from one side, that we would have support. So, the SDA will support everything that is on the way of European and NATO prosperity, but I ask you to complete more of these reconstructions and try to do, because the year is much, we all hold back and hope for those elections in 2014, but it is a very long day to lose on this road, and time is really getting smaller, regardless of the EU and the Council of Europe, which send signals. It doesn't work here in the Balkans, it's how drago likes to quote, but the ones we claim to represent, they've tried everything on the political scene, they've supported both the third and the third and the tenth. I don't know what's new, here's except for this BiH presidency member, who's coming forward from the SDP, I don't see any new political forces anymore, except those sitting here today in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17544	Thank you. Replicated chairman Denis Bećirović. Here you go. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17545	A fellow Sarajlić gave a cute speech with only one small mistake, the propleno looks and the topic we are talking about, especially the arguments he used. However, I must first notice one other thing, until now, not to say for decades, in this building in this House we have watched some in the name of Bošnjak replicate Srbin, Srbin to Hrvat, Hrvat to Srbin, etc., today it seems to me that for the first time in 24 years in this building Srbin are replicating Srbin, Hrvat to Croats, Bošnjak to Bošnjak, so we have one true multiethnic environment. My kolega Sarajlić, I must say that you better listen to the tactics of a more experienced colleague, Džaferović, he appeared at the beginning of this debate for two replicas and a discussion and looked back at the legal dimension, did not want to discuss this political dimension, because it is clear that it is too slippery and unprotective, and you have just done so. You have especially surprised me with one of your statements, but you are truly amazed and it exists in the stenogram that you have now stated, which is that you spoke of the political will of the RS entity that, as it is only the political will of the Serbian people. And the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia says it's an entity of both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak, and you forgot to say it. I have to say, today we had a chance to hear a lot of things. You have now tried the last card, which will now fall into your water, to get out of your sleeves, and that is to say that some ministers voted, is it, on the Council of Ministers, that perhaps MPs could work differently. But just to remind you of one fact – you introduced this practice here first with the Budget of BiH, so you yourself, and rather than mention it, started the shift at that time and the deputy chairman of this House, and this initiative was launched by the SDS. But after 10 days, you joined this initiative, and then you said publicly, we will support the initiative, but we cannot support the argument. So you don't need anything weird that we in the SDP absolutely disagree with this argument, but we won't even vote on that argument today, we'll vote on the decision in a way that each of us estimates we should vote. The word is from Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17546	I can't believe there's no replica, so I hesitate. Mr. President, I would briefly, very, as I would say, have made my job as colleague Lozančić very easy for me, so my debate will be shorter than it would otherwise be. I will make some of the key views of us from HDZ concerning these issues, and the problem is that it gets into everything, and then attitudes have to touch some of the wider horizons that make up our political space in BiH and that this country is what it is, whether constitutionally defined or undefined makes it unstable, ill-functioning, etc. No one would be happier if the Council of Ministers could, if it could have been formed in a normal democratic and legitimate manner a month after the last general elections by us from HDZ. And no one would be happier than us from HDZ that the Council of Ministers could have functioned in full capacity without these, as counterpart Šepić said well, without these crises that are permanent and which every few occur and which the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who finally came from the order of the Croatian people, from the HDZ BiH, of course make it difficult to work and make it difficult for the Council of Ministers to work. That is why we are not pleased when it comes to these situations that arise when it comes to the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, because we know that it will slow down his work and that 61 will make this work ineffective. But when that happens, we can't get away from it and try to behave as well as we can in principle. This principled behaviour involves respecting certain tasks that are characteristic of BiH. We think that BiH, as defined in the preamble to the Constitution, must respect double legitimacy in forming authorities at different levels. It must respect national legitimacy, therefore the legitimacy arising from the constituent peoples and must respect the civil legitimacy, therefore the legitimacy resulting from the voices of all the inhabitants of this country. We insisted on that whenever, when we were to form three and a few years ago, the Council of Ministers of the State of BiH and when the government of the Federation was to be formed, etc., etc. And that is what we insisted on, and that is why we are determined to act in this way by respecting this aspect of all the crises that have occurred from time to time and that have sought interventions or reconstructions in the composition and structure of the Council of Ministers. And this time, given that it intervenes in the structure of the Council of Ministers in a way that, as defined by it, the composition, members of the Council of Ministers who should represent the Serbian people, that within this real reconstruction, HDZ, as it was last time, will be defined by the fact that this request has the majority support of the legitimate representatives of the Serbian people, as we also agreed last time, because that request for the replacement of ministers from the SDA had the majority of legitimate representatives, here representatives in this Parliament who came from the Bosniak people. So, it will be something that guides us and, I say, we don't need a story, at least as far as we're concerned, and as far as the chairman of the Council of Ministers is concerned, we don't need to open up a story about the quality of Minister Šarović, deputy of this, deputy of that, etc., because that level of story just doesn't work. We're not at that level. I must say here that I expected a more correct approach from my colleagues from the SDS at least when it comes to these aspects that I have touched and which concern us from HDZ and us who are trying to represent the Croatian people and their national interests in accordance with the electoral will of that people who manifested themselves in the last elections. Unfortunately, I didn't really expect the SDS to try anti-Croatian rhetoric on what, perhaps win the sympathy of Bosniak political parties or who, to turn the matter around. Well, I really don't understand how this need to charge anything wrong in this country, of course I understand that the SDS will accuse Milorad Dodik, it's understandable, but to add Dragan Čović without any need, it's really incomprehensible. Dragan Čović is the president of a political party that received the absolute support of the Croatian people in the last elections, while at the same time the leader, and that party, and the people who gave them the trust, have been disabled to have a member of the BiH presidency, is unfair in the decision-making process in the Parliamentary Assembly, because representatives of the Serb people can also stop a decision that they do not like and representatives of the Bosniak people as well. In the Federation of BiH, I will not mention, it is troublesome enough, the electoral will of the Croatian people is not respected at all, and it is not only the Constitution of the Federation of BiH that has been violated but also the Electoral Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17547	Let's go back to the agenda after all.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17548	I'm absolutely totally in the agenda. If any of the observations don't like them, politically you don't like them, Mr. Bećirović, you can replicate later. So it is not clear to me where the need to introduce this aspect of calling HDZ, to call itself Dragan Čović because there is no agreement from Sejdić-Finc when HDZ was most active in offering 62 proposals for the solution to the issue. It reminds me of what you're sending someone to the firing wall and then you resent him, is the biggest grudge that doesn't go there singing. It's really amazing. And here's that, given that time is about to end, not to spread the story, we're going to be in line with these principles that I've led to behave this time as we've been doing so far. And here, I'm taking the opportunity to appeal to everyone to leave the Council of Ministers alone for at least the next year to try to do their job properly. Let's give them a chance, because it will be in the interest of all the peoples and all the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17549	Replica Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17550	Here, I have to replicate my colleague Mata Franjičević, what you have said to the chairman, today are replicated by the Bošnjak, here are the Hrvat, because here is a colleague Franjičević brought forth a series of untruths probably invited to this session, meaning BHTV, he has the opportunity, something a colleague of Lozančić was talking about, so Mr Ivanković replicated on the subject. Look at the fact that we are speaking, as counterpart Franjičević said, that there is no need to open the story of quality, I don't know, Minister Šarović and the others. So where does that lead us? I ask him if he'd like to be run by someone who can or who wants to do something in his county, in his county, that county or the community, or who wants to do something, or so that we can meet some rules of the game, so no matter who or what it is, or someone who's doing good, so let's change it? So we can't think of things that way and we can't say that she's threatened, so this national legitimacy. The Croatian Democratic Community, or representatives of the HDZ, BiH, are represented as large Hrvat or rather the turbo Hrvat, is it, with very little, in a small segment, whether they spend a lot of energy, protecting the Croatian people in BiH about the threat. And I cannot reconcile with the fact that the HDZ of BiH is now talking so much about the election problems of the BiH presidency members when they have been permanent in power since 1996 with their various coalition partners and could absolutely change the Electoral Law the way it has suited them. But he didn't want it, because he wouldn't have anything to gain from an election or what he says, an absolute majority. Earlier, a colleague, Mladen Ivanković, spoke about the census, if we count that the Croatian coalition HDZ 1990 and HSP received 53,000 votes, if we count that the People's Party was given work to improve 53,000 votes, I'm surprised that one of the colleagues from the SDP, probably they too are legitimate as Hrvat or you are not legitimate representatives of the Croatian people that you too... don't say something about this part, then we can't talk about legitimate representatives and that to the absolute Croatian people from the HDZ of BiH. I will remind my colleagues from the HDZ of BiH when this House in an indirect or indirect manner chose a member of the presidency on behalf of Ivo Miro Jović without a single Croatian vote other than Mr Jović, did it not bother them so much then? Therefore, we do not have to forget some things or cross them or distort them. So, here's the representation no one is absolute, so neither is the HDZ of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17551	Thank you. 63 The Word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17552	Thank you very much. If these five or entry into the sixth hour should mean that we are effective at least in something, which is that we understand in the meantime that coalitions are demanding political arrangements, then it could be a message, here's to be something that's useful from these five, six hours we've had. The coalition action agreement between the SNSD and the SDS, by, was to present the joint action of the two political parties based on agreed objectives and programmes. But here's what happened, in our opinion, is that someone has deviated from the rules of the game, and then it is a political arrangement that is at stake, not at all thinking about it, and not putting it individually, because everyone is talking about Mr. Šarović today alone, it is three people at today's session, so we're talking about breaking up a political arrangement that means we're not changing, but it means that the end of the political arrangement, means that the political parties that have done it and agreed and now they're divulging, means the resignation of the people who have received this arrangement thanks to each other. We felt that the conclusion of this arrangement needed to harmonize our actions and believe it was not easy to coordinate the action under that agreement and very zealously and correctly we acted in that part, even when it came to things that the SNSD could not accept as proper. So, I don't think the SDS can object to a single word, that in the conduct of this SNSD deal he's made any failure or any of the things that he's hurt that same agreement. Did it have to come to that agreement at all? For years, the SNSD has been very good at representing the interests of the RS in BiH's joint institutions, and this has never been questioned, but we felt that political tightness was never good and we didn't need it this time either, so we offered this arrangement to the SDS. So, by our will, we offered this arrangement, even though we were not forced upon it and we didn't have to. As anyone will decide, it's a matter of their own capacity. The SNSD will decide according to the capacity it has, and the SDS will also decide on its own capacity. Today's the wedding. We know that there is always much more love, style, and good ambition at a wedding than when it differs and always needs to be preserved, especially at times like this, a sense of measure needs to be preserved. Because you never know when someone's gonna be a coalition partner again. And that's why I don't want to say any ugly things on that side, but I want to say a few things that SNSD keeps saying as an insult to SDS, and maybe we should have talked more about that than we talked about anything. So the key reason why SNSD is against SDS is this incredible grammar when it comes to taking positions, all the free positions that have come up. Someone recently said that more than 50 SDS people came to different positions thanks to the political arrangement. Maybe, so I don't know, maybe I'm wrong, but I'm talking about it, if it is, here's 50, if 50 positions were taken through an agreement that concluded two parties, which kept the opposition action, because there were no measures in it, there should be, uh, an early election, although it's known there's no chance of early elections, that it's just a story that's for the public, so it wasn't correct. Because if, if it wasn't good co-operation with SDS, he could have told SNSD – please excuse us from today, we don't accept this agreement, and that's how all ties are broken. We cannot maintain the positions that have been obtained through a political agreement and act as if you are not in power. It's a mistake you really have and can't forget about it. So we weren't honest, either at the time of the signing of the agreement or today we weren't. You can't defend any loss of agreement in the story of Mirko Šarović, you can't, this man can be 64 most ideal, but the loss of two coalition partners who decided for a reason to work together in joint institutions is something different from the story that many of you wanted to convert... about Mirko Šarović. So, the coalition commits, obliges both partners, cannot only commit SNSD. How one will pass in the next election, so don't talk about it, is not appropriate in this House, nor in these people who speak of it, each will receive a punishment or a reward for what he has done. I think it was, I resent it to the SDS really, that measure you should have shown -- we're not going to deal with the SNSD, we're leaving power, so we're going to act like a real coalition. But to keep so many places and to say that SNSD is that, which is known to have no such quality, and to our partners we are very luxurious, much more than we should be, you can all respect us, but to say that we were incorrect in that relationship, it doesn't stand. And I think this is the only conclusion that we have to make, the political arrangements commit, when we make them, we need to think a lot more about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17553	Thank you. Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević has used two announcements scheduled for business interventions and replicas, but has the right to discuss. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17554	I thought you'd deny me that, too. Thank you. First of all, I would refer to what my dear colleague Majkić said. I know that SNSD MPs are here today in a thankless position and I know that most of them were against this, but that the party directive came from above. And we can't look back on next year's election, because this is all about them. The SDS, when it was building the platform, made it clear that the opposition remains in the RS. At later meetings of the SNSD party leadership and the SNSD leadership offered us a joint performance, such an offer was in the 2014 elections, such an offer was in April, such an offer was received by President Bosić the other day in Brussels, and come along with us in 2014. Mirko Šarović will stay. And of course we've been asked to, here and some colleagues here have been telling us, you have to dull your opposition blade in the RS, it's not the office that your MPs are doing in the National Assembly. Obviously, it hurt SNSD. If we're talking about grammar, in January 2006 at the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Slovenia, 49 people were employed, along with inspectors, today there are 119. The finance ministry has employed under 100 people, today there are over 300. Dear colleague Franjičević, why do you say someone is dragging HDZ in? No, we are not bringing in HDZ, but your leader, Mr Dragan Čović, because Minister Šarović is not the first victim of the Dodik-Čović-Covic tandem. Their first victim is what the RS media is talking about, another minister who has done his job with honor and integrity, and that was RS Health Minister Mr Stanić. When Mr Stanić began to review contracts with the companies "Inelmed" Mostar and "Intermed" Banja Luka, a sister company, of which 86 thousand dialysisrs were purchased and when it was handed over to the RS Special Prosecutor's Office, the media said Mr Dragan Čović then requested the shift of Minister Stanić 65 od Dodik, which was met with him. Mr. Šarović, therefore, is the victim because he introduced measures of reciprocity and protected BiH's interests from Croatian lobbies. Yesterday on the Constitutional Legal Commission, we had the Excise Act to help domestic brewers, and a little bit of that, those big importers to pay for bigger excises. You even voted against the constitutional basis of that law. I said in a joke at the time – are you protecting the March beer? To find out later from some of the colleagues sitting here that the Croatian ambassador of Croatia has contacted some other colleagues here and asked them to vote against the Law for the sake of Karlovac and March beer. I must say we are, Minister Šarović had the same pressures from Serbia, but he said – no, I love you, but each of us has his wallet and you dear brothers if you like to put us in our wallet. What else is the sin of Minister Šarović? The sin of Minister Šarović is that he prevented a major crime, a robbery that has taken place since 2006 through his ministry, and it is about Banja Luka heat. Namely, a tycoon close to the SNSD, named Milorad Mihajlović, received a contract in 2006 for the acquisition of a tycoon for Banjalučka Toplana. His price of his mule, which has an unauthorized amount of sulfur over 1%, his mule has 3%, the price of that mule is 324 stamps per tonne more expensive than that of the normal regular in the refinery. Last year's heat in Banja Luka purchased 25,000 tons of that mule, so 800,000 marks went to black funds. The same thing was done in Gradišca. When Minister Šarović was appointed minister, although counterpart Kalabić says he is not a lodger in the toplan, Minister Šarović came to a hundred requests from the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction and Ecology of the RS, here he is, the Ministry of Trade and Tourism of the Republic of Slovenia, again for Gradiška and Banja Luka, the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining of the Republic of Slovenia, that based on the decision on the quality of liquid derivatives, which says - that the minister can give consent to imports of an unquality mule unless there is no normal one in the world in any refinery, to give his consent to the import of this mule. Minister Šarović spoke nicely to the Rafineria in Brod and asked – do you have a 1% mule? The refinery in the boat, here's a nice answer – we've got as much as you want. And Minister Šarović, here's his answer, nicely referred the memos in which he says – by analysing data obtained from the country's oil producers and in the environment about the quantities of oil available to store the mules, with the sulphur content up to 1%, etc., and he says he does not approve of the imports. And so these tanks that needed SNSD in the election campaign to secure 8 million remain somewhere in the region. And you can imagine from 2006 until last year, 8 million times. It is one of the sins of Minister Šarović. I wonder what kind of message we are sending to the public today, a public who is not satisfied with the authorities in this country and the public who says in all polls – that there is one man who does his job well, there is one man who works in the interest of all BiH citizens. And we are actually sending this public a message that this country is ruled by alienated centres of power. My colleague Magazinović, you smile very nicely, I don't know if you think a piece of it gets in those 8 million later. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I don't know. Mr. Kalabić...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17556	Please don't... 66
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17557	It's very relaxed.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17558	First, allow the MP to speak, and when he speaks, do not comment on other colleagues, it is not the turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17559	And little is what Dodik did in those midnight hours here last night, when some talks took place in this building, which he promised you compared to what Minister Šarović did for the country's economy. And we're proud of him. And it is not a problem the SDS will go to the opposition because the store was made midnight last night, unfortunately for the damage of the RS, but the SDS will return in 2014 and we know that 2014 is our unique chance, that we should not gamble it and in 2014 we will have partners who have the strength to say no to crime and corruption, and not just declare that they are fighting. Because what I just showed here, this is what SIPA needs to deal with, this is why someone needs to go to jail. In 2014, our partners will be those who don't make a crisis. Oh, yes, Mr. Franjičević, your party is making a crisis, it's real from the moment we chose this Parliament's leadership. You remember that at that session when we chose your Parliament's leadership, your leader did not want to come, although the previous evening President Bosić called him and said we have a majority in the second round to elect Božo Ljubić. I must say that, at that time, Milorad Dodik called President Bosić ten times that day and threatened to break up the coalition agreement if we choose this Parliament's leadership. So there are two leaders in this country and their names are Milorad Dodik and Dragan Čović, who are constantly holding the crisis and ruling the crisis. What their goal is, I don't know, but what I do know and what the results of the local elections have shown, is that citizens are fed up with that kind of policy. And the SNSD made a lot of mistakes and they always made their mistakes at night, I remember the election of the first Dodik government, when EUFOR or SFOR helicopters, as they were already called, were chasing a HDZ MP, it was a big mistake later. And again tonight, in some small hours here when he sent his envoy Dragan Čović to negotiate and bid on his behalf, he made another big mistake. But I say, we are very relaxed, the results of the local elections have shown how many RS citizens trust the SDS. I'm sorry that this happened, and I'm sorry that it came to the SNSD at one point in its curriculous interests, put its preparations for the next elections ahead of the general interests and interests of the RS. When we entered this platform, we were aware that the SDS voters didn't understand it and we put RS interests ahead of party interests. I am sorry that the SNS did not show such strength to endure and that this coalition survived and unfortunately destroyed one chance for this to be a principle that was permanently established and that would remain permanently in the legacy of the RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17560	Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević used her right to discuss and reply. Mr. Franjičević has the right to another replica. Here you go. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17561	I've kept it smart until the end, maybe after this convincing presentation of my colleague Aleksandra, maybe it would be best to apply the Babalja method to the replica, the first one to shut up. But I really don't know, colleagues. Do you understand what you're saying? Do you understand all the dimensions of what you're saying? I'll skip the one about the white horse knight, and well, that's such a cute story, but I don't get it, I said in my debate -- Dragan Čović led the party, which despite all attempts by counterparts Jurišić and counterpart Lijanović, received a convincing majority of Croatian votes in BiH at the last general elections, with HDZ in '90, almost 90%. At the same time, Dragan Čović as president of the strongest Croatian political parties through people acting as BiH's officials at different levels has no impact on developments in the Federation when it comes to executive power, when it comes to public enterprises, etc. It cannot stop any decision at BiH level as some other leaders can, has no influence in the BiH presidency, and should have if the legitimate will of one of the three constituent peoples is respected. And the man, therefore, who has no influence and can't do much about it can do anything, he can produce processes, he has a magic wand to hitchhike something, to somewhere, to relax something, to see everything, to hear everything, etc. So I think give yourself, uh, I think what's too much is. And while you're mentioning, when you're fantasizing about my position on the Law amending the Excise Act, we're going to come to that topic and it's not, it's not fair at all, it's unnecessary to open that question, just to tell you on your fantasies I'm now hearing that the Croatian Ambassador was here at all and that he talked to someone, he didn't even ask me for a conversation and he didn't see me, that's one thing. The second thing, I, this Law goes according to a regular legislative procedure. When it comes to the amendment phase, I have already prepared amendments to that law, and one of the amendments is that for quantities, for those brewers that produce more than 400 thousand hectolitres of beer per year, these are mostly those outside BiH's borders, that the excise duty is not 0.25 KM as currently foreseen, but to be 0.30 KM. So much... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] That's right, my intervention went in the direction that there should be greater benefits for small brewers, and we'll only have them in BiH and not beyond its borders.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17563	My colleague Jurišić will not be entitled to a replica, I'm sorry, but he used the right to replication and discussion, we keep precise records. The word is from Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17564	I thank the chairman. Here, since we're bringing this debate to an end, let me point out again that I'm going to propose this decision that we're going to vote on on behalf of the SNSD Club, but I need to look back on what's been going on today, and I've been a little unbelief on all this. If someone had told me that this is going to happen today in Parliament one year, because we are all witnesses of all these events, that the BiH Parliament will be echoed by a host of Bosniak MPs from the SDA and the moats of these Croatian Komsics, and these Komsic Croatian parties and the narration of the SDS for three chairs, I would not believe that this will be so loudly heard today and all day in one such situation that someone is trying to present it as a problem and then in the same sentence, say that this group that makes those positions, that nothing is good, that nothing is just saying more about those who do not respect one thing in this Parliament and that is democratic capacity. The democratic capacity of the SNSD given to us by the people and citizens of the RS allows us to lead this initiative today, not because we don't love someone, not because we resent someone or someone else. That's what others have been doing, they're going to do in the future, and I think it's democratic, and I don't see any reason to be nervous, and I don't see any reason for what's been said here today all day. And this team that prepared this transmission, they haven't been here for a long time when much more important things were, those behind this transmission actually don't think well of BiH, but this way, because I see that one center is coordinating. You see how the SDS has been ordered to repeat recently that the problem is Dodik and Čović and look at what a strong international centre has first promoted this syntagma and gave it to them and says – let's do it now, we'll sort of step it up. In my neighborhood, there's an event that's of course being convinced. You know that raven bird is a ominous bird and then that raven when it comes usually people know that he carries the black news and that someone died, then those in the village who go to the funerals like that, because there are rich tables there, they know when the raven ads the feast is, the funeral is and they go, the custom of the people is that these people always feed and it took so long until people in the woods have disrupted some of the life flows of that raven. Then he began to wet himself in the weather and when they began nowhere to bury and the raven undergarments. And when he began to rise both in the morning and in the afternoon and in the evening and in some inappropriate hours, then they saw that the raven had no entanglement, he wore nothing more of them than he by heart. He's no one else for anything our people would say, not fair. And in that raven, the Serbian Democratic Party has turned, the one who's underpants, the story, we've been listening for seven years -- it's over, it's black, it's gone, there's no pensions, there's an apocalypse tomorrow. We increase pensions, no salaries, regular wages, we win here seven years to this day, I don't say it won't one day, but never, perhaps even then win. In the last election, we've been listening to this same story of this raven-slutted, scrawny guy, who's already barely waving his wings, we're going to win, we're going to be here, we're going to be, down there, nothing's wrong. I think, if you listen to yourselves, today you say, you won't win even because of the threats you said today, that you will wave your finger if we win. We know what happens if you win. We felt it, some of us personally, I tried at the beginning of the session to appeal that here you are not going to open that kind of conflict, but you are not. Now, you see, when that raven gets past the eagle, it looks a little bit like something, but when an eagle spreads wings for a raven, there's no room, because the eagle is an eagle, because the raven is a raven. Now that's the point of today's whole story. You can't do that, you just realize that this raven has to fall one day, and he won't be able to wave either with his wings or anything like that if he doesn't change his tactics, and if that raven doesn't know he's got a voice when he's got something, and he doesn't do it in his own way, and he's trying to deceive those who listen to him. And I tried to say it all the time, that it didn't make sense, we warned the SDS to tear down institutions in Banja Luka. The SDS is making Mr. Šarović a potter in Banja Luka heat, not me, mentioning something, nebuloses that have nothing to do with, which these people here don't care about. What does the BiH Parliament have to do with the purchase of mahouts in Mostar, Zenica, Banja Luka and the like. But, of course, freaked out by the loss of those chairs, the hysteria that caught them shows. And I'm asking you what would happen if right now the SNSD with this capacity says we're withdrawing the initiative? That means that 69 of you would have given up all the grades you've given today about this coalition, about this government and everything, and that because of those three chairs in some way, I know Babalj that you, Babalj would, you wouldn't know, the one about it, because this is BiH, and this is BiH, this is the land of wonder only with us can this happen. Tonight we're called by a man from the top of the SDS and that's for us, it's only possible for us, but today they don't talk about it, we all have these problems, is it possible, he says, they'll be kidnapped. Who's sick, who's gonna get kidnapped, we're not hunting anybody? And it says – Šarović. They won't kidnap me. Don't be afraid. They'll be removed. And of course it's the result of the internal relations that it has, not only in the SDS, but also with us, and with other political parties. But that's our reality, too, not to talk about it. We've been wasting our time here all day, almost no political party that doesn't want to see Mirko Šarović's back, come on, don't talk. I'm trying to protect a man to the extent possible from that story, but as long as you're taking me by the tongue, I have to tell you, because there's a famous story from the SDS that she's been getting rid of her staff. Mirko Šarović, I'm telling you, it wasn't even the will of the SDS, they know how he was elected, if this club had been asked, he would never have been a minister, here and now I'm going to tell you. And I don't know why you've been losing all day when everyone has their candidate and their favorite and now they're trying to prove they're defending themselves. And that's why you turned this into something today that's not appropriate. The message that some fight will be fought in the National Assembly here is not correct. The National Assembly, gentlemen of the SDS, is not a corridor, it is a prominent institution of the RS in which a democratic debate, in which you are allowed for the first time, because you did not allow it, that you can democratically do everything in democratic frameworks, but that you cannot change the majority that the people have given down to the SNSD you cannot represent as disaster and the like. You have the right to your position, but that attitude of yours is not correct and we have the right to say that you lie every day, all the more, and no one believes you. Because if you were telling the truth right now you'd be the government down there, not us, because I guess the number of votes was the only measure of all that. I don't know what's gonna happen in the future, but that's how it is now. And you keep trying, I know someone's pushing you, and I know that international centres have given you a voice more than you can stand to start this year before, and that's why you're making this whole story. Of course it's hard to run into a big and powerful SNSD, it takes a lot of effort and energy, and I envy you trying, but there are rules. You can't show that much hysteria because what you think in a divorce case if a woman said in court - I won't go away from you. But you're going to go, or vice versa to tell your husband - I'm not getting a divorce. Well, one partner when he won't, it's over, it's over, another scenario is impossible. You'd be the one who'd stay, someone would stay in that marriage with all their heart. Here we see today that they would stay with all their hearts, only if someone, but no, can't make a decision was made, politically, democratically. I don't see anything controversial in that whole story. The story about energy, the fake story you're telling, that's what I heard from the SDA. And that's what I'm going to tell you, a story that's also true in my neighborhood. When his son bought a tractor, his father resented that he was wasting money, so he said, "Behold, I sold a pair of oxen and a pair 25 years ago, and now he's behind the horn." This one fainted immediately, you know what those money looked like 25 years ago, because they weren't completely, completely worthless anymore, because it was about those old thousands. That's how it is with you, Drina and all sorts of drones can run for thousands of years, you're saving something, defending, not doing anything, and nothing's happening. No, you've all had a chance to build at least a home center on Drina. Except for the communists there so far, no one's done anything, and everyone's talking like they're not giving anything. Here's 10 years we've been listening to the SDA, first you've been on the Party for BiH, so you didn't ask them for anything, so now the same story, but nobody's making anything, nobody's doing anything, nothing's happening, Drina's running where she ran, these people now have some intention to do something. I think at least it's right for you to let them try to do it. 70 That's why I'm going to propose a decision now, I think we should bring this to an end, respect the procedure, not make this circus, if you think there's a demonstration in front of Parliament now, and that the SDA has animated Bošnjak that will come now, that they will be making riots over Mirko Šarović -- they won't. What do you think the ministers in this country are the favorite thing, how you've been trying to convince people to start playing those games tonight?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17565	Ten seconds, try to read the decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17566	The decision will be given to you all by hand and I ask the professional service to share.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17567	The MP Dragan Vrankić also has the right to another replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17568	Thank you very much. My replica is not a colleague of Kalabić, it's a colleague of Pandurević. I can understand that a colleague has the need to defend and justify his party colleague and to explain all his good intentions, however, I do not see the need so much for our president's power and to see everything negative, which absolutely does not stand. In all these activities that have been so far, we have come into position and we have made it clear that we accept as partner anyone who recognises the legitimate will of the Croatian people for its institutional equality. And this is what happens on the political scene of the RS, colleagues explained it from... and it is a legitimate and legal thing for us and we would accept it and it is different. But I can't accept the fact that this is the way the truth is brought out, especially when it comes to this law, which is either the decision made by Mr. Šarović, so 99% of those decisions went through the Council of Ministers, so Mr. Bevanda and everyone else did, otherwise it wouldn't have passed. So it's not just the unique work of Mr. Šarović, it's the whole Council of Ministers, where they're participating the others, and there's no need to even talk about beer fees, when I personally supported the Law with Mr. Bojić. Of course, we have amendments, but here I was personally in order to accept that law. So you don't stand these connotations that are said here in such a bombistic way. And I would ask that it be respected once, that I hope that the time has passed to look in the Croatian people for those who are alike, mostly did not have the legitimacy and spoke with the desired voice, as others wish. The time has come for us to speak in our own voice on behalf of the legitimacy of the Croatian people and we are looking for a partner to establish healthy relations in BiH and then to sincerely talk and create a real environment for the country's progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17569	Thank you. Second replica, MP Mladen Bosić. Here you go. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17570	This has really been delayed, and for a reason it has been extended, and these demands to end this debate that comes from colleagues from the SNSD Club are for a reason, because we've heard all sorts of things. Behind these words will probably be comments and some other political relations. This session has proved much more difficult and interesting than taking down ministers. There's a part of the mask falling in this session. At this session, what's behind the curtains at night gets about its shape. That's why this session is interesting and will be important for the future. To such insults and speech by Mr. Kalabić, I can understand and he is not the first to use such a language. This rhetoric of his about them as eagles, about the various mythic stories I hear here in every assembly are probably part of the folk heritage he picked up by the hearth in his village near Prnjavor. And that's interesting, that's okay, but just to remind him that he talked about eagles and himself as eagles and before last year's election, the locals, how he's going to break up the SDS, how the SNSD comes to power. So what would you do with your wings, Mr. Kalabić? What would happen to the eagle who was overrun over the RS and over the Prnjavor. That's how you'll end up in 2014.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17571	Ambassador, Drago Kalabić has kept another replica in reserve. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17572	You see, if you had a more experienced leader, this wouldn't have happened to him, let's say he cracks all that, he would have planned it differently, but since he's young, he has time to be. Mr. Bosić, I grew up in my village by the hearth and by that people. That's where she once denied the SDS, but she ran away from that people. He's trying to catch Brisel. So I was never a member, I don't want to be proud, but now I'm good with the SDS, it wasn't very smart. I may have kept my mouth shut. Now I can tell you all the nonsense you've been doing for the past few years and what you've been doing. But you ran away from that village, and from that people, taking down Brisel and remembering when you were shutting down Radovan, you were close. When Mr. Šarović was closed, he was defended only by Milorad Dodik and SNSD. That's when you kept your mouth shut, from those centers of power, from the Court that some parties control in this House. And today they defend Šarović, and then they ask him to be shut down. That's why I didn't talk about Mirko Šarović today. We have a lot to say. When Mirko Šarović and the RS government took over, I lost my job and everything within 24 hours, but I voted here for Mirko Šarović and raised my hand because it was part of the agreement. So, we have a lot to talk about, Mr. Bosić, if you want to be a young and inexperienced leader in an attempt, you have time and here you will show the story of the eagle and God Bog you become an eagle. For you, we're eagles now. It's for you now to celebrate the eagle. Maybe one day it'll be something different, but now it's, it's like that. Vladina, Mr. Bosić, your chief was elected to Prnjavor and made of the municipality a sardine. He made a sardine out of the community, with 120 people found, and now he's 170. Your chief brought it because all Bosniak parties supported it, because it was supported by all political parties. Drago Kalabić was 8 against 1 and received 6,500 votes. And the man does the debt. It is driven exclusively under Bosnian Herzegovina flags. That's correct, probably. The Serbian Orthodox Church during the term of your commander received 3,000 marks, the Islamic religious community of 12,000 marks. He's doing the debt. And that's how elections are won. And congratulations, that's what you did, but don't think I'm going to change my mind and change mine, and the 6,500 I won in that fight against 8 political parties in Prnjavor, I'm 72 proud of that. But lost, won, I won't change my mind because I think you're bad and I think you're doing bad work and I think you're making very bad moves right now, Mr. Bosić. I don't want a Serbian Serb charge here. I spent all my time not to be. You know we've been doing the right thing. You remember my first replica today, I asked you to cut it down, make sure it's not good, it's not smart. The SDS will continue its mandate in 99
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17573	Replication time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17574	I end, the SDS will vote SNSD in 99% of the cases. Here, that's what I'm telling you... about keeping an eye on you and then it wouldn't have happened to you... because at the same time the story and the chairman...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17575	Ambassador Lazar Prodanović applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17576	Mr. Chairman. I don't know how much it makes sense to talk after all the stories, but there's one worrying thing, that we go to Parliament's House of Representatives and we have one complete illogicality. I was just going out to look at myself in the mirror and wonder at each other's things, how is it possible that the political party that should be in the opposition from today was so much of a delusion that today is just telling us what we are? It's just an amazing thing. When I know that the greatest number of these people went with such a thrill to hug with our key personalities, with such a thrill that as the greatest height of the ascension you know is called, and who are more often, and who could be in a position, be in a position much more common than any of us to communicate and contact and receive information. How is that possible? It is not fair for a respected minister or deputy minister or other deputy minister, thus creating political anštajan in the BiH executive power. Well, it's not Mr. Bevanda, I'm sorry, you idiot. It's a humiliation of common sense in the structure. If I were in place of any of these people, I would go and look at myself in the mirror and say, "Look how these people lie to us." Neither am I Anjštaj, nor am I a miracle. Politics is a virtue possible in the current situation. What was it, I would have you, and you see today we have therefore the possibility of a democracy. We have a position that has to be responsible for what we're doing, we have an opposition that has to criticise that the position is not working or working, we have brilliant public media who, for a great miracle today, are transferring this, which should be a corrective factor of democracy in the state, we have an NGO sector that would have to point to what we haven't done for BiH citizens. We don't have any of that. And the persuasion of that would be that now these people have come out, because look out, you look like sometimes the grieving families in which someone thinks or mourns interesting... How is it possible to speak so badly of authority and want to remain in such a government, if we are, how is it possible? What kind of Serbian interest is that? What's the interest of the RS? So someone's a lifeguard, it's a sinkhole. So what is the interest of Srbin, what is the interest of Bošnjak or Hrvat or BiH citizens? Well, I guess it would be a normal life. 73 I guess it would be a normal life, probably a higher pension, a higher salary, but not to us, I guess it would be some reform processes that would give us a presumption of investment in this country. What kind of energy projects are you talking about, what could be built? Show any project that BiH or any country in the region is capable now without foreign investment to do. Is there one? Here... I'm pulling out of politics right now so I'll never be in it again. We're not miracles. Interestingly connected to the infinite, dishonest, dishonest even if someone told me about SNSD, I'd know he was working against me. It would be fair, you don't need these people, I don't want to say one thing about these people, but it would be fair to say – people, we've come to an end, we can't be the government, let them take over. Or if you said a year ago – what SNSD is doing here is not in the interest of what RS is, we'll replace you, we'll do most with these, we'll take responsibility. So that's the essence of this story. Kukumakat, show some of the papers they forged, so you know what this is about? If you have such papers, hand them over to the Court and the D.A.'s office. Let these people process themselves who does so, if you think so. But you know what this is about? The political party is not a sharer of justice. The political party must participate in the construction of a rule of law in which everyone will be equally well and each will respond independently. What are we gonna do, what's it gonna be? You know, what you're saying right now, this circus we're making here, I don't believe any man with the lowest IQ can believe that it's possible that others did that, and you were part of that government. How can he believe it? How is it possible that now someone in the RS can trust me that we're all such worst, that we're talking about it alike, but I want to use all the benefits of it. It's to me, there's no possibility, no possibility. He can only believe that we want to save personal resources for personal benefit and logistics from which we believe that... we are slowing down the beggings, we were unable to act together. There is no country in a world where democracy, where we will make concentrated national governments, I do not know, and neither do I, in which everyone will participate. Yes, there is if you get... to the questions that will be answered, in which it will be realized. That's why dear friends, so I think that story we're talking about right now has only one option. So a change in executive power is possible 30 times or 48 times in 48 months. The change of the legislative authority is possible... and it is unique in some countries, so before the term of office expires. We're all gonna get a grade on that. The change of any minister, deputy minister, president of the Council of Ministers or anyone, is a political figure. We're not talking about the genius of anyone here at all, a political figure who unfortunately has to realize that whoever wants to participate in anything has to pay the price of it and not be there and answer for it, so it suits both the public and the citizens in the elections and at any other moment. In that sense, every other story loses its meaning. I, for the respect of all my colleagues and anyone, am not going to say a single negative thing about anyone. This is the process we've decided on. If you'd decided on that six months ago, I'd have given my hand to everyone and said ok, SDS or SDA took responsibility, now we're the opposition. But what, is the sunflower happening, what's going on, to whom we explain who's losing what? What we have done in order not to constantly lose in these processes, do we have the courage to say – this country needs a degree of integration through it and in this way and preservation, as well. How am I supposed to preserve the RS? Well, I guess it's in accordance with the BiH Constitution and with the programs I'm running with what the Constitution guarantees us, not with the stories of who betrayed who. It's a pure communist conspiracy that no longer works anywhere in the world. That's it, thank you. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17577	This is probably a mistake. If it's not a mistake, I remind you of two reports, one discussion. The word has an MP, Saša Magazinović. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Who's got business intervention? _________(?) I do.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17581	The Honorable Chairman. I didn't really intend to answer it, even after my colleagues Sarajlić forward, I said I wouldn't react, but my colleague Pandurević did something that was incorrect and made me answer my word. So, colleague Pandurević, it's stupid, and besides that, it's illogical, even though you said it in a joke, to connect your colleagues with your knowledge of SNSD's alleged crime with oils, greases, I don't know what you were talking about or what you were talking about, but mostly in that direction, something went wrong. I don't argue that you're accusing each other of crime and I support anyone who brings out evidence and I invite him to take it to where the evidence of crime is being carried. And these aren't TV cameras for the show, they're institutions dealing with crime detection. But don't take those in your mouth who, with your war, the war between the SNSD and the SDS and your rolling in the mud together, have nothing. So, spare us that, this kindly please, and this is the last time I'm reacting like this. If you were distracted by my smile while you were speaking, I'll tell you what he's caused it. When you presented these evidences that I carefully heard about, the three colleagues sitting here who are close enough to hear them, they said at the same time, this is called consistency. This certainly didn't happen yesterday, so you're bringing it up today, but you're bringing it up when it comes to the shift. Consistency would have been if you had offered your knowledge to law enforcement authorities in this country... to the police 75 agencies and the D.A. and whoever it was you needed when you came to them, unless you came in preparation to defend the position of xy. But not to be all negative in today's session, I think there are a lot of positive things that have happened here. There were a lot of emotions today, a lot of things said that probably some of the colleagues wouldn't repeat if they spoke again, because they probably wouldn't talk again under the same emotions. And it's a good thing that in the end, two multiethnic pains have been profiled that we'll see what they look like and vote on. In one multiethnic bloc, there will be SDA with the SDS, if I understand the statements of counterparts Lijanović and Jurišić. In another, the multiethnic bloc will be the majority of other parties, between them and the SDP, which is the very participation of the SDP in the bloc giving him a dose of multiethnicity. However, here is fellow Sarajlić, a little patience, there is plenty of time, and I will explain everything you do not understand. Yesterday at the Council of Ministers' meeting there was a vote, and to that I will only return to it to say, it is very important that there is another positive thing, in my opinion that has happened, and that is, a much more moderate rhetoric of the SDS than the state and state institutions has ever been. And I think it's really positive and I think it's positive that the president of the SDS is talking about reconciliation, about partnership, and I really congratulate you on that performance and I invite you to keep talking that way, because it's good for this country, regardless of what was in the past. And I must admit that I thank you for your courage to speak and step forward in this way. But you don't have to be part of the government to be part of the story of internal reconciliation, of dialogue, of trying to get together, whether we're power or opposition, do concrete things and come forward. When I talk about this act, I really have to say hello again. But I also have one more thing to tell you. I don't believe what you're saying. I don't think you believe that either. However, I am willing to believe everything you say, when you show it in concrete, concrete works. Here's the thing. We had a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission two days ago, I didn't want to say this, but I simply need to say this after such a step-up and we received a request from the Court of Justice in Strasbourg, through an agent of BiH, that on behalf of Parliament, the Chamber of Justice declares whether in the case of Pilav, who is well-known to you all whether there is or is no discrimination. And we all on the Constitutional Legal Commission, through the discussion, have found that there is, because it is an obvious thing, except for the representatives of the SDS, who said there is no discrimination that Bošnjak in RS cannot be a candidate for the presidency. But he offered a solution. And the solution is illustrated through a statement – Uuu's country there is guaranteed freedom of movement, so that someone who's out of order can pack bags and move to another part of the country, where he can be run. Ilithy translated, I as a Federation Srbin, should pack bags and go to RS to have that right, and the RS Bošnjak should pack bags and move to the Federation so he can run. That's why I don't believe this story, because it's not followed by deeds. It is followed by a discussion by Mr. Bojić, where he starts talking about the spiritual and real founder of RS, so stop, he cannot tell him his name. So say it all the way, finish your sentence. So what's the name? What's the issue? So much for patriotism and words and deeds. And now that I have a little more time, I Sarajlić answer his questions, or I will explain to my colleagues what has not been clear since this morning, because he has repeated the same discussion twice. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Council of Ministers, an initiative on Mr Šarović's replacement and two other members of the Council of Ministers. During the debate, there was a dominant question that the Council of Ministers should be made clear among other things and what was put forward as reasons for Mr Šarović's shift. Well, it doesn't say, Mr. 76 Asime, it doesn't have to write everything in order to know. In that sense, Ministers and Radončić and Hadžić and Lagumdžija, as you said, have made it clear that what is written in the explanation, and this is what we have repeated here today, cannot be the reason for the state minister's shift. And as SBB colleagues have said, the SDP absolutely does not accept the explanation given in the initiative to replace Mr Šarović. Are there other reasons? I believe they exist. Which is why people didn't put other reasons, but they turned to those reasons that they could sell to their electoral body, that's their problem, but that's not our reason. When it comes to voting in Parliament, once again, and in these 30 seconds, the only truth is that we have a major political conflict in the RS above all between the SNSD and the SDS that threatens to spill over to BiH institutions. We will not allow it, and by our vote today, we will clearly show it and not with our emotions, but with pure lunch, today we will end this item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17582	I have already said that I will lead this session exclusively to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and use the provisions of Article 27 which speak of the duties of the chairman. With that in mind, I give my word to Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17583	...no microphone turned on...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17584	Mr. Džaferović, this debate lasts six hours. Everyone here has had a chance to report several times. Please, Vvas, and we'll discuss it when we get to the vote. Let's bring the debate to an end. Here you go, pal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17585	Mr. Chairman, thank you, but first one unusual application for seven years, to allow me to speak sitting, because of the problems I have really with my legs. I do, if you can please. And this isn't about the media, it's about me...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17586	Here I give you approval, and I believe no one, no objection, and no MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17587	Thank you very much. So, first I'm going to start a discussion with the television and I don't care who called them today and sent them. And I said at first as if Bog didn't give it up for some big blow and some sensation, which will keep the public so busy, that all the people, and those who work in businesses, are going to look for exits to go watch the BH TV broadcast. The only thing that's good and what BH TV could do is 77 do, because it's being broadcast and recorded, print out hundreds of thousands of CDs, and share them with respected colleagues, and I never mention names here, and now I have to because they're active today, and when there's no cameras, they're not that much. And the media really bothers me these days, because when they're gone, I keep picking up every dot. So, Mr. Sarajlić, I'm coming from you. You rent a hundred thousand CDs and in a promotion share what you've been doing today. Dear colleagues from the SDS, especially you. In seven years of my work in Parliament, I have never given a single story from the RS Parliament to BiH level, and I have discussed here what they are discussing. But in the presentation of my colleague Pandurević, whom I have repeatedly, I have no right to warn anyone, but I have asked him not to transfer the atmosphere from the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I am in one part of the presentation of my colleague Pandurević, and I have recognized that he is speaking at the same time from Visegrad SDS, MP from Gacko and MP from Banja Luka, and that they are making a fuss in the Parliament of the RS, as usual. And I begged them in a way that was quite realistic, justified, not to mention the president's name, here's the Republic, the president of the SNSD. Well, that man is not a member of Parliament. He is a member of Parliament, Milorad Živković, in the College. And just before that, when I listed all my colleagues in the first presentation, talk about us and tell us if we were working in harmony here, under 1), it's the law for me because I signed the oath, by the Constitution of BiH. Tell us if, in seven years' time, we have transferred any responsibilities from RS level to BiH level. Not because others honor us that we are against BiH, it is not true. That is the only way we have protected the constitutional position of BiH, of course the constitutional position of the RS and no one can erase it. So, it doesn't last from the election when Slavuj was elected in 2006 as an MP, it lasts from the Dayton Agreement and that's how it works. I begged you as friends. Furthermore, all possible coalitions as they are called here in Parliament are not the only ones. Niko skis. And it was excellently diagnosed by the respected chairman, Bećirović, and it was not difficult. Here they surfaced today, I will not say conflicts, discussions, replicas of Bosniak, Serbian, Croatian. Well, they were at least and at least that topic was, and maybe they were more invited to speak than we were. And it was noted that the SNSD MPs did not guard and fear themselves, but they did not want to participate in the debate at first. But when we're put in a position to be attacked by those who have no argument, they can't say that in seven years' time, how much power we've done here, we've done one single damage to the RS. If they say so, not that I'm not going to be involved in politics, but I'm going back from the refugee and I'm applying to the place of origin, so I can vote for a respected fellow Sarajlić, who in the next election, if all of these CDs are shared, on the basis of this discussion will certainly be the winner. So the stenograms show how much someone had come forward, when there's no cameras, how much they used to see these cameras today. And if I had wondered, I would never have let them be. Not that I'm afraid of what the people will see, but I can't understand that every time, this very BH television v, which I supported while the television of all the peoples and here in Parliament was saying that in the RS, that television was seen by 2% of the people. Among those 2%, I'm the one who can criticize them. What's the camera doing today? So they can hear what he says...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17588	Let's leave the television alone, but let's get back to the agenda. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17589	Well, they're everything, they're creators. Tomorrow I will ask the chairman, whom I appreciate and I am friends with you as a man, not that you are a member of this party or of that people, but that I respect you as a man, until you violate the integrity and position of the RS. As soon as you're on your way, I'll be on your way. Not verbally, I'm weaker than you, this physically, but verbally. I won't give you anything against the RS to say, nothing. Because it's a constitutional category. Now imagine this session today, when the SDS defends the Republic from the SNSD who has saved all of this here for seven years and what they've ruined since 2003, or '02, I don't know either, I led security here at the time, and we've barely been saving our misery and here we get satisfaction. And that's important, that the Constitutional Court that works not since yesterday, after 10 years says the SNSD is right, that international conventions should be respected, that the Court of BiH will be a special point, who will pay the costs, rebuild procedures and so on. The SDS did not fight for that position, but at each session, Slavuj exhibited it and my colleagues respected by the SNSD, Mr. Živković. So when he calls tomorrow, all the portals don't exist that didn't blacken it. Mrs. Majkić, I don't know how to survive, what they're saying against her. I'm talking about Milica Marković not talking to a colleague. I don't know if there's any niggers in the world, what they say about her. And all these colleagues of mine, Tomić and Lazo and Bursać. People, we want a normal BiH, but according to the Constitution, where RS has its place. And the shift of these people, not personally against Mirko, Mirko most of all I know, the SDS didn't even know who Mirko was. I know him. So this is a matter of political position where the SDS is. Listen to me. They had a plaque with the SDS. You know when they were with us? When there was a hostage crisis, everyone gathered at Živković's, so as they slavuj, so will they. What a platform, we chase them down the halls and say why you'll vote or be unique. Let go of those platforms and those stories. There's got to be a platform to go forward. And I must remind you, it's not Mr. Šarović's shift personally. In 2007, here you colleagues who were, you adopt, you give support, what you all insist today, the first point of economy, the second realisation of the economy, the third implementation of the economy, the 101st economy, the 401st economy. I'm getting backup. There's no economy. And today, they're against the power plant, and they don't have anything to do with what they're going to look like, they don't have a relationship. People, whoever brings the money, if they're clean, wait, let them build. If they're dirty, me by the hand and the one I can barely walk on my feet, I'm carrying on your behalf a charge against that man you think is responsible. Now, that was the policy of the SDS, and today they honor me, as I am the Camelot. I was never a member of any party after the Communist Union, and I founded them. Here's a public statement. I founded the SDS and I'm sorry that today instead of this session I'm not at the Palace up there, because I got a call, here it is, let's record the camera, the only me and get the president of my party, Milorad Dodik. He was an MP, and I ran security. Where are these behind the back, they shouldn't have...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17590	Now it's time, colleague Jovičić, now time is up for discussion. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17591	I'm finishing up, they shouldn't have come, I'll open that question. Niko of them were allowed to appear at the Palace until Radovan Karadžić was stuck in The Hague. And today, the great protectors of the SDS. Thank you very much. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17592	I thank Ambassador Jovičić. The word has an MP, Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17593	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. It's a good thing he's got this transmission, no matter what some people are complaining about, let this world see it all and look at it. Some will likely be disappointed that there have been no stronger conflicts between us here in the Parament and some will again be encouraged that, to a good extent, the parliamentary debate has gone in this direction, without much insult, etc. I'm proud of what SNSD did here today. We tried not to insult anyone, we tried only with arguments to show them here. I can fully understand Mr. Šarović as well as Mr. Assistants, or Deputy Ministers, because I was in that position myself, so believe me, sometimes it's embarrassing and when a man is told nice and not when he takes everyone for his right to say and to evaluate that work. There's been a misunderstanding here on the route of the platform we signed, and it's funny now to accuse anyone individually. And I can tell you, Mr. Šarović, that when I was in a similar situation, those who felt sorry for me, they worked most against me and laughed at me afterwards. That's why you'll probably always have a different and correct relationship with us, unlike some of your colleagues who are kind of publicly protecting you here, and they can't wait behind your back when they come because they're looking at their own chance. Why the government shift, or the minister's shift? Well, in Italy almost a year, government changes, so no one's head falls off. And with us, if it's one minister, we all jump, everything goes to waste, we won't be able to get out of the crisis. It's not like that. No, here's an example for that, and the RS government without any earthquakes has reconstructed the government. Not only because they did not do their job well, but because new people should come in a certain way, freshen up, and they are all from the party in power of the SNSD. To me today, it's only a bit of a grudge that some MPs have tried to make the problems that I first heard in RS, that they tried to transfer to Parliament here in BiH. I don't think that's necessary. And to citizens who are watching this today, they don't like people fighting, they don't want people having any problems, one message is that they don't need to worry or worry, and the SNSD has the strength and capacity to bring all the problems we face here in Parliament, our 8 MPs and the ninth coalition partner, to the benefit of the citizens of the RS and the citizens of all BiH. In that sense, I wish I had some things, that people had the courage to say earlier about some things that they knew about us, that they weren't the right thing to do and that they would have started in front of official institutions if they had to have certain disputes. It is not correct when we part ways, or when in that part we are no longer together on a platform which is unfortunately run over by the SDS, not ours, to bring such things up. Once again I say one message in which citizens do not need to worry, their interests will be protected, because there is a SNSD very stable and firm. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17594	The college decided to take a 30-minute break, after which we proceed. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will continue to work. Dear Minister Mirko Šarović applied for the discussion. Here you go, Minister. /Shortly interrupted video/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17596	... I think we're all aware that today they're trying to replace the thesis and some ugly things to take out here on, at the pay phone, and I don't think that's correct. So, as far as SNSD's Club of Representatives is concerned, here's what I can say on behalf of the SDS Club that we will never be against any interest of the RS, because RS is more important to us than ourselves. I think we've confused today and jurisdiction and as soon as we're dealing with who's asking, and we've turned the Council of Ministers into a government, and we all know that BiH institutions that are divided into 2, 3 and more levels have all their responsibilities for the lives of citizens, which should be the most important thing to all of us. What is amazing to me is your courage to take on another burden of responsibility at the level of BiH, and we all in the RS know that you've been carrying that burden there for 7-8 years and before that 2-3, it's already been a decade of rule. I don't think your back is that wide, and here we are, it's going to be time, you're going to show it, and there's a court where we and you and that court will be able to say both about you and us for a year as we have passed by the people, who are more supported by the people. I think the HDZ gentlemen have said a few things that don't stand. We are neither responsible nor responsible for your question, you are responsible and responsible for your questions by binding those flags a long time ago, and after that by signing the Washington Agreement, so this, so what, you've found yourself together in a story with the SNSD and we congratulate you on that. You may have had RS support, and in the future, whether you will have RS support or only the SNSD will see that. With these birds flying into the nest of SNSD, the eagles Mr. Kalabić and these celebrations without, I don't think we should comment on these statements that you've had. I don't think Mr. Magazinović, the first Srbin in this 51% BiH territory stands for some things and a return to the past, I think that you as a young man should turn to the future, Mr. Magazinović, and not by constantly returning some things to the past. These statements about Mr. Boško Tomić and showing us, warning Mirko Šarović that you were somewhere and then when you went somewhere, that's when you were the minister of the PDP government and then you went to SNSD after that, that those same PDPs were doing everything behind your back, believe that this will not be the case, as far as SDS and Mr. Mirko Šarović are concerned. Yeah, it's a pain in the ass today, we've opened up some new chapters, some new topics. Who's going to do and how in the future we're going to see it. I hope that we will all learn a great lesson from this together, which is that in this way we have done today, we do not solve the question of how tomorrow will be better for all BiH citizens. 81 I have remained obliged to tell Mr. Tomić about some of our common matters, which is a distraction through the Finance and Budget Commission and the evaluation of audit reports and crime and corruption, which is in every case of society in BiH, that we have shared all the papers both to the Court and the D.A. and to the SIPA, and I hope that we, even here's what I don't doubt anymore, Mr. Tomić, will work together and the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17597	Thank you. An MP named Saša Bursać signed up for another replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17598	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I'm not going to comment, or I'm not going to replicate these personal insinuations of Mr. Babalj, but I have to when he says this - I admire taking over the responsibility of the SNSD. Yes, it is true, we are responsible and we take full responsibility, we were responsible and then when you removed tariffs from this House and transferred the Minister's Council to the Council of Ministers thinking that Bog would know how long Mirko Šarović would be, Bog will not know how long anyone from the SNSD will be. Knowing that we were responsible, and then we didn't want to pass it on, we thought it was a transfer of jurisdiction because we could definitely prevent anything here that would endanger the RS. So, yes, we take responsibility, we'll certainly be responsible, don't worry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17599	Second replica, MP Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17600	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The replica refers to Mr. Babalj's exposure. I didn't say you four work here, but you don't represent just the SDS, the SDS is a much wider organization. So, I'm sorry I didn't, if you understood it that way it wasn't my intention to say it was one of you, it would be ugly. I'm talking about how it happened in practice and here it was happening to me too, so it doesn't matter. In the election, I showed whether I was right or not as a man, because I got enough votes to win a term without anything, and in that direction, it never occurred to me to accuse one of the four of you here to work, because it would be too ugly. But also those in the SDS that there are who will be happy to be safe, and every one of us if we leave here and from other political parties would be. And secondly, as far as the Finance and Budget Commission is concerned, you know that I'm there as vice president along with Mr. Kabil and others, let them say where and when, anyone from the SNSD opposed that something that's for processing is not going into processing. Here be assured that we stand firmly committed that in all situations, we will in all situations for everything that we believe is not done in the way that the law provides, that we stand behind it to be processed because we are not running away from it. There's no reason to be afraid of it or afraid of it. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17601	Word has Minister Mirko Šarović, 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17602	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs. I hope it won't be that long. Indeed, there may have been little, very few reasons to answer, although my name was mentioned during almost every discussion. And I understand, of course, we're not in the same position, you're probably more comfortable than I am, but I'm not in a situation like this for the first time, and I'd say, in a situation like this, there's a lot behind me, different difficult situations, life situations and situations like this here and my Bog. Whoever wants to be a minister must be prepared for situations like this, as well as my colleagues, or two deputies. Here, anyway, I think it's been very interesting these past two years and I'd say it's exciting to work together with both you and the Council of Ministers, where I've had full cooperation, full cooperation with you. Whether it was MPs from the post, the opposition you certainly never felt the difference with me. Of course, those who, the SNSD MPs, have filed an initiative to replace SDS personnel, so to speak. A lot of things over the 21st, 22 months we've been getting along, but there were reasons where we didn't have the same views of certain things, my Bog. That's perfectly legal and legitimate. It is also a legitimate initiative they have submitted. It is personal to me that it is legal and that it has a majority and that a full procedure is implemented as the law requires. And why there's no reason for me to be a minister at all costs. I'm a minister as long as there's a majority of the parties I belong to in this assembly. And maybe that's better than the beginning, that's how these things were supposed to be set up. That's essential. It was also a problem yesterday at a meeting of the Council of Ministers and my announcements and polemics with, perhaps... talks and discussions with the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Very correct. I had to defend certain attitudes. But I said -- so what, it's not the end of the world, and there's no need if there's no will for the other five parties to have SDS in that majority. And there's the point. And that's clear. If it's not in that majority, because there's no will for certain political reasons, quite all right, it'll be led by most, whether it's 4, 5 or some new 6 parties, quite okay. But I had to defend myself for that argument that was put into the initiative. And on several occasions, I answered. I've even told the chairman that today in front of this House I'm going to ask him something, but I'm giving it up, because there's really very little reason for that at the end. Besides, most of the MPs and parties here, I've heard they don't actually accept the reasons. Well, that's, I'd say, essential to me, and that he'll vote for some other political reasons, and that's fine, I'll take it perfectly. I ran this the Ministry the way I thought best. Maybe I led him in a different way than my predecessors did. I may have demystified him in some way. I may even have discovered it, so surely for some time that it will come, it may be the first to be asked for, perhaps, when this ministry is shared. There's a hundred reasons for that. But this is important to me that those who will vote later do not vote for the reasons of the initiative because then I have to fight for every day, every month, for the past 20 months, and say that I did it. And about the famous laws we're talking about here. I would have to, and I said it yesterday at the Council of Ministers, to say that the reasons that, and there, it stands well that because of not achieving the programmes and plans, that's under number one, the initiative is being launched. And here's this man, who I respect very much, and you know that with what percentage this ministry has done its duties and tasks. So I'll tell you, with 88%. There have been 110 parliamentary questions before you here. 83 Before you, or not before you before the Council of Ministers there were 2,220 and several joint votes with my colleagues from the RS. We didn't have any problems, but that's what I'm saying here, that the reasons are different. So let me say that this ministry has a positive opinion for the first time in years, it'll come here before you and you'll see. But fortunately, and there's a lot more, I didn't have to go out every time and talk about it, but there are a few things that make me want to correct a few facts, so I don't stay that way in the discussion. I consider it necessary, first of all, about the Customs Tariffs Act, amending and supplementing the Law. So, behind that law, I'm standing 100% and I think it's a great law. And, of course, it's quite legitimate for one of you to say it's wrong. What's the problem? I think it's one of the best laws that's been passed in the last few years, and I accept that someone else can dispute that. Customs tariff continues to be adopted by you. She gets adopted at the end of the year. But one thing's the tariff law, and the other's the tariff. I suppose you understand that and you know it. But measures are allowed to help this economy. You want me to show you that support regarding that law, but it wouldn't, it would turn into something else. I just want to make it right about the I.D. Here, there's their consent. So there are documents, and it's important to me that I didn't make a mistake that this Law was not in accordance with the Constitution or the law. And about quality and that maybe it can be better or different, I'm perfectly accepting it. The second fact that was presented here, which is just, I'd say maybe, the authority said, but if it was meant by my Ministry, because it was about greed, I can't really talk about other people's greed for jobs, I want to say, and of course I can prove that in this Ministry since 2007, there have been 113 workers in that section run by my predecessors, you know their names, but there's no need to speak their names, then there have been 113 workers in the Ministry. When I took it over, there were 175 of them, so they were admitted 62 in 4.5 years. And it's okay. And since February 2012, the total of 182, means 7 new workers. That's when it comes to greed, when it comes to this Ministry and, of course, nationalally balanced again. And in the end, one discussion that would have been about like this, that no one in the SDS would have protected me when I was in custody, but that Milorad Dodik was protecting me. I wouldn't really mention his name if it wasn't mentioned in this context. I want to say that he and another person, the Minister of the Council of Ministers, who I don't mention his name to because no one here mentioned him today, are the only ones who didn't want to sign a proposal from a number of intellectuals and officials to let me defend myself from freedom. So much for the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17603	Ladies and gentlemen, I find that there are no more applications under the third item of the agenda. We should now plead out, so we should vote on a proposal to replace BiH's foreign trade and economic relations ministers, BiH Deputy Defence Minister and Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees. The decision we're about to make has been delivered to you. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. 84 I agree that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopted a decision to replace BiH's foreign trade and economic relations ministers, BiH Deputy Defence Minister and Deputy Minister for Human Rights and Refugees. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Discussion Proposal for Decisions for discharge of the Secretary of the Parliamentary House of BiH - Proposers: MPs from the SNSD Club This item was included in the Enlarged College's decision at yesterday's session, as was the previous one, and was initiated at a session on September 19th. I'm opening a debate. First, MP Darko Babalj enlisted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17605	Given the knowledge of the procedure, the objection to you chair. I don't see any requests to include this item in the agenda in front of MPs. What we talked about yesterday at the College, we got from Mr. Mehmedović and we had a promise that he would be on the table from the SNSD gentlemen. I don't think that's there, and I don't even know what we're discussing on this agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17606	The word is from Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17607	I'm sorry that Mr. Šarović is leaving to tell him he wasn't telling the truth, but it doesn't matter, it's not the first time. And it is so for Milorad Dodik, who has stood up for many, who has made thee a stone with bread, and I know what Milorad Dodik did for Mirko Šarović. And it's not very correct, I'm surprised, very correctly he spoke a good part of the discussion, and now he said something that, but is not the point of the agenda. But it's not true what Šarović said. He also silenced those who shut him up, and he silenced those who contributed to it. But now he's not answering to praise those who defended him, the only ones who defended him and spoke publicly about it. We've adopted the agenda. I don't understand my colleague Babalj, it's in the agenda. And now you're going to get a motion for a decision that needs to be made. _________(?) 85 It is, five minutes off, so if I understand that we're clear, then there's a agenda point, and we're going to propose a decision now. Five minutes to split the decision, break, and that's what we're pleading on. If something else wasn't right, I'd like you to take me...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17609	At the request of the SNSD MPs' club, I'm giving a five-minute break. Please come in five minutes because we'll continue at other points. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work today's session. So we're within the fourth item of the agenda. The esteemed Member, Aleksandra Pandurević, applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17611	I thank the chairman. I really must react here to what Mr Kalabić said, as Minister Šarović tells the truth. I'm not protecting Minister Šarović as SDS official, I'm protecting him as someone who's my personal friend and I grew up with and someone I've known my whole life. You see, Mr. Kalabić, when it happened, I was with Minister Šarović's family and with him. And I know what hit them the most. And what affected them was that everyone, but the squad all, signed a petition to allow him to defend himself from freedom except Milorad Dodik, and the other man whose name he didn't want to say here was Nikola Špirić. And you see, Mr. Kalabić, we never wanted to talk about things, and be sure that they will be famous, as the CIA archives are being opened, one day the OHR archives will open, and then they will know that Milorad Dodik has been breaking his head and spine Mirko a Šarović, as someone who is an obstacle to abolishing the RS military. And we didn't expect anything else from Milorad Dodik. And don't worry, Mr. Šarović, we don't need your help, Mr. Kalabić, we don't need your help. Mirko Šarović also survived when you, Mr. Kalabić, stormed the President's Palace in the name of Biljana Plavšić, where he was sitting as RS vice president at the time. I remember perfectly, and I do, and I'll bring you a statement at the next session when he's been removed, when Milorad Dodik, or forced to retire, when Milorad Dodik said hello. And please don't put him in the same context with Milorad Dodik because there is one big insurmountable line between them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17612	Replica, Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17613	We're already in a different situation, and for a second when you were wrong, you called me Šarović, and I'm so bitter for a second, God Bog I'm Šarović, I said it wouldn't happen. When you said it was difficult for the Mirko Šarović family, I understood that it was difficult for them to have a man in prison, not that Milorad Dodik didn't sign some paper. So you're not telling the truth. I guess it was hard for people to have that man in prison, not because someone didn't sign there, which you're also not telling the truth. But I know one thing about pawnage and this isn't the topic from the agenda and the rest of it, as far as I know your discussion when you expelled Radovan from the SDS was different. As far as I know, what now, because the SDS are becoming a little bit of a pro, I'm going to tell you again no matter how much your leader didn't like it, they've got professional nicknames in us, because there's no one left to cry for the deceased then there's a woman crying for him without emotion. And given, she calls for anyone to be assigned a task. We remember all that. What you just said was addressed to Dragan Čavić's account. That's what you told us that Dragan Čavić did in the SDS account, where the story came from. After all, you forced that man out of the party for that. You were saying that he was making lists and that he was doing it skiing in Jahorina with the ambassadors, that he was making lists against these people. Where did Milorad Dodik come from in that story? And when no one was allowed to answer, when you were under pressure, Milorad Dodik was all over RS on the pillars in front of 50,000 people defending Mirko Šarović and saying, and today I say he is unjustly imprisoned. Improperly incarcerated. However, it is not a correct story either Mr. Šarović or you now, Yours in particular, has nothing to do with reality, it is nebulous to fit into something that exactly in the archives and you and I will welcome the story and the time when those archives are opened. There's gonna be a lot of stuff in those archives. And I'm very interested in what's going to be in those archives.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17614	kolega Kalabić, let's try to get everyone back on the agenda and the cameras are gone and we've told everything today, here's really no need to go any further.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17615	Of course, of course. I expected you to warn your colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17616	I may have made a mistake not before, but here.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17617	Okay. I don't need to, because I thought he was going to talk about Serbian Sarajevo and what the local SDS here was worshiping Mirko Šarović and stuff, but here's the thing, we're not going to talk about it anymore, so I guess there's a lot of that story for today.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17618	Replica, MP Milica Marković. Here you go. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17619	Mr. Chairman. We abstained from Mr. Šarović's discussion at his previous point in order to allow this point to end. But what he said at the pay phone here in the middle of Parliament is no less than shameful. Shameful because he speaks not only of Milorad Dodik as SNSD president, but of Milorad Dodik, who is RS president. And the president of the RS is an institution. And you, Miss Pandurević, also say such terrible things, forgetting that the person you speak of is acting as president of the Republic. So when you go from power to authority and someone sends you into opposition, there's no world to you, no institutions, no RS, nothing. And we know your behavior and your role, and that's why it's useful for doctors to say hello to the SDS to go into opposition for a while. It is like a catharsis to you and you should go to opposition because when you enter power and when you get power and function you do not see, you are not holy or RS, nor President, or Government, or Parliament, nothing is sacred to you, it just matters where you are, how many functions and positions you have. It's a sraman what Mr. Šarović said, and he should be ashamed of these words he said at the pay phone, and he said them and then he got up and left. And also yesterday in the media when he said Milorad Dodik was a merchant. That's what to say for the President of the Republic. If he believes that Republika Srpska is his own then the president of the Republic, regardless of his not being elected, and he is, was elected by the SDS, a lot of SDS people voted for Milorad Dodik in 2010. This is shamefully your relations and actions and this is proof that the SNSD has indeed made a mistake when it has allowed you to enter power after these elections in 2010, because we now see that we have made a mistake and now President Dodik is likely to see that he has made a mistake in granting permission to Mirko Šarović as a minister at all in the Council of Ministers. There were people who spoke in the SNSD -- you won't let Mirko Šarović be a minister too. He said--let it be, if it SDS as our partner asks it to be. And to that generosity of his, and to that that he is prepared as a man, and to forgive and to go over certain things, you qualify him like that. Again, it's no problem if you qualify him, although he is, and that's the biggest party in the RS today, and you qualify the president of one such, such a party in this way, means you don't choose a word or an asset, and I'm not saying that the President of the Republic and you absolutely don't choose funds just because you're going into opposition. And you should leave, today was the right decision to send you to the opposition.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17620	Replica, MP Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17621	First, Republika Srpska is not equal to Milorad Dodik or any individual. And to speak of Milorad Dodik does not mean to resort to institutions but to what he does. The fact that Minister Šarović said he was a merchant, so there was a store here tonight that we all know and even promoted him. Because here, up until 15 years ago, he was a smuggler of Croatian Ronhill cigarettes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17622	Ambassador Beriz Belkić has his word. Here you go. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17623	I hope I don't disappoint you, I'll talk about this item on the agenda, and this before, I think it's for memoirs, but here's some people to grade. So I won't be petty about this decision that we got here on the table, there's no explanation. I understand that the position of dom Secretary is not the level of minister etc., but I wanted to say nothing personal, so I wanted to say that this practice is not good that we had on two occasions. So, these political accounts, restructures, etc. I don't think we should touch these services. I know the secretary isn't a civil servant, but I think we should consider protecting these positions from these things in some way, turning them into officials or some other formulation to find, to have a kind of continuity. Having two, three secretaries during one term is very harmful to the work of this House. And I really pray, I know that my discussion won't affect the final outcome of this particular case, but I mean, I'm asking the College to think a little bit through this Rules of Procedure and all that's going on, to try to protect these positions from these situations because of the general interest of this House of Representatives. Here, I had a need to say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17624	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17625	Well, I don't know, maybe we should consider the decision that it's no longer worth reacting to what the esteemed colleague Pandurević is saying, because I think it's been dislocated from time to normal communication. We've been proving it all day because only a few days ago was a colleague of Pandurević talking about Milorad Dodik standing up and standing still. You didn't see that happiness when she got it on the phone, I thought she was talking to the patriarch. She convinced us it was her president, because we thought she was talking about Mladen Bosić, no, she said, about my president. That's what happened. And I was pleased because it's logical that every man in the RS respects the president. That's how we did it. But this kind of low stuff and this kind of nebulosis talk about a man who was correct to you, according to your political party, to call a party president doing his job to a merchant, what will you think of us then? For your information, Miss Pandurević, no one Milorad Dodik spoke to last night. For a month, I have assured you of the democratic capacity of the SNSD in this House, and it has decided today, no talks, no trade. Did we tell you 10 times that we're not trading with anyone about anything? And today people here have said that, if you want normal relationships, they see on the screen as many MPs as they have, so they're logical decisions. And I don't know how you get so much hysteria and why you can't make peace with it, but you insult it, you go down to that level. You came here in the middle of Sarajevo to insult Milorad Dodik. I haven't responded to everything you said in Banja Luka yet, but what you've done now is I mean under every level irreparable, because I don't know how you don't see yourself swearing on Milorad Dodik until yesterday. 90% of your people came to Milorad Dodik's rallys, more applauded Dodik, more fussing and more and ate and drank under tents, were always both of ours and faster and in food and in drink and in noise. And they chose him after all. Do you think that's what one of his colleagues just said, that Milorad Dodik won with a convincing majority of the votes, the SDS people voted for him. Well, it is 89, so I know these SDS guys, they come first for the first sophrase, you can't drive them away for three hours, and then they tell us how we make tents and that story. But I don't think it makes sense. I'll say, I signed up for my colleague Belkić's presentation. I could accept that, to be honest with you, and I think my colleague Belkić's discussion is in place, because these may be awkward situations, and I'll be honest with you. But then we'd have to change part of our procedures and part of our actions. I'm sorry that we came into this situation and Mr. Ninković was part of the SNSD and SDS coalition agreement. SDS was looking for that place. Unfortunately, here I have to be honest, unfortunately here's the situation, it's inevitable, but if you change in some way, maybe we can think about not being the object of this kind of thing, but now it is and there's no choice.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17626	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17627	I will briefly hope that this part of the discussion of the SDS and SNSD will also be transferred to the RS, but just a reminder, to remind you of the relationship you had with the institution of the president of Republika Srpska when it was, say, Nikola Poplašen. If you want me to describe it to you, I could do it very vividly, but I don't want to take the time, you just remember yourself and find yourself a mirror somewhere and look at yourself, and see what it looks like.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17628	Thank you. Discussion, distinguished colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17629	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. This Decision, which has been proposed on the resolution of the Secretary of the House of Representatives, as opposed to the one you just made, if you make this decision, will be a decision that is based on the Constitution, in the Rules of Procedure. It is not based either on the Constitution or on the Rules of Procedure, and you will see it; I have warned you all along that you have made a decision on the replacement of a minister which you could not have made without the decision of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, but my Bog. This will unfortunately be in accordance with the Constitution. I got up to say what Mr. Beriz Belkić said, so I also think that these people shouldn't be part of political dealings, should be civil servants and do their job, but here, the situation is the way it is. I also stood up to tell Mr. Ninković that he was a correct associate and I thank him for what he was doing as a secretary, because I'm connected to the Constitutional Commission, the Constitutional Commission mostly for the Secretary of the House of Representatives, and it's okay for me to say that in this place. That's it, thank you. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17630	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17631	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Well, not to be unsaid, so we understand this as part of the process that we're going into, and unfortunately this refers to a wider package of people. So, except for the minister and the two deputies and the other positions we've been deciding on, which is the secretary of the House of Representatives. I, on behalf of the SDP Club, want to thank Mr Ninković and to express my satisfaction in the time in which we worked together and I sincerely hope that there will be opportunities and in the coming period to cooperate in one way or another.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17632	Thank you. Darko Babalj, what's this about, replica, discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17633	Whatever. So I just want to thank Bojan Ninković first of all on behalf of the SDS Club. We are all aware of the situation and responsibilities in which he was here, that no remark from any of this Parliament has been addressed to him. We were proud of his work. It's a young, promising man, no fear for him or his abilities. I hope we'll be here in some future period, I don't hope, but I know for sure we'll be working together again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17634	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate. I am putting the decision on the resolution of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Secretary of Parliament's House of Representatives for the vote. Please prepare. You can vote now. For 22, against 10, abstentions 3, sufficient entity majority. I realize this is a decision we adopted. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, unless someone has some other suggestions, you want to take a break, take an extended college, see if we can continue this session tonight or interrupt and continue for another day. How's the mood? 91 [[Common discussion]] Appointment Expanded College in O.R. 2 [[II and a 15-minute break.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17636	Ladies and gentlemen, in the meantime, we held a session of the Expansive College of the House of Representatives and we reached a unanimous conclusion to continue our work, but to work from point 18 to 26, and those points that remained between, we agreed on points 5 to 17 to continue, so to continue these points at 10:00 p.m., this was the position of all clubs. So please, before we move to point 18, I suggest that the House... take these items from the 18th to the 26th agenda, so it's a matter of giving consent to ratifying agreements and contracts, to bring together a debate on these points. Vote now. I find that, unanimously, of these present ones, we have adopted this proposal. Ad. 18. - 26. Granting consent for ratification of agreements and contracts I'm opening a debate on points 18 to 26. Is anyone answering for a discussion? There are no reports. Please prepare to vote. I remind you, of course, that you have received the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Commission. Prepare yourselves, therefore, for a vote to give consent to ratify agreements and contracts. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17640	What's the problem, aren't you going to vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17641	...we were all present at the College if so.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17642	And it's all clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17643	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17644	It's just not you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17645	Well, here's me. Now let me ask because I don't get it. Did we have a fine agreement to vote from 17th to 26th? We did. Are we...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17646	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17647	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17648	Come on, let's get this over with, buddy Babalj. He's got a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17649	If we're not then say we're not and it's not a problem, here I think we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17650	Comrade Kalabić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17651	Are we tired or what's wrong with us? We agreed at the College that after all the proposals tonight we would be doing ratifications, those are points 18 to 26. Laws, reports, everything else we leave for Monday. So tonight's ratification from 18th to 26th, that's the position of the Kolegijum. So from, maybe if someone's emboldened, don't now if SDS is an opposition to putting them on the wrong agenda, so if you're comparing the points of ratification... 93 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm being very polite, very polite. So if we make one deal...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17653	Try at the end of this session to concentrate as much as possible without any difficult words that can be interpreted in different ways.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17654	Well, we're not here for marbles. We're not kids.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17655	Here you go, Comrade Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17656	I'm looking at you and my colleagues who were sitting in Hall 2/II five minutes ago. I think I am tired but I'm not retarded, following a discussion from 18th to 26th Mr. Bojan Ninković said we can put that story in point 17. Based on his discussion, we all agreed on it. So, all I'm talking to you about is the chairman and I don't have amnesia, I don't have amnesia, here's Mr. Belkić talking – that's right, right, that's right. And don't make me look like a fool, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17657	Is anyone else picking up?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17658	Can I?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17659	Here you go, colleague Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17660	I'm sorry, I was already on my way out of the O.R. when there was a talk about it and my previous proposal, because I suggested that we put some more points to the vote here, there was a ratification of the agreement. The only problem with point 17 is that it is different from the ratification of the agreement from 18 to 26. This is about the College report they need from the RS or the Federation to be against. So leave that item on the agenda and let us vote on it when the time comes, it's different from... ratification of the agreement. That's the whole story.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17661	I hope we've explained it now. Here you go, Comrade Babalj. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17662	Mr. Živković was correct, so I don't have amnesia, we talked about her, this is something else we can agree on.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-10-24-0.u17663	Please prepare now, so we vote from 18th to 26th of the agenda. Vote now. I find that we have a general and entity majority, that we have given consent to ratifying agreements and contracts. I remind you once again that we have a session Monday at 10:00 p.m. I'm sorry, please take your positions, we have to vote, but it's still more than 24 hours. Just a little more attention. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. Monday at 10:00, who's in? I find that the House of Representatives has decided that Monday's session is due at 10:00 p.m. Session aborted at 6:10 p.m.
