ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18676	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, Mr Džaferović, I am opening the 58th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence was justified by MPs: Božo Ljubić, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, and the delay was announced by MPs Salko Sokolović and Ismeta Dervoz, but as far as I can see, Mrs Dervoz is here. According to the Service's information, the session is present at the moment of 33 MPs. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. When it comes to changes and additions to the session agenda, I would like to mention the following. Add to the agenda: Point 1. Confirmation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers' decision to appoint ministers and deputy ministers to the BiH Council of Ministers. Point 12. Consideration: (a) MP Milorad Živković's resignation as a member of the Interresor Working Group for the preparation of amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law; (b) appointment of MP Darko Babalj as member of the Interresor Working Group for the preparation of amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law (instead of MEP Milorad Živković). Point 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Co-operation in 2010. Point 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Co-operation in 2011. The previous agenda has been removed from point 7. Proposal for a Law on the Rights of Cake Victims – Proposers: MPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić (first reading), due to the lack of opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Nations and the competent Joint Commission for Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, migration, refugees, asylum and ethics. Therefore, it is a special procedure prescribed by Article 102. Rules of Procedure when proposing MPs or committees of the House. 2 Point 8. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH – the proposal of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was complemented by the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which is negative. I am opening a debate on the proposed agenda and it is up to the deputy chairman, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18677	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I think they all got it, because yesterday, on time, the draft law, the Electoral Law, was submitted, more specifically, the amendment law and the additions of the BiH Election Law to the 127th member of the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to put a few arguments here why I don't think this is in conflict with the Rules of Procedure and why I think we need to put this point on the agenda today. In fact, I think an emergency procedure is necessary because we can come into a position if we don't adopt this proposal, to vote on, in my opinion, against the law in the second reading, the electoral law proposed by the SDS. To remind you, the Constitutional Court, when resolving the question of double names of cities in the RS, said in its report that the opinion that the state-level legislator had not followed the new legislation in the RS in relation to the new names of cities and municipalities and thus violated the rule of law of Article 1.2. The BiH Constitution, which includes respect for applicable laws and practices in accordance with them. I would like to remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia also adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Slovenia, July 2012, the Official Messenger and the one who says that Article 24 paragraph 1 changes and reads – The cities of the Republic of Slovenia are Banja Luka, Bijeljina, Doboj, East Sarajevo, Prijedor and Trebinje. On the same principle, as the Constitutional Court said, the laws of entities, i.e. those organisational units in BiH, which have the authority to lay down regulations under their jurisdiction, must be respected under the same principle of this bill if we adopt in this form in the second reading we will violate the Constitution according to that same principle. That is why I propose that this Parliament should not be in a position to vote on the unconstitutional law that is currently here. If he couldn't fix himself with the amendments, first of all, would he allow four amendments to be applied to only one member? One amendment, and you can follow it from the bill that I have submitted, concerns that it is changing and it is not being added, and that the cities of Banja Luka, Prijedor and that I do not list any further, according to the Law adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, it was not possible to act on another member who is very important, as regards Article 20.13. To remind me, RS Election Law says - nine multi-member electoral units are set out for the election of 63 parliamentary seats. In the current Electoral Law, there remained a decree which was not deleted or was put out of force to work on six multi-member electoral units, and that the number of MPs that are received directly, or compensated, was distributed differently. I ask – is it possible to call the elections and to adopt this in the second reading of the SDS proposal, and that it remains an old provision in the Law of Election BiH, which has not been amended, and the Law has changed in the RS that treats multi-member electoral units. 3 Therefore, it was not possible for the Constitutional Commission to act on this Law because it did not treat that member. I'm aware that this is a precedent in the sense of including the Law by 127 if it's a similar matter, because it's not the same matter. But, colleagues, I'm questioning you all, is it better to find a way for this House not to vote on the obvious counter-constitutional proposals of the law or to find a way to solve this solution comprehensively and not to get the Constitutional Court to reconsider the laws that we have proposed here? I won't talk about it any further. If I wanted this to be a surprise, I could've done it right now, and I wanted to, and I did it on an extended college, and I had everyone look at it and we could discuss the essence of this. And the bottom line is whether this Parliament will be in a position to vote on a constitutional bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18678	I thank my colleague Živković. I remind you, therefore, that the time foreseen for discussion within the agenda is up to three minutes, noting that, within this point, you can only suggest a new item of the agenda or download a point. We will not allow any debate in the context of the debate on the agenda. This doesn't apply to anyone personally. The word has an MP, Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18679	So I expect to have an opportunity here to say, a series of these qualifications regarding the proposal for a new agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18680	We can talk about new points within the agenda, or download some points of the agenda. That's what the Rules of Procedure says.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18681	And I can't tell you what this is...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18682	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18683	So please, so I'd just warn on point 101. A Rules of Procedure which stipulates that, while the law is in the procedure, it cannot be similar or the same law passed by anyone. And I wouldn't elaborate any further. Just to remind you what was the purpose of this law today on the agenda. The aim was to unblock the elections, not to correct all irregularities that are in that Law and all that needs to be corrected on a variety of other grounds, and which will be corrected on the basis of the Commission which was formed to propose fundamental amendments to the Electoral Law. I'm just saying, that the story of cities, how unconstitutional it is, above all, the Constitutional Commission should give its consent and its opinion whether or not something is in line with the Constitution, and all of them, I think it was unanimous on the Constitutional Commission that this 4 law, this proposal, is in the balance with the Constitution, including the voice that the SNSD member in that Commission gave for the constitutionality of that Law. So we're not preventing anyone from proposing their changes. We will participate in new changes and grooming of the Election Law, but this is the goal of unblocking. Banja Luka was a city according to both the Constitution and the laws before this now last law that you mention. Also, only two cities were in RS, eastern Sarajevo and Banja Luka. And this Law does not mention Banja Luka separately as a city, but is mentioned in a group of municipalities. So no one complained why Banja Luka was classified as a group of municipalities, and now it calls for a constitutional basis and that citizens are dissatisfied. Our intensities are to unblock the Electoral Law, to ensure that there is a choice, and then in peace, without blackmail, to enter into a debate over the improvement and completion of the Election Law. We don't mind. Here's what we can suggest is that in these general changes, these broader changes define all of what you're talking about. But by the act of supporting this law today, we're actually unblocking the election process for next year, because experience tells us that when we enter into a law debate like this, there's no way we can do it without blackmail and without a normal atmosphere to come to a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18684	Thank you. So, I treat my colleague Bosić's discussion as an contribution to the argument why this proposal should not be accepted today in the agenda, but I do call on all MPs to, at the beginning of the session, regardless of what we now have a slightly larger presence of cameras, we are not making any plays, there are people who have explained the proposals. It's enough for one or two of the club to do it, not to open up the agenda and we have 21 very important agenda points to finish today. Ambassador Lazar Prodanović has applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18685	Mr. Chairman, since my esteemed colleague Bosić called me, I would like to say what my motives were to vote for the constitutional basis and the principles of the law in the first reading, which they proposed. First of all, Mr. Bosić, I believed that the ignorance, which has been shown to the maximum, would be corrected in the amendment phase of this Law. Unfortunately, you had a chance yesterday in the second reading, in the competent commission there was only one word instead of being changed from and nothing else. But I'm going to tell you very, very specific things that need to be examined by this House, which are happening here. How is it possible for me here in both my left and my right hand to have on the protocol recorded under the same number of laws that are completely, which is completely different? So I'm asking the College to examine who's working in the office and who's doing this kind of abuse? One is slightly better because he foresees transitional and final provisions and corrected the town, or Sokolac Opština in the third constituency and the other had neither transitional nor final provisions, nor had Sokolac Opština in the constituency. The second question is whether the SDS respects the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the RS, which is the subject of the BiH Constitutional Court's ruling under the Electoral Law, which applies to the BiH Election Law. If I respect it, then it clearly states that the towns of RS, as it is said, are Banja Luka, Prijedor, Doboj, Bijeljina and Trebinje, and that the town of East Sarajevo, so there are 5 organisational units with several local self-governments that make up, therefore, something similar to that of Sarajevo in the Federation, i.e. in Canton of Sarajevo. If they respect it then it should be applied. And secondly, since you have called on us to transfer jurisdiction, do you gentlemen respect the election law of the RS which clearly says that the electoral unit, neither do I, from 1 to 9 make you and these cities or those municipalities, is here just analogous to making the electoral unit, that there are three constituencies with 9 directly assigned mandates. So this law is irreparable. This Law is also irreparable in principle where you did not ask to delete Article 20.13. paragraphs 2 and 3. relating to multi-member electoral units and a direct and indirect way of choosing, the election of these MPs in 9 constituencies. So that is, so I suggest that point 4. be removed because it is a disgrace to the MPs of the RS, a disgrace to this Parliament, and I believe that this law does not look anything like anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18686	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18687	That an emergency session is scheduled after this session, that the draft law be adopted by an emergency procedure proposed by Mr. Živković and that an emergency session of the House of Peoples be sought. Don't tell us, just one more...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18688	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18689	I'm finishing up. Don't tell us someone's against the election. We're not for legal cartoons. So, to schedule tomorrow's session of the House of Peoples, and this afternoon to adopt.../understandable/... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18690	I thank Mr. Prodanović. The Republic has an MP, Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18691	I thank the chairman. Well, I'm obliged to react, since we're making a decision based on arguments. I guess here's the relaxing situation that we all showed last time that we're for the election, that we're for the election law, today's the fight to preserve the dignity of this House, to be the law that looks like something. It is not the correct conclusion of Mr. Bosić, and it must not be as a way of conduct, it is not true that the Constitutional Commission assesses the constitutionality of the law, it is not true. Many laws were passed by the Constitutional Court after the Constitutional Commission established a constitutional basis. Because people who aren't here lawyers... and our colleague Džaferović was above, the main face in this country, and he knows that's not true. The Constitutional Court is the only one in charge of assessing the constitutionality. The Constitutional Court as much as it told us yesterday that we couldn't, because if the MPs hadn't folded the tabak and the Constitutional Court, the elections for, in the essential sense, for Gradiška or Bosnia Gradiška would have been the same, in the essential sense. So there's six here, the moment the Constitutional Court said we had to respect it. Whether the citizens of Banja Luka, Bijeljina or Trebinja will come out with a petition and say – we will not go to the election for the president of the municipality, but for the mayor because it is our constitutional right and so it says in our law. That's what we're talking about. Because as many people told us yesterday that we must respect it, the Constitutional Court told us so. And this is just our goodwill to have this without emotion, without a word, to make this right. No, for a reason more, the story of postponing the election has fallen, because we showed the last time – we want elections, but that it looks like Parliament and the way out, that the laws that come out of this Parliament are not, as Col. Prodanović said, there is an expert lawyer here, a doctor of science, everyone who can say if we can do this. If we can go to the Constitutional Court with this and if anyone guarantees, I withdraw my word. But how much yesterday the same matrix, the same form, because it says – you have to respect the level of jurisdiction of those who bring and enter it into a higher legal act. And we're under now, this is just a wish to help, we're on a salutation charge that we want something completely different, which is not true. This is how we respect the laws of the RS and respect the integrity of this House, that there are laws out of it that we will not have tomorrow, so it's not in order for anyone to break our laws every day and do it on such trivial things? There are more legally complex formulas that, question, it's for experts, but this is so trivial that there's only a little bit of goodwill missing to sit down and solve this issue. And Mr. Živković made a well-intentioned contribution that we can do so and then we are assured that we have no problems with the Constitutional Court either. And I would remind you that the theoretical possibility of the Constitutional Court reacting to this in May, to react in May, is causing us great problems. The Constitutional Court if it responded to the names of the name and this is some sort of provision of the RS law that must be entered into this Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18692	Correction of the wrong allegation that could be the cause of the misunderstanding. Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18693	First, I would like to ask you to hold a session in accordance with this Rules of Procedure,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18694	I just told you what it says in the Rules of Procedure, quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18695	that we are all here keeping the integrity of this Parliament and keeping an eye on the dictionary that we are using. I won't quote all the words used here, but please, we really won't be participating in this circus from the SDS Club, and every time we're insulted, we'll be forced to leave the session and not participate in any further work. And for colleagues who use such a dictionary, let it really be on their cheeks. As the Honorable President Bosić said, on the basis of article 101. The law directed by Mr. Živković can only be in the procedure of standing still until we see the outcome of the vote on our bill. You know, we've all seen various arguments here in the past few months. First, there was one printing error, a lecturing error, and there was supposed to be an amendment, and that's what the SNSD claws were looking for. Then why is there no election units for the National Assembly, so why is the law called, says we've had a lesson here last time why the law is called the bill supplementing the law. And the same is true of our ignorance. Those who honor our ignorance, I would ask them to read Article 48. Uniform rules for making legal rules in BiH institutions. Just because this is our first term, we're trying to read something, from the Constitution, through the acts, and on and on. If we are already calling for constitutionality, today we have a first item of the agenda on which the Constitutional Court declares itself in five days. What if the BiH Constitutional Court says that what this Parliament has done is unconstitutional? Does that mean you're playing with these people here, their dignity? What are we going to do in that case, gentlemen, if we're going to be principled to the end? And yet, to all of this you've talked about, you've had the opportunity to put in an amendment, you have the opportunity to, and one amendment can be fixed if you want, you have the opportunity to act in the House of Peoples too, so I don't really know, if someone thinks this is politics, what we're playing at, then poor Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18696	The Republic has a vice-president, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18697	Thank you. Let's do these things one by one. So now we're talking about this bill of election, and we'll come to the Council of Ministers, you'll see what we have to say about it. Let's go one by one. My colleagues and colleagues, I don't know if there has been a situation so far, here are the people who have been here longer than I have in Parliament, that the Constitutional Court says there's no provision in the legal sense? Does the Constitutional Court have the right, by saying that this provision does not apply, to delete that provision from the law? Is the Constitutional Court a legislator? Does this Parliamentary Assembly alone have the right to change, add and delete members? The Constitutional Court didn't say he deleted this member. The Constitutional Court said he was no longer valid. For this reason this is not written – an article is added, because it has not been deleted. The Constitutional Court has no right to do that. It's written here that it changes. And few who read more, not just individual members, but a little more members, know that these are things that are being solved for future situations in which we cannot give the Constitutional Court the right to be legislators and to take away the right of this Parliamentary Assembly. Do people who do these things know how much damage they do to the RS and how much damage they do to parliamentary democracy, giving someone else the right to do it for them? I'll remind you one more time, it's undeniable that a law like this that's on second reading as item number four is counter-constitutional. If such a law is passed and is adopted tomorrow and in the House of Nations in this form, do not worry, it will surely be sent to the Constitutional Court to examine its constitutionality, and I wonder what will happen if the Constitutional Court, by its decision, and which it has already done with the double names of the RS, says it is unconstitutional? There's no choice, pal. There's no choice. And another thing, I ask – how can the Election Commission call elections for RS if the BiH Election Law says that it stands as a member of six multi-member election units and the RS has changed the law? And, dear colleagues, let me tell you, in the article, the position of 3rd Election Unit 3 consists of the City of Banja Luka and municipalities, etc., it has already inserted the City of Banja Luka, and it has failed... the cities, because it was in the third month, and in the sixth month the others were named – the city. And this will do this for the RS and other cities. And as parliamentarians who are at BiH level, we need to know that there is another law, the Law on the territorial organisation of the RS that has already done so. And if we're making the law, we have to obey that law, and because we come from the RS, and because we're legalists and we respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, if nothing else. Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18698	Replica, Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18699	Well, I'm really sorry, I didn't expect this kind of thing, not to say that I don't call her ugly, the situation is causing this, because we've dealt with it very easily so far. The people who found themselves in this, they took the intervention, we moved on. However, this is one situation that I do not know how to do, I am obliged in the end because of those who do not know the right to say and to react – I cannot replace the Constitutional Court. A message is being sent that we are the Bog of the Bog here. Tomorrow, from some community, they're going to tell some commission that it's above the Constitutional Court. So that's what we're talking about. Have our people told us, finished, but there's an institution that says, why have we come to this situation? Well, there's a lot of laws down at the Constitutional Court, and they've been through all this. And I guess it's clear that we're not you, no matter what anyone wants to turn it into something else. And that was our message, we found ourselves in this where we met, not to repeat what Mr. Prodanović said, and earlier it did not serve the honour of Parliament, the chairman promised to investigate the issue about the office and about it. It's a very dangerous situation, if it happens and if it can happen, that one of us out there, it's a specific situation that one of us is changing there, but right now, the sheets. It's not a theme now. But I repeat, if it's obvious that some of them, and all of them are using their rights to the Constitutional Court, to which we will not and cannot and have no right to react, to use, and to use it, and to use it, whether we will deafen ourselves to the things I understand, everyone admits. Nobody slows this down. I see that here is only a dispute over how to resolve it. I cannot accept that the resolution is the adoption of an unconstitutional law. Let's look for other solutions, get out of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18700	My opinion is that there was enough argument in favor of this issue being on the agenda, as we heard and counter-argumentation, why it should not be on the agenda. I see three replicas. I call for all of you to give up the replicas, and all of these discussions will be strictly conducted, which I see four reported, in accordance with Article 65. And he's just saying that you can discuss the agenda if you want to suggest a new agenda item or leave out an optional agenda item. I warn, therefore, that I will be forced to interrupt the discussions coming out of the business framework. Let's take it in a row. Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18701	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18702	Here you go, colleague Belkić. Business has an advantage.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18703	I really think there's been plenty of time, here and not exactly respecting the Rules of Procedure, and replicas and discussions, etc., past the subject. So, the man suggested the agenda point, we heard arguments, one, the other, and let the people not really move on. There are several agenda points in the 9th session today that allow all of what you want to say here and say there, starting with this first one, and until the amendments and additions of the Election Law, etc. This really doesn't make sense. I mean, Chairman, don't give me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18704	I thank Mr. Belkić for supporting this approach of mine. Mr. Bosić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18705	Please, we're discussing something defined by the Rules of Procedure. So, the law is in the process of second reading, it's been through everything, all the legal acts, it's passed the amendment phase, it's gotta be on today, so we can't even pull the Rules of Procedure. The same Rules of Procedure cannot be put in place until the procedure for this Act, similar to or the same Law, is completed, and I ask you to implement the Rules of Procedure, so that we do not carry out any further discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18706	Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18707	Well, here, I quite agree with what you said. A kolegica of Pandurević when she spoke, but you know what, if the Constitutional Court were all of the SDS, that dream of yours wouldn't come true. Because you'll agree, you don't need a lawyer or an SDS, that the SDS, or SNSD, or a Srbin, or a Hrvat, needs a professional, an expert who will. If by any chance the legislative sector had worked for you, this law could never have happened. And like some mice, they ran there to change this. I am now asking plainly – do you believe that in RS is the town of Prijedor or is the municipality of Prijedor, is Bijeljina, a matter of principle... is Bijeljina a town or a municipality? Is Trebinje a city or a municipality and Doboj a city or a municipality? I agree with Banja Luka. And for East Sarajevo, I agree long before that. So in that sense, I believe that this point 4 should be removed from the agenda of voting against the law and adopted this by an emergency procedure, either in this procedure or in this session of the previous. That's what I was going to say, so when you apply to some rules, some experiences, consult a lawyer. I don't need no Srbin lawyer, I need a professional lawyer, anyone from anywhere in the world. Unfortunately, you, I have the impression, you haven't even consulted your lawyer who's great, I'm convinced of that, Ognjen Tadić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18708	So, let me remind you. Of course, now we're going to get to the bottom of this, and I'm convinced we're going to respect the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. And it would not be good to repeat the discussions and attitudes we have already heard. poslanica Pandurević has a replica. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18709	On behalf of the club, we're looking for a break for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18710	At the request of the SDS Club, 15 minutes. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will continue to work. We discuss the agenda, no more replicas, we have three discussions. In accordance with Article 65. The Rules of Procedure have already indicated that we are solely asking to be discussed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in this part of the session. Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18712	Mr. Chairman, I don't think the bill proposed by Mr. Živković on an urgent procedure meets the basic procedural conditions for today to be on the agenda. And that's why I'm voting against including this law in the agenda. And allow me just one sentence, I will not say anything except to read once again the careful provision of Article 9.3.c) of the Law proposed by the SNSD gentleman, and only some parts. They suggested that constituency 3 consist of municipalities, so the number of municipalities among them was the Eastern Ilidz, Eastern Stari Grad, East New Sarajevo and numerous other municipalities, and then the towns of Trebinje and East Sarajevo said. I, as far as I know, East Sarajevo is contained in these above municipalities. These are election units, the basic electoral units, and here they have to come basic... there's an extra city in this provision, and I ask you to pull this back to this proposal to find a solution, that we have a prepared state for next year's election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18713	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18714	Another replica, deputy chairman Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18715	Obviously, here, the stronger the arguments are that it's worse by the arguments and that it's more important to do business or that it's more important to explain something else, right? I also think that the esteemed colleague Džaferović also read the explanation, I hope that you have read in the explanation why the Municipality of East Sarajevo, that is, the City of East Sarajevo and why the municipalities are listed above. Because it's the only one, the only city in the RS that has municipalities and the rest of the cities don't, which doesn't mean they won't have any in the future. I've had my doubts, I could probably use your help to say if I should have just made it known to be the City of East Sarajevo, and I have to list it because it's according to the territorial organisation of the RS, and I have to specify the municipalities that belong to that city, and so nothing was done against the constitution. If it's just a grudge to this law here, I think we have a solution, unless 11 here is a big fear. It's just that it's not a fear of whether there's going to be an election, because we've shown this one that we're for the election, this bill that you have on the fourth item of the agenda is against the election, under this law cannot be called elections. The fear here is that someone is afraid that the law written in OHR's offices should not be voted against. How many times have we, gentlemen MPs and colleagues, faced laws written in an office somewhere out there, and we had trouble voting for them. Let us show that with our knowledge, we will not vote against the Constitution of BiH, we will not vote against the decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH, we will not vote against the law of the RS, the Election Law and the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Slovenia, we will not underestimate this Parliament and vote for a better law. And procedurally, as we could agree on many things, I believe that we can also agree on this, if we are all convinced that it is for good purposes, that this Parliament does not vote unconstitutionally, does not vote against the interest of the RS, adopt a better law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18716	The word has an emissary, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18717	...the accounts of the Rules of Procedure. Member, the Rules of Procedure are clear, article 64 says they are also a member of the 65th mandatory agenda, that they cannot be left out. Dear colleagues within this mandatory agenda item may give their opinion. Article 101. The Rules of Procedure also regulate whether two of the same proposals can be found or similar. And please, the thing is quite clear. When the agenda point proposed by the SDS comes up, please choose your colleagues to discuss, we have no objection, but please stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18718	So, I find that no business provision has been broken. Parliament...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18719	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18720	You just called from the scene and broke the Rules of Procedure, and now if I were to strictly respect it, I'd have to give you a warning. However, to bring the ball down to the ground, so the House of Representatives, I am convinced, will eventually be declared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. In the meantime, I cannot forbid anyone from expressing their position or possibly replicating certain allegations in accordance with Article 65. Representative Saša Magazinović reported on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18721	The Honorable Chairman. In accordance with article 65, like everyone before me, I'll say a few words. It is true, therefore, that we compare several facts, that the SDS did not comply with the laws in force in the RS. It is also true that SDS has made the cities of Banja Luka, Prijedor, Bijeljina, Doboj, Trebinje, East Sarajevo this Law of the Municipality. I am sorry that we did not notice this failure earlier at the Constitutional Commission session, but as counterpart Kalabić said, neither the Constitutional Commission is the Constitutional Court nor the Constitutional Court can only say what is constitutional and what is not. However, I want to say 12 that the SDS has created an atmosphere that does not vote on the law they have proposed but votes on who is for the elections and who is against the elections. Therefore, we will support the law of the SDS when it comes to the agenda, since it is a mandatory point and it is, it will surely come to a statement, and then let them explain in these six cities why they have declared them municipalities. And will it later be corrected by the MPs or by the Constitutional Court? I repeat again we are not members of the Constitutional Court that we evaluate what is constitutional and what is not. Where the law is written I don't know who wrote it either, but I believe it was written by our people to know that the city of Banja Luka, but that's another topic. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure do not allow us to have two laws of the same content at the same time in the procedure, and that is one of the reasons why we are going to declare today that things are now on SDS law, and what fate he will experience further remains to be seen and remains to see whether perhaps such a missing law has been deliberately proposed for someone to try to manipulate the elections. We'll do everything we can to make sure it doesn't come to that.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18722	Mato Fanjičević has a correction to the wrong allegation that could be the cause of the misunderstanding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18723	It could absolutely be the cause of the misunderstanding of counterpart Magazinović's allegations that an atmosphere was created by which no acceptance or declaration against SDS's bill was taken as a plea against holding elections. The HDZ is against the SDS proposal and will be against any proposal which in a selective way approaches the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning electoral legislation. But we believe that in this way we are absolutely not against the election, on the contrary, we are in such a position, so we are pushing for full implementation of the Constitutional Court decisions concerning all decisions concerning electoral legislation, and we are just trying to affirm an approach to allow BiH to hold elections at all levels and across the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18724	And last reported, as part of the debate on the agenda, MP Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18725	Whoever says it's the last one might just be a replica now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18726	Let us hope.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18727	So, Mr. Chairman, let me say a few words. So this example, which we have today in the agenda with the Law that the SDS has run for and which we have in the second reading, is a real example of how politics quickly comes into a twist situation. And I now, today when we adopt this, actually those who adopt this proposal that has been run by the SDS, is the real example and evidence that just by adopting this law is very certain and likely there will be no choice next year. Now you laugh all you want, we could laugh, or it's not funny, it's a sad 13-dose dose of hypocrisy that you're putting out of the SDS Club that it's just degutantly anything after that, but of course this is about serious things. So, the law, the SNSD Club argues that the law which today, if this Parliament adopts, will certainly be counter-constitutional and that we will have a situation with this Law that the National Assembly and the institutions of the RS will immediately apply to the Constitutional Court to appreciate the constitutionality of this Law. And last time we talked about this kind of a partial approach, not a comprehensive approach, which was the commission's task to do, you were saying, what a commission, if it isn't this Law, has no choice. Now we say from the SNSD, we have also shown by the proposal that fellow Živković has made that we want elections, of course we will, but this, adoption of this law will certainly lead to the election being questioned. And the question is how, that is, when the Constitutional Court declares the constitutionality of this Law, then we will see where we are. And you are today calling for a commission and you are putting the situation..., of course, the SNSD will not participate, but today you are bringing Parliament into the situation to adopt a proposal for this law which is so bad, so false that tomorrow the Commission has to sit down to correct and correct this law, and it is impossible to correct or correct it, because it has so much inadequacy that it is simply, there is no such thing, there will be more amendments than the members you have proposed in the amendments to this law. So this is very, I, for seven years in this House, have not yet remembered that this House has passed a law on which it must sit immediately tomorrow to change and repair. This will be a precedent in this House. How will the People's House react? But the bill proposed by counterpart Živković and which requires that we do not say that two of the same laws can be found in the agenda, but the way this Parliament knocks down this bill that SDS has run for a better and better solution, which is the solution offered by Mr Živković. So you don't have to laugh too much about this situation today, you who are laughing at the SDS, because it could be very sad for you next year, and you've already said and said that it will be very sad for you if next year there's no choice. But obviously you're making such an ambience yourself and you're creating as you've already proven that in this situation people, here's what the SDP said, are determined for elections or against elections. And the fact that his colleague Magazinović said that the SDS did not respect RS laws and that he made the municipalities in his proposal, so he really said the original thing, we from the SNSD have nothing to add to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18728	Thank you. Is a fellow Bosić necessary replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18729	Yes, it is. I mean, first of all, I don't think you respected my request to end this debate and this turned out to be a debate about the bill. I don't know what you're going to discuss afterwards, after this debate, so the whole debate has been held here, but also about one law and another.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18730	Well, yeah, and the conclusion is that the extended College, where you've been, is that we're going to have that debate here, so since we didn't have a consensus here, here we are, just so we know. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18731	Well, but you see, so it's a clear situation for me, and now we've heard that SNSD, so under the auspices of the National Assembly where it controls most of them, is going to file a complaint to the Constitutional Court and try again to block the conduct of the election. We invite you to participate in a good election law solution, not to block it in these ways. After all, there is a House of People to make changes that should be, you have a chance to put your law into the next congregation. I don't see what we talked about here for sure an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18732	Replica, MP Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18733	Well, I told you this wasn't gonna be the last thing I did. So, I failed to say in the discussion, and now I'm going to say, like, laws like this, changes to the law as SDS has run for office are a real example of how foreign lawyers make laws in BiH. This is, therefore, an original example of what they have been given to run here, not taking care of the relationship between BiH and entities and legislation, or hierarchy in a legislative way. And as for postponing the election, Mr. Bosić, we will not use the National Assembly to postpone the election. We've already told you several times we're going to rush the elections to confirm that opposition by 2018, you'll have it safely after the October elections next year. But we want through the Constitutional Court to prove to you in court that you run against the laws of this House, that's what we want. And what the Constitutional Court is going to say, we now invite you not to do this, so let's do things right and quality to not come to the Constitutional Court. But you think only your proposal is the green light for the election and no one else's. Here you go, do it, we won't take part in it. And what's it going to come to in the Constitutional Court, and we'll see.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18734	Two replicas Mr. Kalabić had, but the debate did not. Here's your colleague Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18735	Well, Mr. Chairman, a little bit of a grudge to you too, is fatigue, but you're still having two sessions today, it's rarely happening, and I understand from that side of you, but you were just countering my proposal yesterday at an extended college asking for a debate to be held now. I suggested at the extended college that we handle it yesterday, that we get out of this slowly without anyone even hearing or knowing whether or not I was, as the host hides some shame in the house.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18736	And there wasn't much for that proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18737	Well, but the proposal was for everyone to open up the debate right now, and that's what I'm talking about and because everyone in that thing, everybody, and now some of them are pouring ashes like they don't remember what they suggested yesterday and now they're looking for. So, we just decided to open up that debate, that's what we should have told people. So, just for the reason of this because it's trying here, it's all clear here, so the SNSD club is behind the proposal, we're not dealing with, of course it's a discussion, we can't avoid it, we're trying to put 15 of Mr. Živković's proposals on the agenda, not take down the SDS proposal, I guess that's clear. Our discussions are going that way, not to take that down. And that's where we're trying to defend that position with all these arguments that we've been talking about, and every time we have to make a difference. Its constitutional sovereignty is more important to the RS than the elections. They need everyone for a handful of authorities at the level of BiH and for the elections right away, and one point of the RS legal system is more important to us. Those who will trade the constitutional position of the RS and its election laws, we are not prepared to do so, and here we want the elections. And we, because we have enough qualified people and smart enough to propose what allows and respect for the constitutional position of the RS and to allow elections, however, everything here is clear. This is how everyone behaves when they have the most powerful power behind them and when they perform in the name of it. And we were witnesses to it, that's when all the arguments fall, only when the force, the pressure is gone without knowing whose, that's the real pressure, all these are, as they say, the linguists know better. And those who have to vote the same vote because of that pressure, not because they think this is okay. I know you don't think like this, I know you think this disability from the law can't be recovered, it can't, it can't, but the force is force, and the pressure is pressure, many here felt it on their skin, were all in that situation. Because when you have the power behind you then there are no arguments, what do you need arguments when you have the force, when the force says it will pass, let these go, these have to vote and you suggest. So, to cut the story short, but as Lazar Ristovski says in that movie, I prefer and point in the RS law more than any government at BiH level. It's a fact, it's a fact, and this is completely clear what it is and we don't need to even convince ourselves anymore. If there's anyone here right now, let the medics get involved in the recovery of this law if possible, but I think that's where the clinical death occurred and that's impossible.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18738	Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18739	I'll use my right to take business intervention, so I'm not replicating anyone. I think we're making this unnecessary here, I personally don't like it, the club president has already said, the idea of a partial implementation of the Constitutional Court decisions and I don't want to talk about the metrics at all, but only the Rules of Procedure. The bill proposed by SDS is a mandatory item of the agenda and means we can discuss it by the day after tomorrow, but it is a mandatory item of the agenda. The request for an urgent procedure, submitted by Honorable counterpart Živković as his proposal for a bill, but today he is a request for an emergency procedure, is in accordance with Article 127 of the same mandatory item of the agenda at the first next session, which is today. So we have a situation that, as I interpret this Rules of Procedure, we have a situation that we have about the same matter two mandatory points of the agenda. So, mandatory because Article 127 does not leave the possibility that the request will be declared if there is by chance something else in..., there is no, at the first next session. So that's the letter of the Rules of Procedure. Now, in this article of 101, it seems to me that it is, which speaks of a situation where two laws, similar, are found in the procedure of what is happening. At this point, we have real in the process of two laws, because the moment that an authorised promoter passes the law in the office, the law is in the procedure, whatever one of us thinks of him. We already have a defacto of two laws in the procedure, we have two laws in the procedure, so I'm, I'm not going to say now what's whose failure is possible, who didn't deliver it to the agenda today, so. And we can define ourselves, it's now a matter of interpreting the Rules of Procedure, of getting out of this in a number of ways. In my opinion, if two of the same laws are found in the procedure, and if neither is proposed by the Council of Ministers, then, in accordance with Article 101(5), the draft law is submitted to the Council of Ministers and an opinion is sought within 16 days of 20 days. The bill, which receives a positive opinion from the Council of Ministers, is put first in the procedure. It's the Rules of Procedure. So I'm talking again, I'm not talking about the metrics, the principles of whether it should be like this... but purely poslovnički. So, I don't see the possibility that Mr. Živković's proposal for an emergency procedure will be out of order today. I know that the College interprets the Rules of Procedure, please interpret this, you can ask for the interpretation and support of the House if it's a dilemma, but I think both of these proposals, is a strange situation, can be found in the agenda. And since we're going to get out of this one, that's another question now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18740	Deputy Chairman Milorad Živković, business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18741	I am the Vice-President and I said that this is a matter of business matters, that we could not agree in the College on this, that we could not in the extended College agree on this and that this debate is precisely about trying a business precedent to settle here in Parliament itself. And as the Proposer of this Law, I am prepared for any compromise solution. Put this law in the process after the SDS vote if it does not pass just to say that we are not against holding elections. Let us vote on the conclusion that both laws are sent to the Council of Ministers, so who gets a positive opinion and put it here. So, I'm open to all possible combinations just so this Parliament doesn't bring and make a mistake against constitutional law.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18742	I find there are no more applications to discuss the agenda. So now we're approaching... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Ten minutes off. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18746	No, no, the explanation of the break.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18747	The explanation of the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18748	Very short. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You didn't ask for an explanation. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18750	Please don't turn to everyone in a row right now, from the College and from the MPs' benches. The word was given to Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18751	This is the best I've heard. Tell your colleague not to throw, here, I mean that says enough. So, please, let's explain the matter of who was listening to Mr. Lozančić. We're not looking for a drop point four because it's mandatory. This becomes a mandatory point because it is submitted within the specified time limit and you must include it in the agenda. How you're going to make a statement about her is, of course, it's the decision of the House of Representatives. All MPs received a clear proposal through the office as the day of the agenda, it becomes an integral part. Whether you support it or not, the procedure will be decided here. To decide on the content and find that the same contents you must have in the procedure, do not hold..., and then follow what one of your colleagues said that after that the law that came earlier and all that... That's two things, I beg you, so these are binding things. No, we're not asking how anyone thinks about this, these are business binding things. No matter how this all ends but you can't precedent, so it's a lot in one day. So, how are you going to declare the procedure, the law, everything, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that have priority, but you're going to tell us that the laws of the same content and not let them enter the procedure are not possible, it's not real and it's not, it's nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. Let the law go and we'll get to those points that, one of the laws, we're absolutely clear, favoring, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18752	No matter how much we disagree on some things, I believe that you all agree that it is not easy to chair such a session of the House of Representatives. Now, here's what confirms to me that 10 of you at the same time took an unauthorized word. So, the task of both the chairman and the College is that the House always leads in accordance with the Constitution, the law and above all our Rules of Procedure. Of course, we don't want any business provisions to be broken and that's why I'm taking a 15-minute break and calling on an extended college. 18 [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please take your seats. So we held a session of an extended college. I am obliged to say that even within the extended College there was no consensus on how and how to interpret certain business provisions. Finally, after an exhaustive debate, there were several proposals. Finally, the expanded College concluded that the House, therefore, is to be interpreted whether something is in line with the Rules of Procedure or not. May I have your attention, please? So, I'm obliged to say what is now an extended college proposed to the House to declare it, and you will decide whether it is or not, or all of us. Therefore, the proposal is for an extended College to declare first the House of Representatives whether there are business conditions for voting on SNSD's proposal to include this point in the agenda. So, the House will now rule that question. If there are business conditions, then we'll vote again on whether we're going to put that item on the agenda or not. So that's the conclusion of the extended College towards the House of Representatives. We have very clear provisions when there is no consensus in colleges etc., as always in practice then the House of Representatives interprets the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Majkić, if you're looking for business, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18754	I really wasn't, I'm the third term in Parliament didn't happen to me in my life that the College couldn't explain what a business opportunity was but that it should be made known to the House about it. Is it possible that the level of communication in this Parliament has come to the conclusion that you cannot agree with each other what is in the Rules of Procedure and what is not. Well, then tell us to go home, so we don't waste any time here. If every time we speak of business matters, we will plead as ambassadors of the House, and you who are obliged to do so will not do so. What's the problem? Is it possible that the level of disagreement and inability to communicate so far that you can no longer determine what is according to the Rules of Procedure, which is not.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18755	We don't have a third member of the College at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18756	But wait, please, we're not talking about any delicate matter at all. We're talking about something that's happened countless times before. Well, I mean, I'm asking you to come out and tell me what this is about. Tell us why this happened, after an hour, two of the time we've been here you're going out and telling us that you're not able to see if it's in the Rules of Procedure or not. I am indignant and I really ask that all things here be made public and that you interrupt this session because this is not the way Parliament should work.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18757	So we obviously have a position where we have different attitudes, including different interpretations of Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure will not be interpreted by one man but by this House. And how this House will interpret it is the democratic will of the House of Representatives. Comrade Kalabić, is that right? 19
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18758	I owe it to Mr. Chairman to apologize to everyone. I don't know what we've been to an extended college. We were there, all that was now done could have been done immediately. This is very incorrect, we don't feel responsible for it because we think that all business conditions are acquired as well as any other points. As the chairman of everything else could have put it, and if he was already in the dilemma, he could have solved it as proposed now. We think they were acquired as in any other case, 24 hours before the session proposal clearly at the office adopted. We have never challenged anyone until now, we have now found it, we have suggested that we never challenge it to anyone again, that we do not need this, that it is the obligation of the Kolegijum to have every MP's right to propose law by an urgent procedure, that nothing is disputed in that. So we're not... the essence, we're the right of MPs. Obviously, Parliament is now being raped to challenge the MP's right to propose a law. Whether we're for him or not, we're just saying don't do it. And that an extended Kolegijum is authorized to make decisions, but tell the truth no longer has a majority, tell the truth. When you have most of them, then you have a deal, so you don't, and that's why you don't know. It has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. But I'm sorry about these people sitting here that we were where we were. That's the point. So we don't think at all that we're responsible, we apologize, because we said we wouldn't violate the right of an MP to propose in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, 24 hours before it was proposed by procedure. You can say no, you can knock it down, you can do whatever you want, but it's his right. Now we've got ourselves into a situation where we can't do that anymore, because we're gonna send a message that you don't want anyone playing from the opposition to propose a law because somewhere in a room, they're gonna decide whether or not they can. And so far we've had a situation not to decide, but that the law is there. So the law here, and we'll see if we can adopt it. That's clear, with one more apology.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18759	Thank you. So now I'm going to call on the House of Representatives to declare the conclusion of the extended College. Please vote first, the Lazare debate is closed, if you have a business choice.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18760	Mr. Chairman, I was just talking to you down at the club about this, and I can say one thing for the past seven years that if we haven't done it in seven years, we have to do it for the next 11 months. There is no readiness for dialogue here... If yesterday had been to an extended college of preparedness, we would have had an independent discussion of something, then all the club presidents were to sign yesterday, so the motion by emergency procedure, to make certain changes, to achieve agreement within the extended College, to deny something to get something, no one got. This isn't about the majority or the minority, this is about whether there's any willingness in this country to... Another thing that's obvious to paranoia is that we're paranoid, we're paranoid, we're paranoid, this paranoia to that extent comes to the point that it's simple to not believe. Here, this is a marginal thing, essential things if people are going to have a bigger 5-mark salary every month for the next 12 months, whether or not in 4 years they're going to have 240 marks more pay. What are we even willing to do in this country if we're not ready to listen to anything? Breaking up with each other and all. It is still not too late to reach that compromise. As far as I'm concerned I was saying, I was saying maybe embarrassingly, I apologize if I hurt anyone, but I was saying I could make a better law because we don't look as bad as... That's it, thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18761	I'd like to thank Ambassador Prodanović. I ask the MPs now to declare the conclusion of the extended College, the House of Representatives. I'll repeat the first conclusion again and then the second one. We vote first on the first one. So, yes, it is the conclusion of the extended College that the House of Representatives declares whether there are business conditions for voting under the SNSD proposal to include this point in the agenda. So, the proposal of an extended College is that the House of Representatives interprets the Rules of Procedure now, since there is no agreement within the College. A colleague, Živković, reporting for business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18762	I think it would be... if we voted if we had the right here to vote on what's in the Rules of Procedure. I think it's quite clear that there was no agreement in the College whether this law under article 127 could come into the agenda. And then when there is no consent in the College, then Parliament says whether it is right or wrong. I have stated, I call on my colleague Belkić, in the past it is about the Law on Police Authorities whether a respected colleague of Azra has passed the law, whether a respected colleague Kalabić has passed the law, whether or not a respected colleague of the same law, Lozančić, by 127th, and was on the agenda. But this time the College says you can't do that. I'm asking Parliament if she can. Thank you, and that's what we should vote on.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18763	Here you go, fellow Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18764	Did you from the SNSD now vote for what the chairman suggested? So now we vote, now we're sitting in the College, and that was at the vote, that's like a proposal for a conclusion. This is already an obstruction. So we came here with a unanimous, and we voted for it, and so did you. Just to get rid of her, we claim it's clear in the Rules of Procedure that she can't do it at all, but here's to get rid of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18765	My colleague Bosić has his word, the rest of you listen to him, you'll all get the word. Is anyone, colleague Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18766	Let's at least tell the truth. All that Mr. Živković has said, so it is illusory that an extended College is discussing what ultimately comes down to what is an MP, so if it does not support the right of MPs, the House must be declared. There's no need to keep us there for two hours as hostages. And that's why we said that it's illusory to say this and we didn't want to make a statement because it's logical. Whether we were there, if we hadn't spoken of anything, we would have voted now, but we are voting on what Mr. Živković suggested and not on this, because this is everything else, I don't know what to call it, because Mr. Živković could not participate in the work of an extended Kolegijum and now wait for a decision, if there is no support there he is looking for support here. And that's all we can say. But I don't know why we lost three hours, I don't know why, I don't see any reason. We warned you about it there,...moreover, as Col. Prodanović says, neither we listen to each other, nor 21 at all, I don't understand what kind of game is played, I really don't understand, just God's time. Let it play out until the end, but don't let us lose all day. I don't get it now. Please put Mr. Živković's proposal, which was set, which did not get a decision, most of it at the small College, on the extended College. He insists that we vote here and what kind of philosophy it is now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18767	Wait a minute, so with a little patience, we'll be able to unblock this situation. This House will decide how to unblock him and how he will continue his work today. My colleague Kalabić, if I understand you correctly, you suggest that before this proposal we first vote on my colleague Živković's proposal. Should a colleague of Živković repeat his conclusion or have you all remembered him? Here, here, colleague Živković has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18768	The requirement that the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Election Law be placed on the agenda of Article 127, because I think it was until the current practice in this Parliament and we, when the same laws under the same procedure, set out the session of 28th, were the point of the agenda in this Parliament. I didn't get that consent in the College, that consent at the extended Kolegijum was not voted, and only this House can now interpret the Rules of Procedure differently than it has previously interpreted. No other SNSD club will vote on whether or not we have the right to vote on the Rules of Procedure, we won't, we'll get out. We're asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18769	So, I see there's a mood to put in, and here I call on you to put this proposal to the vote by colleagues of Živković first. If he goes through the matter is clear, if he doesn't pass, we'll also vote on the conclusion of an extended college. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No need, great, even better. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. 12 for, 22 against, 7 abstentions. I find that this proposal has not been given the necessary majority. I find that the 58th session of the House has the next Agenda 1. Confirming the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina's decision to appoint Ministers and Deputy Ministers at the BiH Council of Ministers; 2. Legislative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 22 3. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection and Well-being Act – Proposer: MEP Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović, Law No: 01-02-1-26/13, of 05.06.2013. (law in second reading); 4. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law – Proposers: MPs from the SDS Club, Law No 01-02-1-46/13, of 09.10.2013. (second reading); 5. The Commission's report to the College on its efforts to reach agreement on a draft law on salaries and other fees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial and prosecutorial institutions – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-47/13, of 28.10.2013. (law in first reading); 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Protection of Secret Information – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-48/13, of 28.10.2013. (first reading); 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Criminal Law – Proposer: MP Mirsad Đugum, Law No: 01-02-1-49/13, of 29.10.2013. (First Reading); 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH – Proposer: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No 01-02-1-42/13, of 12.11.2013, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 9. The BiH presidency's decision to place professional military personnel in the formation posts of the BiH Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of BiH, No: 01,02-03-1177/13, of 13.11.2013; 10. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for the period January-June 2013, the BiH Presidency's material, issue: 01,02-16-1094/13, of 21.10.2013.; 11. The appointment of members of the BiH Appeal Office, the BiH Council of Ministers material, number 01-34-1149/13, of 05.11.2013; 12. Consideration: c) MP Milorad Živković's resignation as member of the Interresor Working Group for the preparation of amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law, issue: 01-50-1138/13, of 22.11.2013; d) appointment of MP Darko Babalj as member of the Interresor Working Group for the preparation of amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law (instead of MEPs Milorad Živković); 13. Material discussion: (a) Report by the BiH Council of Ministers on the status of gender equality in BiH in 2011, (b) CEDAW: Final observations regarding the combined fourth and fifth periodic report by Bosnia and Herzegovina, (c) Gender action plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2013-2017, with the opinion and conclusions of the Commission on gender equality; 14. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of National Minorities of BiH, issue 01,02-05/7-02-4-1193/13, of 15.11.2013; 15. Review of Parliamentarian Senad Šepić's initiative from the 55th session of the House of Representatives, held on 24.10.2013, which reads: "I propose that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives be held on the agenda of the next session and discuss the subject: Strategic Action of Institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the direction of ensuring uniform development of Bosnia and Herzegovina", issue: 01-50-1-1006/13, of 24.10.2013; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank concerning the Regional Programme for Housing Management, No: 01,02-05-2-185/13, of 14.11.2013; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the cross-border programme Bosnia and Herzegovina – Montenegro under the 2012 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, No: 01,02-05-2-1207/13, of 20.11.2013; 18.11.2013; Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the Bosnia and Herzegovina cross-border programme – Serbia under the 2012 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, issue: 01.02-05-2-1208/13, of 20.11.2013; 19. Giving consent to ratification Supplement No. 2. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. in the context of the IPA – a component of transition and institution building for 2009, issue: 01,02-05-2-1209/13, of 20.11.2013. 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Co-operation in 2010, No: 01,02-05-2-1229/13, of 27.11.2013; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Co-operation in 2011, No 01,02-05-2-1230/13, of 27.11.2013; We move to the realization of the agenda. First act, Ad. 1. Confirmation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Chairman's Decision on appointment of Ministers and Deputy Ministers at the BiH Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18772	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. You, Mr. Chairman, have read the provision of Article 142. A Rules of Procedure on the appointment of the chairman of the Council of Ministers after the BiH presidency's decision, or ministers' decision is received when we receive a proposal from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. But for the debate on this subject, it is necessary to return to the last session and to the provision of Article 143. The rules of procedure on the basis of which the decision was made to replace the ministers, ministers and deputies in the BiH Council of Ministers. The mechanism referred to in Article 143(1), which reads that a club of MPs or at least three MPs in the House of Peoples, could then be used to initiate a motion to vote on the non-confidentiality of the Council of Ministers or on the need for reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. The SNSD's request voted to replace the minister and two deputy ministers through the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. And that was the provision of Article 143. Rules of Procedure. Later, the matter was done by actually taking a shift to the Chairman's proposal, although the request was for reconstruction and Parliament was manifested about it. According to the provisions of Article 147. The House's Rules of Procedure are said to be put to the vote after the end of this debate, last debate, the proposal on non-trust or reconstruction is put to the vote, and if the proposal is not adopted, etc., if the chairman of the House of Peoples, the Council of Ministers and the Presidency is adopted, I underline the BiH Presidency's results of the vote on non-trust or reconstruction and other initiatives in this respect. I have answered to say that what was for me was a request for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, that Parliament made a majority of votes decision on the reconstruction, and when the reconstruction of the procedure was the same as when the Council of Ministers' untrust was voted. The chairman of the Council of Ministers under the Constitution and by law, particularly by law, has the right to replace ministers and deputies and the decision to confirm and make their decisions both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The chairman of the Council of Ministers does not have the right to change the job at the same time, because of the mandate of the one who was in the direct elections and the head of the BiH presidency's executive power, he was given the mandate on the basis of the proposed parliamentary majority and on the basis of the programme. We have a situation today that, that was last year, and I repeat that, when it comes to ministers from the U.S.A., and I repeat that now that this is the last case. I ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers – whether he addressed the BiH presidency's mandate and was given the mandate to change the parliamentary majority. If you haven't spoken to the chairman, and you haven't spoken to him either last time or now, what you've done in my opinion is against the constitution. If the House does this, this is an anti-constitutional change of the parliamentary majority by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and those who vote here in Parliament, and this is something that is inadmissible. This is a classic avoidance of BiH's executive head of BiH presidency. To enter this procedure, you had to address the BiH presidency. That's it, thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18773	Thank you. Is there anyone else to report from the MPs for the debate? If anyone wants on behalf of the Council of Ministers, then it's not necessary, and so it can. Here, we have a registered letter to Aleksandar Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18774	I thank the chairman. I'd like to warn you of a potentially very dangerous situation, since we just got here, our mouths were full of constitutionality. In fact, we still haven't received a decision from this Parliament by the chairman of the Council of Ministers on the replacement of Ministers Šarović, Deputy Okolić and Deputy Deputy Mitrović. This Parliament is raising some hands, we will see whether in a legal or illegal way, did something, but I will remind you that, here last night I saw on the website of the Constitutional Court that, an appeal was filed and the Constitutional Court will declare its appeal and provisional measure on December 10th. What if the Constitutional Court says that what Parliament has done is illegal, brings maybe a temporary measure and fully adopts an appeal, what about these people? I'm just warning you what kind of situation you've come into and that maybe, we won't be correcting your guilty Drina for that there are competent institutions, but maybe you should consider, for your sake, delaying the appointment vote until the Constitutional Court ruling that will be here in five days. Don't have ministers for five days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18775	Okay. We'll make it possible for everyone to express their opinion. Replica, deputy chairman of Milorad Živković's House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18776	Thank you. I don't think the presidency is the head of the executive, I think it's this Parliament. I do not think we have made any mistake in procedures by strictly interpreting the Rules of Procedure of Parliament in the process of reconstructing the Council of Ministers. Since this discussion also has a political connotation and you cannot talk about these aspects, I will say that in the Continuity of the SDS because of my ignorance, I will not believe that they are doing this on purpose, they are working against the interests of the RS, and here, they are doing actions that are harmful to the interest of the RS, and they are fatal to the development of BiH's parliamentary democracy. Let me remind you, by transferring jurisdiction with the Law on Tariffs from the BiH Parliament, where we have an entity vote, you have transferred to the Council of Ministers where voting can make decisions. So, from the RS to BiH and you made the BiH government, right in this ministry that we need to replace. I want to say that I am happy that the SDS did not do it as a party, because obviously there are wise people in your party, but that it was done by only a person from the SDS, it seems to me that he is trying to get out of this parliamentary jurisdiction of choice, or the shift of ministers, so that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, you are creating from him a prime minister who is the only autonoman, in your opinion, if that were followed by the Constitutional Court's decision, that he can reconstruct the Council of Ministers. 26 Imagine the situation in which the prime minister is Bošnjak, and someone from the RS is a minister and does not listen to the parliamentary majority, does not listen to the MPs from the RS, works according to his or her opinion, and you cannot change it because he is good with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I speak hypothetically to the people of the Federation. In which the country cannot vote out of Parliament for mistrust and what parliamentary majority you are talking about if it cannot launch here the replacement of individuals from the Council of Ministers. This is harmful to the interests of RS colleagues, and devastating to parliamentary democracy. You probably thought about it deeply when you proposed your Electoral Law in which, you saw, you asked the Constitutional Court to be a legislator because you add members, don't change them. You think the Constitutional Court can delete a member of the law. The Constitutional Court is not a legislator, he cannot delete the members, don't do it from him, it is harmful for this Parliament because you are putting the Constitutional Court above this Parliament, and it is harmful for the RS as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18777	Replica, Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18778	I thank the chairman. Well, I am obliged, given that Mr Božo Ljubić did not chair for legitimate reasons, I chaired the session of this Commission, you saw the report, but I would like to note that the work of this Commission and its procedures were fully regulated by representatives of the SDA and the SDS, supported its work and participated in the procedures. All that comes next, that means giving legitimacy to the whole story, which is completely out of line with what they're talking about right now. If it's unconstitutional then you don't participate in it, in an unconstitutional...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18779	So the selection and appointment committee was unanimous. _________(?) It's not. It's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18781	I'm talking about participation, which means participation in the work, because there was a complete discrepancy in the work and an unconstitutional story. That's what I'm talking about, but, of course, everyone believes this is a perfectly neat and legal and legal procedure. I have no right to say so on behalf of the future minister, but to the question about this, because we are introducing, in addition to everything we have introduced, we are now introducing a ball into this House in terms of what it will be, and the man has quite logically answered – if the Constitutional Court decides, however it decides, I don't think for one second against the Constitutional Court. It's a perfectly logical answer, both normal and human, as far as it goes. Because in addition to calling on this Parliament, calling on the occupiers, the emperors, calling on the foreigners of bad intentions, I don't even know what it is, we are now calling on the centres of power outside this Parliament to choose executive power. What someone said - it is either that way in the whole world or it is the urgency that Parliament solves it with the sole will of the majority. Here it is required to be according to the dictatorship of the minority, if it can't, and of course it was seen in the vote that it can't do in this House, now that dictatorship is called upon by some centre of power to do something that isn't his job. This is where the Constitutional Court is asked to decide who will be the minister who will not and that the Constitutional Court decides what composition of the Council of Ministers will be. We know what they're called countries and how they went through what 27 did. But knowing who sent him to the Constitutional Court, it's a logical sequence of events that are expected of those you send with the task. But I'm afraid that's not good, we're well-intentioned here, we think that this Parliament, and we don't always like the majority decision as it was before, so what, we go ahead, she's the one who should sort of decide, and everything else, because we think that everything is done in accordance with, as the Commission has done its job legally and legitimately this morning in accordance with procedures and no one has made any obstructions or anything else. Of course, I repeat, the result was five, as you saw, for, it seems to me three against and two abstentions, that someone might not think I manipulated the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18782	MP Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18783	What I'm saying is that the Council of Ministers consisted of a person who is proposing political parties that make up most of them, and that's not unusual. The SDS, here's no longer a majority, and that's the thing we have to figure out, even though it's hard to accept, it's the truth now. The SDS is not a majority and therefore cannot be, in other ways, influenced by this choice. This is where the decision should be made, so the majority we will see, we see that, how was the vote in the Commission's report. I don't think it's right to go back to that right now. So, the Constitutional Court, it is expected that the Constitutional Court will make a decision that is expected to repeal the House's decision and return it, the old ministers and deputy ministers, is not realistic and would take a key role in this House. That means you could never change anyone or name a new one again. So it's really a circumstance that we don't have to count on much, and I think you're also aware of in the SDS, and that you should forget in that way that... So there's a new majority who's brought this opinion on the appointment of ministers and deputy ministers. I'm just going to tell you that it is not correct for people who sit here all day today waiting to be finally appointed and I really want to welcome Mr. Boris Tučić, who has recently been the adviser to the Prime Minister for European Integration and Mr. Miladin Dragičević, who was the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees in the RS government, and also to us, the famous Živko Marjanac, who was already Deputy Minister of Defence. So, let's end this debate and end it, it's really degutant every further conversation on this subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18784	Replica, MP Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18785	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Article 15. The Council of Ministers makes it clear – the chairman of the Council of Ministers can launch a procedure for the replacement of ministers and deputies. If the Parliamentary Assembly adopts a decision to confirm the replacement of the minister or deputy minister chairing the Council of Ministers, it is required to appoint a new minister in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 10 of this Act. We have never received this first decision from the Chairman's Council of Ministers. And when there was a vote here on ministers' shifts, we didn't dispute, there were hands, all we asked was that the Council of Ministers' Law be respected and that we get what's called the decision of the chairman's council of ministers. Our legal constitutional right is to appeal to an act we consider illegal and unconstitutional. I believe that you could have done it in accordance with the law and I believe that someone here didn't do it on purpose in accordance with the law, and you know why, to deepen the crisis. And not 28 guilty maybe even you from the SNSD, the chairman of the Council of Ministers knew perfectly how he replaced ministers and made a decision to replace ministers from the SDA. All he needed was an identical decision to send. He didn't want it for some reason. And if we bring this into the context of resolving the Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci verdict and what was happening the other day in Brussels, we understand that there are forces here in this country that just want to deepen the crisis, which unfortunately you from the SNSD have manipulated. As for the Customs Tariff Act, Mr. Živković, you should know better than I do, that the Council of Ministers all decisions that have an executive character, which do not go to this Parliament, is why a Serbian minister needs a voice. We believe our Minister Šarović, I believe that you have reason not to trust Mr Špirić, because I remember and when this Parliament confirmed and changed customs tariffs, all of us remember here the affair... from Brcko, whom the Council of Ministers gave huge money over, those were tens of millions of marks, it seems to me, for some incentives, and then this Parliament and your MPs were giving me statements, then I worked as a journalist, that it was a criminal request, so a permit for importing 50,000 tonnes of unrefined sugar without customs, you made it possible for ministers, whose head was Mr Nikola Špirić, to extend those decisions and he extended them twice again. And of that, a private company has acquired an enormous material gain. What are we talking about? I don't think you have a moral right to talk about such things at all in that case, because you then allowed a certain law-covered crime. Still...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18786	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18787	All right, here's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18788	The Republic has been replaced by the chairman, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18789	Thank you. You're obviously reading, but you don't read enough and you read superficially. The Council of Ministers shall, when making decisions, make decisions by the chairman and two deputies. The Customs Tariffs Act, which you adopted with 5 SDS votes, gives the opportunity to do so by the Council of Ministers where, when you read it, you know that they can revote decisions, where all members of the Council of Ministers are reputed. So after what I said, with you on any TV show, take out the papers I'll take out the papers, if you're right, I'll admit you're right. But please stand up and say I'm right. The second thing, when it comes to any decision that Parliament has made here, you know that these decisions can be made in one way or another, and the enforcement of those decisions should be subject to verification by the executive authorities and the competent authorities of whether there has been abuse. You are the possibility that this Parliament will make a decision to transfer it to the Council of Ministers. I've never seen a single decision again, never, not one. All decisions are made by the Council of Ministers. Why did we do that? Why didn't you and I even discuss that decision? You've made this House a henhouse. The second thing, I'm talking about the Council of Ministers Act, here's my colleague Džaferović is an excellent lawyer, I interpret him in a way... 29
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18790	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18791	Well, if he suspects it. There are positive provisions in the law where someone can run something, in this case the Council of Ministers can run. Show in the Law where there are negative provisions, where it is forbidden for Parliament to initiate it. Is that how the law can be interpreted? So there is no negative provision in which this Parliament is forbidden to initiate the process of reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, that is allowed, and we have done so to the Rules of Procedure. And you're preventing this Parliament from launching it whenever it is, tomorrow someone else will be in power, and you're only giving the Council of Ministers, or one man, to the chairman of the Council of Ministers to do so. In what parliamentary democracy does it exist? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18792	Ambassador Saša Magazinović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18793	Replica to my colleague Pandurević. First of all, I'm sorry that the gentlemen are waiting all day to be appointed, but here, it's not easy to become a member of the Council of Ministers. _________(?) It's a thorny road. The thorny path, it is. As for the crime you're talking about, without wanting to prevent a debate about it, but I think the best way to get rid of what you're talking about is to file a criminal complaint. And if you don't, then you're committing a crime, with all the knowledge you have. And I would also like it to have some kind of epilogue concerning judicial institutions, not that it happens in a way that's being told here in Parliament, everyone says what they have to say, based or unfounded, and that's where it ends. So, I think that's a better way to go. But as far as this whole discussion is concerned, it's not exactly a bribery to use every item of the agenda for interparty bickering. There are 20 points of the agenda, you and the SNSD will find enough space to continue this story, but I think they should be worthy of the agenda point, and we should deignly appoint people to the Council of Ministers, to take an oath, and then when they leave there are 21 points of the agenda for accusing, mutual insults and everything else you've planned. But let's at least have a little dignity on the agenda we're discussing.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18795	MP Milica Marković has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18796	My replica is addressed to Ms. Aleksandra Pandurević for an exhibition in which she calls us to the legality regarding the appointment or resolution of members of the Council of Ministers, while forgetting, however, she is only 3 years in this Parliament, forgetting that 30 is the appointment of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the assembly of the Council of Ministers, both legal and political decision. Today, ministers and deputy ministers, when appointed to this assembly majority of course on condition that it exists in view of the previous vote, tomorrow the assembly majority are no longer ministers in the Council of Ministers. Is that clear to you? And you're calling for constitutionality, for some great laws, for this, for that. And on the other hand, here, within two to three hours, your consistency, your principle, and that kind of legality that you call upon, that at the previous point, you are absolutely not interested in what the Constitutional Court is going to say, let's say, in the next two, three months, but give the law the way we want it to be, and now you are calling on us all to wait for what the Constitutional Court is going to say to one, let's say, and the political and legal decision of this Parliament. Today you have trampled and thrown under the feet of the laws of the Republic of Slovenia, and the Law of Election and the Law of Territorial Organization in the Republic of Slovenia. You carry jurisdiction, beside us the living and others from the RS, but only because you have 5 votes and you have enough of those 5 votes to transfer competence from the RS to BiH in respect of customs tariffs. And you're talking, so it's good for the RS and it's useful for you to go to the opposition. And it was useful and good for her when the 2006 voters sent you to the opposition, and they'll send you again next year. You're talking about legality, and you're working directly against the RS you come from. Here, on these examples today you confirmed it, and in customs tariffs you first showed. And you should stay away from these discussions and not be exposed in this part of it, but of course you talk more about yourself and talk and show examples that you don't cross the law of the Republic of Slovenia and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and that you transfer jurisdiction just so that you're in the chair. And who knows what kind of situation it would be in 2014 if you happened to come into power, but you won't come for sure. What kind of situation would that be if you were to defend the interests of the RS here alone? Sad and sad and dangerous, after all, as it was until 2006.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18797	Ambassador Boško Tomić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18798	Thank you very much. Well, let me first and foremost say a few words to individuals who, I would ask you to calm down to gentlemen when spoken, it's impossible not to replicate to some people from the SDS who are trying in every way to in one solemn part when people are named to function that and make it as much funk as possible, and that doesn't make any sense. Mr. Tučić, Dragičević and Marjanac were selected by their political parties, coming from the SNSD, from the Socialist Party, the one who is the most chosen, the one who can objectively deliver good results. And instead of giving people a chance and telling them here before we take the oath to follow their work. And the opposition can now name it, so we'll follow their work and we'll criticize them. People haven't even taken an oath, they're nothing, you're holding a sermon as it's not in accordance with the law. The more we make mistakes, and they don't comply with the law, the better for you, the easier it will be for you in the Constitutional Court if it goes into that procedure. But as you will, you must again come before this Parliament and ask Parliament for that majority. Since you don't have the majority of you have to deal with it, I just don't know if anyone on behalf of you is going to be looking for protection of national vital interest, so you haven't tried that yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18799	Lazar Prodanović has a replica. Here you go. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18800	Mr. Chairman. I expected the SDS to give up very harsh and decadently brilliant legal... Mr. Šefik Džaferović, as president of the Constitutional Commission. As SDA MP, Šefik Džaferović should not protect your interests, so that is completely unnecessary. Here's why. The Šefik was also president of the Constitutional Commission in the previous term, we replaced the PDP's deputy minister, he never put this as a problem. His minister and deputy ministers were removed in the Council of Ministers, not put this as a problem. How can you be so naive, I can't believe you're so naive that you believe him now that he didn't even set it up when we did, we replaced Sven Alkalaj with you, and as lions you've been pushing us against the Zlatko Lagumdžija, to replace us in every way possible. And now I can't believe you think that Šefik is a naive man, SDA your interest... And look here, I apologize to the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, I find it uncomfortable when I speak, he is such a serious man, do you think that Mr. Bevanda Vjekoslav is a man of no dignity and that this cabinet is a failure, that he writes the appointment of this minister and these deputy ministers because the Constitution violates. Now, that's absolutely unclear to me. And look, now I'm going to tell you something, if I were in the case of you and I've been more than once and it should be, I'd try to jump on a white horse, I'd try, not on a raga like Sančo Pansa. Look, you try to at least if it's not a white horse, it's not a white horse to be a horse. Well, look, if you've got heights, but you know what on the white horse you're running towards the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. We've passed a corrupt tariff law. And the devil can't dump you from it, the minister's position. Guys, what are you talking about? So you fight only for power, only for unscrupulous and at all costs. So, you're just fighting for it, because if you were honorary, you'd say -- we want to be these 11 months of opposition, it will be, so Minister and Deputy Minister will be... So try not to be a white horse and not be a raga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18801	Ambassador Adnan Bašić has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18802	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since this morning, as this session began, I wonder why we've gone this far. I am still the oldest among you, so fate has determined. And sometimes I think about whether I'm in a high school class about or in one of these high places, which should be regulated by one state in law. I understand why all this started and we all know very well what's causing it, but these consequences have crossed some boundaries. Please, you all know very well, follow all the media and printed and electronics, if you used the vocabulary, which all the prefixes give us our people behind whom we swear to stand, then you'd be the worst streetie and I'd be ashamed of that. If television broadcasts today were these painful and difficult sessions, here's how it goes on, what do you think that impression came from that same people about us. I pray both SNSD and SDS do not drag us into their mutual political conflicts that slowly grow into an open war, and this serves as an arena for reckoning. Please don't, find a little compromise, it seems to me that Saša told me or someone, get down on the ground a little bit. Let's discuss what we have to do, what we have to do and what our job is. And if it's 32 of our duties and our job to foreclose for almost four hours on just one item of the agenda, then something's wrong with all of us. Please lower your tensions, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18803	Ambassador Borislav Bojić has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18804	Given the canon of everything that's been heard by the SNSD tonight, it's really pointless not to say anything. It's obvious that you SNSD gentlemen are really scared. Listen, please, the findings say you're fighting for power. And here are the three candidates of future ministers and deputies who sit at Ljuba's grave while the rifle is heard the position will not fall and wait to be appointed to the Council of Ministers, and we are fighting for power. What authority, man, Lazar, what are you talking about? I mean, what kind of power is that?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18805	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18806	So it's a matter of procedure. Well, of course we only point to procedure, you appoint people, these are your representatives, not representatives of the SDS. Just so you know, I don't know if any of them were ever in the SDS, it doesn't matter, but these are SNSD candidates and the Socialist Party fighting for power, and it's totally logical. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, all of us sitting in this room are looking to our political programs, our goals, and to exercise power in the interests of the people. What the hell are we here for except for, I don't know. If you're not in favor of power, so don't let people go, we know better than you five times. So you just don't need to get so much. Ms. Pandurević has had one discussion and ten replicas appear. From what? Of all the things you remember, I don't know in any way, so you remember everything you've done wrong in the past so that you can attribute it to the SDS. And the SDS is a dignified political party that does its job with dignity. And as far as anyone knows, Mr. Živković, it turned out at the end of this whole manipulation that you've had here today from the whole play, you've seen how your proposal finally went. So, slowly, the time is right in front of us. Just that you are the best in the world comes the time of change, the time has come to change and you will be changed. I remember high support to the SNSD leader with over 57%, and now you can read in the Independent Newspaper that it's 17%. Yeah, yeah, that's where the SNSD status is pretty much. Of course, don't worry, make sure there's gonna be a change, I'm totally convinced of that. There's no reason for a change to happen. Since time is a short opportunity for us to talk a little more about SNSD and SDS in these tiny hours... 33
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18808	I thank Mr. Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18809	Because we are used to discussing big political issues with you in the small hours, and the tariffs and the rest, now there will be an opportunity after the next lines, so that we may explain the matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18810	If I get my colleague Lozančić's point right, you've got business, then you've got an advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18811	Thank you, Mr. President. In accordance with Article 70 of the Treaty on the I refer to the Rules of Procedure as a violation of Article 71. The Rules of Procedure, since none of the predecessors in the debate so far have spoken about the item of the agenda under discussion. Mr. Džaferović spoke of a previous session where something was discussed and made some decisions. Everyone else talked mainly about political disagreements between some parties, and we have a agenda point – Confirming the Council of Ministers' decision to appoint ministers and deputy ministers to the Council of Ministers. And everything that's been so far has been beyond this agenda point. And respected Mr. Džaferović, and very clever, but very out of the agenda. And since it's obvious that I don't have the will, I won't answer anyone's lines, so I'm calling you, it means you warn everyone, and since I'm going to say very briefly about this point within this time period that I have left. It is not the Council of Ministers' chairman-in-Office's fault that the Council of Ministers has created a gap concerning the position of one minister and two deputy ministers. Mr. President, I congratulate you on having, within a very short time, what is up to you, made this decision available today and in the debate here and I believe and at confirmation. And those who aim to have a crisis and deepen it will probably do anything to make it even more hollow in the Council of Ministers. I hope that, here, those who seriously wish to enable the Council of Ministers to fulfil their constitutional obligations will allow you to work fully with the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18812	What you were talking about, my colleague Lozančić, is that if we take a stenogram, at least 10 times since this morning, I have warned about these things, but the MPs are there and they unfortunately know that they seem to have gone over business provisions and to discuss and what is not the agenda, but I think that your appeal is quite fine, although looking back and forth not only this mandate but also the previous ones, we know very well that when it comes to appointments of ministers and deputy ministers that there have always been broad debates that have not always been in line with the agenda. Ambassador Slavko Jovičić has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18813	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 34 You know how the discussion begins here, I didn't mean to answer, but here I answered. You know what's best, listen, I didn't mean it, and I answered. I answered, and thank you, Mr. Bojić, because I was proud of myself. Listen to me. Someone from SNSD was afraid of dignity. When was that? When was that? The other thing, Mr. Džaferović is one of the oldest MPs in this House, along with Mr. Živković. Well, Mr. Džaferović, putting himself and supporting the SDS, you are blocking BiH institutions. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Where he goes now, I just want... a friend, to tell him.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18815	Comrade Sokolović, try not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18816	You're calling off the blockade of BiH institutions. If that suits you...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18817	Come back to your friend Jovičić's agenda. Here, and colleagues are trying to call for a debate and that as much as possible. The agenda point, clearly what it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18818	Here, you of the SDP could have done the best thing, not to listen at all to SDS and SDA, and to have people take an oath two hours ago, and not to sit there and bully us here for two hours. You're the best, if we have a parliamentary majority with you. The SNSD decides both the SDP and our friends from the Party for the Future, from the HDZ's both, declare it and complete. We don't ask SDS and SDA what they're asking. Once they've created most of them, then the SNSD won't ask a question. We were truly scared, just the best term I've ever heard in seven years. Listen, I'm really scared. Well, I wasn't scared when I was taken five times to the shooting, that I was afraid of something we were choosing here and that I was supporting the chairman of the Council of Ministers who did everything correctly, all correct. Well done, Mr. Chairman, and I'm still thanking you on my own behalf. And you three get ready to take an oath, where those girls are to take you there and congratulate you, to finish the procedure, what you're listening to SDS and SDA. Well, with them, BiH has failed, and it will ruin everything. Let's get you started.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18819	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18820	Comrade Babalj, don't leave the scene. My colleague Kalabić has his word. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18821	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 35 I fully understand the warnings and I will try and stick to it, given that the point of the agenda is the choice of these people. It's obvious that there's a shadow over their choices that isn't standing and that's not based anywhere and I think it's completely uncalled for to be brought into any kind of relationship after their views today and all that we have here as a will and a willingness, means for their choice. I can only ask as a question, respecting the institutions and everything else, is someone ready to sit in the chair past this Parliament's decision? Here, and today to hear if there are people in this country who are willing to exercise power without political support from the parliamentary majority. Will the Constitutional Court's decision, which I have no problem with because there are hundreds and there are hundreds of them, are they what they are, is that decision going to be the basis for someone here to say – you don't care, I am the government in this country today, I don't care whether I have a majority or not, and whether anyone supports me or doesn't support me? Here's what I'm asking the public now. That's what this is about, Mr. Bojić. Are you fighting for power, but by what means? I suppose this Parliament should send a message that the fight for power should be legal, legitimate and democratic means and moral means, not all means. So I say, is there a person who is willing to sit in a chair very important and important based on some decision outside this House? We know how to get to a position, and I think we should respect this today and end it. The only thing that interests me now alive, in the next 11 months, is whether Mr. Šefik Džaferović will spend his legal knowledge, which I won't tell my court until the end, wasting myself on these stories from the SDS. They've spent a lot more authority and they've, in a way, demoted them in a legal sense, and I'm livingly interested in how you're going to go through this now to protect the head of this legal team that you've put yourself on, here in the next period. And I don't want to bring my own judgment, so I'm just curious about how it's going to end.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18822	Ambassador Darko Babalj, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18823	Right now, I'm supposed to have some dignity here. Now I have stood up to believe that these children from this high or elementary school have left and I am glad that they have left, because today they have heard all of this from us I think they would have come to the conclusion that this is not the BiH Parliament, the largest legislative body, but that it is one great animal kingdom. This animal kingdom...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18824	I'm a colleague of Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18825	This animal kingdom...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18826	kolega Babalj, you have first moved away from the agenda, and the second, you have made one assessment that no MP can accept here in Parliament, including your colleagues. I'll give you five minutes to cool off a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18827	This, Chairman, may I... 36 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18828	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please take your seats, continue our work on this agenda. kolega Babalj, here we had a brief conversation and in the hallway, I would ask you to continue your discussion in a dignified tone, express your opinion correctly.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18829	Of course. You didn't let me finish, and you probably wouldn't have interrupted the session if you'd heard what I was about to say. I didn't even think to say, when I mentioned the animal kingdom, I just wanted to tell everyone that we are today, now we're going to take a stenogram, I'm going to make it next time. Mr. Prodanović mentioned horses and rages.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18830	Can we please...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18831	But no, I am that, so Mr. Živković said we're a henhouse, Mr. Kalabić keeps saying we're lions, eagles and crows, Mr. Badgers. So if it's not an animal kingdom, then I don't know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18832	Replica, MP Mladen Bosić. Here you go. I'll have the others hear from my colleague Bosić. Darko Babalj gave up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18833	So I'd also invite you to calm down here at the atmosphere. zači, I would call for a dignified debate, a debate of facts, no offense, no matter whether the facts are bad or whether we don't like them or some views different from our own, we should not be offended, and here it became a practice. I'll try that, and I tried not to insult anyone, no matter what you don't like what I say. But that kind of speaks more of those who have such a vocabulary and those who are constantly trying to raise tensions with personal insults and in an inappropriate way in this House. I ask you to understand that we are the opposition. The SDS Club is an opposition in this House, and you act like we're the position and you're the opposition. On one discussion of our letter or MP, you are reporting 10 for the replica and for the discussion. Well, our job is to criticize what you're doing. That's what we do. You're doing us a favor. That's good, you give us political space to talk more and we have a lot more to say. But you should have some level of dignity here. Here I can't expect some people to change their style and their way, here's not to say, maybe even the education and culture they have. But you, the chairman, should, too, use more frequently, as you used here in half a sentence for Mr. Babalj, should have the same archaic towards all. So I'm calling for a minimum courtesy discussion to be found here. Let them be facts, let them be opinions, but let there be no insults. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18834	There is no chairman on this planet who can help us if we don't all understand our role together and work in harmony with the Rules of Procedure. Beriz Belkić, the MP has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18835	Here, ten or twelve replicas, etc., a whole series of sketches and stuff. So I'm going to use this opportunity, one in a series of cross-borders, as in the parliamentary majority of these all be called, the Council of Ministers for one impact assessment of this government over the past three years. So he's in direct contact with this topic. Of course, in a dignified way. When power was taken over by election winners in this hall were announced programming coalitions, a new spirit was announced and announced...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18836	We'll have a report on the work, Mr. Belkić, Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18837	I suggest you don't go in with me in this kind of conversation, because I'll tell you something that...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18838	I don't plan on getting into any kind of discussion, clean, all day long, warning that we're sticking to the agenda, and that's what you're pleading for, that's why.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18839	Well, don't, then let me, I'm sticking to the agenda. So this today's series of transfers from this government is an opportunity to say that you spent three years and did nothing, and that you're going to do it next year. That's what I want to tell you. And this is an opportunity for the citizens of this country to hear. You think people are gonna have fun with what we're doing today. People know what's going on. We warned that the 2006-2010 mandate would be well mentioned. Look at the statistics, look at the data, and you'll see. Get serious people and try to do something this last year at least. Of course, we'll be restrained, that's your job. And I'm glad there's reinforcements in the opposition. So far we've been practically alone, but here, lately there are new people, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18840	Ambassador Šefik Džaferović has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18841	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I won't be long, then. I didn't purposely want to replicate after individual discussions. Many times after my discussion, my name was mentioned in many discussions. I am 38 now unbound for any discussion to reject all these insinuations and ask my colleagues to take care of the dignity of all of us here in Parliament. And when we discuss, when we speak, that we do not simply and easily qualify towards people, even if it is in the heat of political struggle. I think there should be a minimum. I am here with my full capacity in the function of the BiH state and I, regardless of the objections, will always say what I think in this Parliament, regardless of who this was and what situation it was in. Today it's like this, tomorrow it's like that, the day after tomorrow it's over with someone else, but I'm asking you to respect each other and allow each other, no offense and no offense, to freely express what we think. The point of my discussion was not to protect anyone, nor can I. The point of my discussion is to say that there is a right to the parliamentary majority, but the parliamentary majority, because it is equally important for democracy, must respect the procedure. That's all I was talking about. And you'll see that in the course of this session, I'll talk about these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18842	Ambassador Mladen Bosić has a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18843	Well, this agenda point is a perfectly normal agenda point. There have been many changes in the congregation's majority here, unfortunately. Many times here in Parliament will be debated about the new Council of Ministers' meetings. It's nothing out of the ordinary, nothing new. And I just have to say that it should be in accordance with the law and regulations. What we're saying is that there is no respect for the legal procedure for the replacement of ministers and two SDS deputies. It is our right, or those people who claim to be illegally removed, because the SDS did not appeal to the Constitutional Court but personally, and we stand behind their appeal and support them in this, it is our right to support people who seek justice in institutions where it is prescribed. As you asked for other grounds for various interventions and appeals in front of the SNSD, i.e. current authorities from the Court of Justice of BiH, so we asked, that is, these people asked the Constitutional Court. We have warned you that the Constitutional Court can make a decision that will complicate this situation. You're ignoring it and trying to complete this procedure as soon as possible. And that's the situation we're in. It's our place to warn you, it's our place to tell you what's going on, what's going to happen, what's going to happen, what's yours to make decisions. Second, the question of the congregation's majority, we are the opposition. And judging by how you react to our discussions, obviously we're a good opposition and we're satisfied with what the opposition is, because that's our job. Our job is not to praise the work of government and government. Our job is to criticize. And we're doing it right. Thank Bog, here is Mr. Belkić's backup and those others who were in opposition, and we will continue to do so. I'll look first of all at the new candidates, because that should be the story. It won't be easy for them. Mr. Tučić, as a candidate to be foreign trade minister, will not be easy to replace Mr. Šarović. And I can say that what I read from his biography, and that's all I know about man, that I don't see that there are qualifications that could adequately replace Mr. Šarović. That's my guess. We'll see what happens after a while. Will Mr. Tučić be able to resist various pressures from various lobbies to which the ministry is exposed, will he yield where Mr. Šarović put the dam and had the courage to reject the proposals of those powerful and large, we will see. It won't be easy for him. How long will he stay in that position and that is the question in this 39-seat Parliament. Here things change from month to month. I've heard a few times from a fellow SNSD that if they don't vote what they're looking for, they're leaving the congregation majority. Here, that was today, so you didn't leave. You probably didn't, as soon as you had the candidates as you suggested. So the situation here is clear. I suppose you have enough hands to vote these people. We expect to correct what she was, which was not in accordance with the law, so our candidates also complained. The problem will arise if the Constitutional Court adopts, confirms our claims that this is not in accordance with the law. We warned you that this could happen and that you wouldn't rush this appointment. You've decided to go all the way and we're where we are. Mr. Marjanac, as Deputy Secretary of Defense, is the man who was in that position. We have nothing against Mr. Marjanac, we hope he will do a good job, because we have heard the best for Mr. Okolić. We have a problem for Mr Dragičević, as far as we're concerned. At the time, the SDS filed a criminal complaint for the avalanche of roads in Srebrenica, and one of the four was also reported by Mr Dragičević. It's our relationship to his candidacy. We have evidence, we have analysis that the roads that were built in Srebrenica, under emergency procedures without any tender, with contract annexes, have been subscribed to our analysis, or experts we hired, for 900,000 marks per mile. And we reported it, unlike Mr. Dodik who says someone told him Mirko Šarović ordered the murder. We reported this case to the D.A. and it's standing somewhere in the drawers. What's going to happen is we'll see, but it's ours to tell you that it exists. So I know that you have most of this, we have no intention of obstructing. We've said enough, I think what I've expressed is clear attitudes. Normally, we won't vote for this proposal, because we're the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18844	Deputy Chairman Milorad Živković's House of Representatives, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18845	Of course, this is a typical example of SDS demagogy where it's asked of all of us to speak with dignity about it and then turn into prosecutors and judges and attack people who have gone through all kinds of procedures here. Demagogy and only demagogy, by the way, and insult. When you say you're afraid, you know every Krajišnik and we're from that neighborhood, when you tell him you're afraid, and even that was the American Embassy, and that's where you insult people. You insult the people of the SNSD, and we'll see at that point of the agenda who's afraid and who has to vote for it. This decision is as clear as the sun and as a tear, and I want to go out to talk about it, if the Constitutional Court has nothing to do here, unless we come to a situation where some of us agree on constitutional court decisions before they come to the Constitutional Court, which I'm afraid of. If you and your SDS colleagues got into this story of making decisions in the Constitutional Court, then we got into a very dangerous field. And I said why I don't think there's anything worse for parliamentary democracy, if this Parliament is... the possibility of a reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. I think that only the fact that Mr. Šarović worked against the interests of the RS and that Mr. Tučić, indisputably, will work in the interests of the Republic, is enough to replace it. Only that fact is enough, and everything else will come, I hope, in these 11 months, to see who's working and who's going to work better. Thank you. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18846	Replica was registered by MP Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18847	I can understand that there is talk here about the interests of parts of BiH, but here is the need to remind you this is the state parliament. The agenda is the appointment of ministers, i.e. deputy ministers at the BiH Council of Ministers. And I ask you to spare us here the guardian of the special parts of BiH, no matter what part it is. State Parliament, is there an interest in BiH here, Mr. Živković? I apologize for referencing you, you were the last to discuss, but your discussion today was not the only one that called for the interest of the RS and the guardians of the interest of the RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18848	Okay. I know that the honourable Member of Hadžiahmetović, to put it this way, is not intentional, but just for the record and the stenogram, the exact name of the point is Confirming the Council of Ministers' Decision, so there is, yes, there is. Word has an MP, Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18849	I thank the chairman. I will take the opportunity to answer this, although the question is addressed to Živković, that it is very important for us because you know that the Council of the Ministers is drawn up and how many RS must give the candidate. And we don't care who these candidates work for, and we didn't ask them to work against anyone. But at the same time, if you think we should tolerate working against the interests of the RS, you'll never get it. Mr. Živković did not ask any of the ministers to work against BiH's interests, but he did, and there was a problem when we have the right to assess and assess it. Because it bothers us to talk about RS in tone as hostile territory, because it is within BiH. And the tone and association says it's hostile territory, and I'm telling you read the Law and it's not irrelevant and it's not written by chance that they're from the RS and how many ministers have to. And we have to take care of it, and we have to have this debate, no matter how much it bothers anyone. The only thing that's democratic is that you have the right to say that it bothers you, too. Here, it bothers me now to do so, because RS ministers are obliged to take care of the interests of the RS, and that does not mean anywhere to work against BiH's interest, nor have I heard it today from any SNSD MP in this whole story. And I'll look back, of course, on the agenda. We welcome the Chairman's decision. It's time to realize it. It's not our fault, I'm sorry it might be in small hours, but this is still a solemn moment. Today, regardless of these dilemmas, the RS will add the full quota that belongs to it. And that is very important for the Council of Ministers to decide in this way, not to use that gap for something else. Of course, we think it's very high-quality candidates, that we support them and we support them today. I just expect the new minister and two deputies to show, especially the new minister, that this particular mile from which it comes, to break the stereotypes of those who came before with some kind of political qualifications that were very hollow, and that was shown. Looks like we've got a lot of work here, obviously for the first time. We expect what has been said today, and I, of course, fully understand the views of the opposition who has the right to speak democratically, and to support the same way that we all keep 41 accounts and I apologize on my behalf if I told someone something that doesn't stand, but as in the story that started, don't expect it, and we started out so that we had to listen to that one SNSD minister is a criminal. And you wonder... we should've felt that insult, we shouldn't have reacted. It's an insult, it's an insult, and that's where it started. He is not a criminal, a respected member, and today we choose another member of the Council of Ministers and that he must listen to qualifications in this House, that his colleague is a criminal. Don't do that if we already want to go back, like everything else that doesn't need to be here, and I followed closely, and that's how it started, and we don't think it should. We have here the Prosecutor's Office, this Parliament, unlike the citizens of this country who have no opportunity, has the opportunity to ask the main institution about these matters, and not to judge, judge, make decisions and send messages of this kind. We think it's, and about abilities, dissatisfaction, quite logical, quite justified. We've asked this question to initiate procedures, but at the same time, as putting these people in their positions deserves the opposition's position. It is also the opposition's move to report all of this to the Constitutional Court deserves our question as well. It also deserves our question whether these people will change the Court in the coming period and not this Parliament? We're afraid of that fact, we don't think that would be good, it wouldn't be smart, that it would be precedent, and that none of us are at the end of the line of interest, with all due respect to the need to take care of procedures and everything. But the call that there are people outside this door waiting for the Court's decision to sit in the chairs I don't think is good. We expect this move to lead to, of course, stabilisation, as far as possible, political opportunities, and that everyone will continue to do their job to what they belong to. The SNSD club will be very pleased today to support their election in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18850	Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18851	Mr. Chairman. One conclusion, which will be agreed by SDS MPs, is that new circumstances have changed. And... we can speak, so we have a new essence of the parliamentary majority. We should give or deny trust. I wouldn't expect you to back it up, but I'm surprised what your criteria are for assessing a person. I am the Honorable Minister Tučić today, the first time we met. I had the opportunity and the pleasure to work on some issues of interest for BiH. I think he worked extremely professionally. If you consider his only disadvantage that he is now 37 years old, I believe that this is an exceptional advantage and I am convinced that he is not burdened with what, if you are in a relationship with the previous one, here I am not going to say anything, but I am convinced that a man with such a professional career will work in accordance with the Council of Ministers' Law, to implement, therefore, the programme objectives of this ministry, do much more to bring BiH closer to European integration. And let's not tell this public a lie about how we protected our homework because we didn't do it. We will face the dramatic consequences of possible arbitration with the Republic of Croatia. Who was the head of the ministry? Who led the previous ministry when the deficit in 2011 and 2012 was higher than in 2010 and 2009 by 700, or a billion KM, respectively. We're for... And what we've negotiated in terms of these goods that we can... Member States do. What are we, which ministry led the transition negotiations and what we did when we were all serious people wondering how it was possible that we at... did not get... but we got it where it absolutely makes no sense and we're not competitive. Or that we didn't get another one? I'm sorry, I have nothing against Biaka or Gradiška. So I believe Mr. Tučić will do it professionally. And those estimates that someone has the capacity of someone... You know what this is about? Political capacity is one thing, professionalism is another. I'm proud of the man who has more professionalism than political capacity. His political capacity will be us in this Parliamentary Assembly, where we will support the positions he stands for. 42 See, you mentioned earlier, you're advocating the rule of law. I've known Mr Dragičević for almost 20 years. You see, the biggest accidents we've ever experienced, this man, as the minister of refugees and displaced persons in the government of the RS, had to be remedied when we came to the highest degree possible isolation and tried in some way to catch up with those donations that were present here in the Federation, where there was a smarter relationship. Now you call him something that man absolutely doesn't have, and you're legalists, it has absolutely nothing to do with it. Whether he was an authorized person, whether he was deciding on this, against which you are obviously not to build a path from Drinjaca to Skelano and from Srebrenica through the Adriatic to the Seklan, or you have misrepresented yourself. Here, I apologize to you if you've mispronounced yourself. But if anyone for any criminal acts is corrupt, or whatever you call, guilty, he should answer. And when the procedure is conducted then it needs to be sanctioned. We can't be here, we can't be judges, we can't be prosecutors, we can't be fair. I'll tell you something else. If I were to tell you now which of your men for this mandate that we are together, which you have set up, I am sick of. I'm not gonna say any names. I'm sick of being called the BiH state parliamentarian, for whom we people have raised our hands here. I'm not going to tell you any names, very well you know and very sophisticated... And now they're talking about Europeanism. I'll tell you, then, more, I'll tell you what you said about the murder. So please nicely, in this country every person who has in any way lost his life must be explored, must be answered, required by..., in any, any, in any sense, because it is potentially the victims of all of us, our children, innocent people in the event of anything. So when you talk about applications and everything else, I believe that when someone puts something like that out, they have full responsibility and moral and criminal when they talk about something like that. It could be, we can't boast of numerous cases of unexplained murders at a time when you were in power. Now let me tell you right now, if any is at the time of the SNSD, everyone should be sanctioned and brought to justice, because it is not one who represents any policy or responsibility for the development of a democratic and legal state. I'll tell you about it, too, and I'll tell you in the end only about the gentleman. So, gentlemen, we have to have the same archaic as this and I'll tell you about Mr. Marjanac. So, the man was in the previous Council of Ministers at the post of Deputy Minister, I think we can build together with the chairman of the Council of Ministers this. The way we're going to do it, I'd like you all to criticize it, both you and me. We're not happy either. We can take a step more, from energy to everything, what this country needs, from environmental protection and everything that needs to be done. It is the interest of both BiH and RS and every citizen. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18852	Thank you. MP Milica Marković has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18853	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I say anything about the proposed one, so before I say anything about a proposal for a name that is on the agenda, let me just correct one incorrect quote that Mr. Bosić made when he said in his discussion that Milorad Dodik had heard from someone that Mirko Šarović was connected to the murder of the late Rista Jugović. He did not hear, Mr. Bosić, but he literally said in the media and in the means of informing him to ask SIPA to investigate the involvement of Mirko Šarović in the murder of Rista Jugović. That's what Milorad Dodik said and you shouldn't be afraid of these circumstances. Let SIPA do his job. If the SIPA determines and presents evidence to the D.A., someone has to answer, and no one has ever been responsible for the murder of that man. If SIPA 43 says it wasn't anybody's fault. So don't place the false here. So much for an incorrect quote. As far as the appointment proposal is concerned, I think it is incorrect today by the SDS to say that people are not even yet, nor confirmed their appointment, to be on individuals here very poor qualifications, due to the fact that the proposed proposals for the appointment of ministers and deputy ministers are actually a proposal from the SNSD and the Socialist Party. And we, although in the RS, have a lot of objections to the functioning of individual institutions, including BiH itself as a state, although when we are asked to make a proposal for appointing, we are trying to be what is best, which is the best quality and people we think they can bear responsibility in the places where they should take and where they should work. I also didn't answer that I would now overly praise some of them, one of them, and I don't know quite enough, but simply to say some objective and realistic facts that are related to this. There's no need for someone not to realize that SNSD MPs praise them because they're two of our three party colleagues. Simply here, MPs vote for ministers and the Council of Ministers, not the other way around. So, we're here in a situation where we only bring out facts if they're correct and relevant. Therefore, gentlemen who will be appointed tonight and taken positions in the Council of Ministers are certainly persons who, in full capacity, will firstly take the responsibility to perform the duties and functions entrusted to them, thus justifying the trust of the people who will give them their vote tonight, or vote for them to come to those places. And SNSD has always done so, and all those appointed or who have been resolved recently in the Council of Ministers should know, especially when it comes to SNSD, that they can be in the Council of Ministers while they have confidence and support above all of the SNSD, when it comes to representatives, or MPs from RS. It should be clear to you in the SDS that, no matter how much you have been promoted and advertised as some kind of speakers, politicians or opposition, it should be clear to you that your ministers, when they lost the trust of the SNSD, can no longer be in the Council of Ministers. And so it will be until 2014 until the election. As it will be later, I think it'll be the same or the same, but since then. That's what the voters will say about it. So, Mr. Boris Tučić's proposals, I don't know the man personally, but I do know that he is a young and perspective figure from the RS who is fully prepared and responsible to take the job. And don't advance the SDS claim he'll do what. We'll have a chance and time ahead to see how and what they'll do in that place. In any case, we from the SNSD Club can guarantee that it will not work to harm BiH, especially RS. What Mirko Šarović was doing was harmful to RS. He may have been good for BiH, but he hasn't been good for RS lately, and that's why he's been replaced. As for Mr Miladin Dragičević, colleagues have already brought out what they know. I know that while the man was a minister in the RS government, many good and good effects of his work in the ministry saw both refugees and displaced persons in RS, but also returnees. And of course, Mr. Marjanac, who was already told by previous speakers, he did this job for a while, proved himself and proved himself to be aware and therefore certainly again and proposed. So I suggest that we say tonight and vote on this, that people start working as soon as possible, and of course the time is ahead of us, that we all appreciate together what the effect of their work will be and how much they will contribute. There's not a little time left for 10 months or 11, as far as they're concerned, and quite enough time to justify what trust we're about to give them tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18854	Ambassador Mladen Bosić, second replica. Here you go. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18855	Well, I only have to look back on this part of the charge that Mr. Šarović ordered the murder and claims of Milorad Dodik that he heard it somewhere and as Mrs. Milica Marković said it was a perfectly normal thing. So what do you think, Mrs. Marković, if I were to go out with the claim that you committed some murder and invited SIPA to investigate it. Is that okay? Is it okay to destroy the lives of people and their families? I know what the reaction is and what caused this story of Milorad Dodik. Well, couldn't he have called your CEO's phone and asked to investigate that murder. That wasn't the intention, that's the bad intention. And don't justify it, it's terrible what happened.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18856	A colleague of Bosić ended up with another replica. And MP Milica Marković has another replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18857	I understand that what will be said tonight about Mirko Šarović, especially in such delicate discussions and in the situation where the RS president publicly invited SIPA to tell her what she knows and whether there is evidence of it. Everyone in this country, believing that this society is still democratic, to which extent it is an open question, but if we start from the fact that it is democratic everyone has the right to suspect something, but the institutions are and, the prosecution, the SIPA, the police authorities, the MUPs and the rest, those who are called and obliged to say whether it is true or not. Certainly not, sir, the president of the RS just came out with such a public view. But here's a relevant institution like SIPA she'll say her own probably and probably run an investigation about it and we'll hear about it, so I don't see why you don't think it's normal for SIPA to do its part of the job or tomorrow the prosecution of Milica Marković, about anyone, to investigate and tell what's going on here and what's going on with some suspicions or, so how many times has it happened that both the RS MUP and the police authorities have filed criminal charges with some suspicions that are listed here, and the prosecution says there's nothing. So don't be afraid, if someone isn't guilty and if he's innocent, related to any murder or any other crime, someone who's competent will say whether there's anything or not. And don't be afraid of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18858	Ambassador Boško Tomić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18859	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I've tried to direct it through the replica in some way and to say that it's still the ceremony part where these people are going to be named. These people, in addition to going through the party infrastructure, through the party structure and proposed, they have gone through both security and other institutions and have been told to meet all conditions, that they are not subject to any procedure that could in any sense harm the performance of functions. Mr. Boris Tučić has been working for 7 years in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, working on extremely important projects, a young man, a perspective, a man who is full and full of desire and knowledge and I don't think he has any reason or concern that such a single person will not perform the role of Minister of Economic Relations and Foreign Trade. Especially in a ministry where, here you say that Mr. Šarović did it well, means that he will be much easier, if it is well done, to continue in 45. I don't want to get into how and how it was done, but I'm sure that Mr. Boris will perform that function perfectly and know what he wants and that he didn't accidentally accept it, that he must have thought about it and consulted with certain people. It bothers me that when Mr. Dragičević was mentioned, the man I worked with in the RS government for three years, who stood up for the most endangered category, it also avoided displaced faces. There's no room, there's no house of maltene he hasn't gone to and where he hasn't tried and helped, both as minister and as advisor to the president. I think I've been in the government for three years now, and I can say it myself, one of my best friends and friends, a man who's always worked in the interests of citizens and the most endangered categories. It's not correct to say he's against him reporting. It can be written down whoever it wants and for whoever it wants, but it needs to be proved whether someone committed a crime and whether criminal charges were accepted by the prosecution. I can't figure out on what basis Mr Dragičević could have done at all, when he was not authorized to sign any signatures or to conduct any tender, or to perform any work, for which he could be responsible. But when a report is written, put as many people as possible to bring a political position as possible, to bring people from a political position to a pillar where people will sort of look at them differently and consider them as people who are unwanted and who work. I can say with full responsibility that I know a man perfectly, that I worked with a man and that he worked for the benefit of these people who are the most endangered. You can't always see that, but here I have a duty to say. I've already said about Mr. Marjanac that he's a man who's already worked in those positions, and I think he'll do great. But I'm saying, let's give it a chance, let's get people named and set up, and then we'll be able to talk about their work. It's not right before we start talking about some things that are objectively unfounded. And I'd ask, I think you are Mr. Bosić, but he came out, guilty allegation, you said he was yours to criticise the government. It's not the government, it's the Council of Ministers, unless you're referring to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so I'd like to ask that we use the right terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18860	According to the secretary of the House of Representatives, MP Aleksandra Pandurević had a discussion and one replica, but you can have another replica, if you like.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18861	Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18862	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18863	I'll have to be shorter then. So, nothing offends us about Mr. Šarović, we all know him very well, but as his friends, we have suffered from what his family has been going through. And it's sad that someone thinks it's normal for someone to come out and say this guy killed that guy, and then that guy's kid is supposed to go to school in the morning, that guy's got a sick mother of a severe heart patient, and that same night, the guy who brought those charges, we watch him cry about his mother passing because he or she said this or that. So it's sad that 46 is such an abnormal behavior for some obviously normal. And we saw how she reacted to SIPA and what both the SIPA and the D.A. said about it and how ready they were to stand behind the allegations spoken. As for Mr. Tučić, I must say that I feel very sorry for the man, because I know the pressures he will face. Mr. Magazinović smiled at Minister Šarović's shift here when I spoke of crime in Banja Toplana Toplana, which was cut by Minister Šarović, he said you discovered hot water. And watch out, there's an international investigation going on about this crime. I'm glad the current director of the spa Toplana decided to cut things off. I asked a parliamentary question and asked how many of this unquality illegally imported mule and he answered me, surprised me, 60,000 tonnes of such a mule of high-suspecting came in, and this agreement for such a mule was given by two predecessors, Minister Šarović. It was Minister Zirojević and who was before Minister Zirojević, I think Minister Puhalac. And that's what we're investigating. It's being run by our D.A.'s office. And I know that such as Minister Šarović has had the pressure to resist in this case in particular, that such pressures will also be given to Mr Tučić. I know that, we were, the other day together, we had a conference here in Parliament that talks about energy, so there we clearly heard the obligations of BiH under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Energy Community Agreement, so our obligations, and they clearly told us at that conference – if we do not meet these obligations, are closed to us, forget it. And one of these commitments says that by 2020 we must increase our renewable energy sources by 1,500 megawatts, which we are unable to do if we give the Italians Drina to count as their national resource. And I know that Mr. Tučić will have strong pressures here. I know that Mr. Tučić, I don't know, will come into an ungrateful situation because today, at the Council of Ministers, we had a phantom Law on Electroprenos, which was sent by an unauthorized promoter, who there was someone, in the ministry, who signed a person and that Mr. Tučić...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18864	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18865	If he wants to respect the law, here I am ending, having to raise the question of the responsibilities of those people who sent such a law just to grab the money from Elektroprenos and direct them to public consumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18866	Ambassador Saša Bursać, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18867	Thank you, Chairman. Well, if I were to get involved a little bit definitely, it wouldn't be my turn to spend a day discussing this.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18868	It's just the first act. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18869	Well, I was thinking, I can't definitely not answer 47.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18870	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18871	Salko, you affected me. Here. You're talking about things, definitely everything and every day these days you SDS are attacking. All in all, you attack in all order, you all think you can comment on everything and everything. There's nothing to say these days about SNSD personnel. And now it's perfectly natural, when someone's in a high position, like these three people will be here soon, when they get into some water like this, it's perfectly natural to be hit. Mr. Šarović was at the most responsible functions in this country and it's perfectly natural to be hit, so not only political insolents, but also the media and the people and everything, and we'll see what's going to happen from all this. She's right in front of us and we'll see. I remember when I was coming to this Parliament then we were here, so after the formation of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Domazet, Vrankić and I and then there, went the property charts and the media that was close to you and who was spoken to you on your part, that and today I believe, came out and said that I was skillfully hiding my property chart because it was empty, and it was empty for only one reason because I definitely had nothing, as I have nothing today, so Bog knows. So, so I definitely want to tell you every living person you're ready to call, and when he touches someone of yours, no, then you jump it's the most honest man in the world. Please don't take care of everything you say, you're definitely attacking SNSD at all levels these days. So there's nothing going on. There's someone in the past sessions while we're sitting here, so the most brutally accused SNSD personnel in Doboj are being replaced in the most disgusting way and Bog knows what hasn't happened all over RS. In the National Assembly not to talk, so, that stage and the pay phone, so you're so much more, let's say, you're stuck, let's not tell you something warmed up, let's say, how much nicer it sounds to you, so, and you're definitely banging all kinds of nonsense, and when something's said...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18872	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18873	Well, slowly, it's not even time yet, what kind of way is that?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18874	Thank you. We've just run out of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18875	You're probably either allergic to me or out loud, definitely.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18876	Bog forbid, thank you. The word has Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18877	Let me just finish my sentence, you've taken away these five seconds.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18878	Here's five seconds. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18879	So you're definitely taking care of everything you're saying. You're wrong, and you're provoking us to call you both when you need to and when you don't have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18880	I'd like to thank my colleague Bursać. The word has an MP, Lazar Prodanović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18881	Miss Pandurević says she regrets Minister Tučić. You do not regret, Miss Pandurević, Minister Tučić, but Minister Šarović. And I don't need you to even think about his lost chair like that. You don't have to regret it like that. I'll tell you one more thing, I'm trying, it's just to not believe that you've convinced yourself of the truth, I can't be embarrassed to tell me how. I am, here's Professor Mirza Kušljugić, my friend, for a long, long time we've known each other, how old you are, I've talked to him, you know he's a professor of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, he's our ambassador to the UN and I've asked him about these renewable energy sources. Look, only a crazy man can think it's possible that a foreign investor will take quotas for green energy sources, and that a country, a national member state, will not use it if it isn't... Secondly, it's part of the Agreement, it's part of the Agreement, you understand. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I say only a crazy man can believe it. If anyone recognizes it, it's his problem, not to waste any time. Now the other thing, I apologize, if anyone would never call themselves a colleague like that. A second question about international investigation and as pressures, all of it. You know, I can't just believe the SDS would like to see no heating in Banja Luka right now. Look, what's the problem? What's the problem if any abuse has to be condemned, but then say it's a conviction, that's a thief, that's what he did and that's what he did. This is how you talk from a comfortable Sarajevo in stories of everyone who exists with everyone in every way possible, it's just a creation of deception and delusion. It's like what happened to the Arab settlement here, asking Aleksandar Arap to sell his property to him, and when he's a minister, not the Arap of that sheik.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18883	Article 71
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18884	I apologize for the expression. But let's just say when Minister Radončić said it was a possible problem, it's interesting that not one word has responded. It's simple to not believe, you know, just to not believe. So, that story about everyone else that they're thieves. And now if I were to talk about what's been left out in that poor one over there, there every part of the RS, I'd be unserious if I spoke to you, names I know and every other... It's unfair to talk like that about everything and everyone. If you were to say what kind of 49 the average salary was now, that would be endless. I won't take your time. It is unfair in this way to change the thesis and try in every way possible to create error in the public. Let's have one.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18885	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18886	that a million SDS invests, to build a power plant if possible, not an SDS, but anyone in this country...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18887	I thank Mr. Prodanović. Mr. Slavko Jovičić has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18888	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would never forgive myself if I didn't answer and not take this opportunity. Well, I don't really know if it's the third or fourth time, I'm going to have to look at the stenograms, the distinguished colleague Pandurević, please, whatever power plant, whatever mogul he has with the confirmation of ministers and the election of ministers in Banja Luka. What more does Mirko Šarović have to do with it? He's been removed, he's been replaced. If he thinks the rights have been violated, he knows in what way and what are the procedures to see who made the mistake. Hello, no more Minister Mirko Šarović, we're choosing the new minister, Boris. Congratulations, Minister. And what does the energy balance on the Drina have to do with confirming the Marjanac election, which has nothing to do with it, is not going to send one unit, not to build a power plant, not an army, nor to save anyone. Honorable candidate Dragičević, no one mentions today, Srbin resented him, and I know, worked on the return of Bošnjak to RS. I, as a Srbin, congratulate, congratulate. How much has the Bošnjak back in RS helped by Mr Dragičević? So do you gentlemen really have Bošnjak, and you have reason to congratulate at least Mr. Dragičević and say thank you. Here I am as a Srbin saying thank you for doing this, because people have the right to return. In the Federation, I can't find a single minister to whom I will honor you. You helped bring back a Srbin. There's not one. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There are who drove them away, but I won't today, because it has nothing to do with confirming this election of ministers, and it has nothing to do with Toplan in Banja Luka, with the heating, with the mule, with the foreigners, with the shift. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18891	kolega Jovičić, let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18892	Well, it was about confirmation, agenda, just warning me.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18893	You have a replica. Who are you replicating to for these federal ministers, no one mentioned it?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18894	...now we involve them, we choose new ones, we confirm them.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18895	Well, that's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18896	I'd say I would, but it's not the agenda, Mr. Chairman, it's the confirmation of the ministers, and that's why I've replicated to the esteemed colleagues of the SDS. You kaniti to be Mirko Šarović, a minister and removed.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18897	Thank you for coming back to the agenda. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18898	You kaniti on RS President Milorad Dodik, this thing will lead to court outside of this House. Are you going to be a mule, hello? And where's the sugar? And sugar, let's sweeten it. Who is that sugar, who took it, so that's the Commission I chaired was and never put the tariffs on the agenda. And the only thing he's done, the honorable gentleman, I really respect him, Šarović, has drawn that law and put it in the process and he's the best. Here's what I am. I'm the best MP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18900	I hope this discussion won't be the source of the replica again. Dear Chairman Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18901	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I have to say that this discussion on this agenda item could have been significantly more correct, more concrete, and more related to the agenda itself and the name of this agenda point. However, it was as it was, what our people would say – it did not snow to cover the hill, did it. 51 Some have touched the SDP during this discussion, so here is at least one of us SDP MPs to say something about our position as well. First, the SDP of BiH is a political party that has its identity, programme, vision and one principle, what it has agreed and what it thinks will contribute to BiH's path in its Euro-Atlantic integrations, be assured when something has agreed that it will try to implement it. Anything he doesn't agree on has no obligation unless we have something to throw away, and it concerns Euro-Atlantic integration. Today, however this election took place, the minister and two deputies, yet one solemn act here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We today choose neither cantonal nor entity ministers, but BiH State Minister and two deputies. When it comes to the decision, I have to say it's perfectly legal and legal. We all read the Constitution and the Law on the Council of Ministers and Rules of Procedure, and we know very well what we are talking about, and we also know the practice of this and the previous mandates, and it is better not to mention what it looked like. However, there was also a debate on the subject. I think that through some constitutional acrobatics we have contributed more to perhaps forming a new legal discipline, legal gymnastics, and this is from the need to the need to choose ministers and who should do it. We'd better not mention what practice it was, because then we'll be able to see in action how it could have been otherwise chosen and done in previous terms. I must say one more thing, it would be good through this item of the agenda and the next that we are all trying to safeguard the dignity and MPs, but also our colleagues and those who are currently ministers and those who will be ministers and deputies of the BiH Council of Ministers. Not only can't, but I have to say this categorically, no one has the right to judge any man in advance until the competent judicial authority proves it. This is not a matter of goodwill or good taste in this House but a fundamental respect for the general declaration of human rights, the European Convention on Human Rights, and all of this, by the way, is also an integral part of our constitutional justice system. So, the SDP's position is clear, we will vote for the appointment of ministers and these two deputies, and of course everyone has the right to express their position. Some spoke today, as this is not the BiH government, it is essentially an executive body at BiH level. In none of Italy's so powerful is called the government but is called the Council of Ministers as in BiH, but no one feels the need to tell whether the Council of Ministers or Government, as they would say in the Far East – whether the cat is black or white, it is important to hunt mice. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting to confirm the BiH Council of Ministers' decision to appoint ministers and deputies to the BiH Council of Ministers. Please prepare for the vote now. Vote now. I realize we have the necessary and general and entity majority. 23 for, 10 against, 5 abstentions. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] At the request of the SDS Club, we will repeat the vote once more. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find, again, that we have both a general and an entity majority. 23 for, 11 against, 5 abstentions. 52 Congratulations to the Minister and Deputy Ministers. I call on the ministers, or the minister and the deputy, is that right, the two ministers to make a solemn statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18904	Declaring
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18905	Declaring
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18906	that I will knowingly perform the duties which I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18907	that I will knowingly carry out the duties that I trust,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18908	to respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18909	to respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18910	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18911	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18912	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18913	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18914	Gentlemen Ministers and Deputy Ministers on their own behalf and on behalf of the House of Representatives, I congratulate you on your choice. [[APLAuz]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please take your seats. Moving to the second item of the agenda, 53 Ad. 2. MPs' questions: (a) Comments on answers received (b) New parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18919	Thank you. I know we're all tired and we're probably wasting time, but we shouldn't go over this part of the agenda, and I think it's very important, so we have to warn again about certain details and work things out. In the last term, the College interpreted the Rules of Procedure as being a member of the 127th agenda. This College, and after that, this Assembly voted that it could not. I, as a legalist, and a man who runs along with my colleagues this House, will accept any decision by the Parliamentary Assembly because this issue has not been resolved by the Rules of Procedure. When the matter is settled with the Rules of Procedure, of course, we will treat it accordingly. In the previous term, we felt that perhaps the reason why we did it was stronger than the Rules of Procedure itself, remember that we were then meant to sign the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and that in this Parliament there was the majority that was for it. I think the greater reason to warn is that by our violation, and we are going to violate the provisions of the 54 Territorial Organisation Act of the Republic of Slovenia, we will violate the RS Election Law if we adopt this law in this way. I think it's only fair to warn yourself that way about what's going to happen. When we talked about fear, what fear any MP can make under the sea have to vote on provisions that knowingly violate both the BiH Constitution and the RS laws. What is the higher power that exists in BiH that makes us work past the law? He'll come after himself. This Law if it passes will come to the House of Peoples – will it be a shame for us to be changed there by this Law, not just certain provisions and minimum technical corrections, but essentially what kind of, what kind of message are we going to give as Parliamentarians here, and we had the opportunity to do otherwise? That is why I think it is good not to give support to this Law and to adopt a comprehensive law at the next session of the urgent procedure. It would be a message to the international centres of power, it would be a message to the House of Peoples, it would be a message to both the Constitutional Court and all those who follow and watch our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18920	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Bill of Salary Law and other fees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial and prosecutorial institutions – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (the First Reading Law) The college failed to agree on the bill's proposal in the first reading. There's no discussion here. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Protection of Secret Information – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18926	We received the opinion of the Commission which did not confirm the appointments submitted by the Bureau for confirmation. The first reason why the list wasn't confirmed is because one of the generals was dropped. One is in the process being conducted at the Ministry, and the other is accidentally or intentionally omitted. Today we received a delivery of the 11.11. Presidency Decision, which was completed and said it was left out by mistake when delivering the Decision on the establishment of professional military personnel. Was the Department of Defense supposed to do it in such a hurry that the presidency probably didn't check, so when it had to confirm all generals one out. Now, if someone wanted to be mean, I'd say it turns out exactly, here's General Polenda Poland off the list. And if we hadn't troubled it yesterday, then he would have been, wouldn't have been confirmed. So that's the first reason it hasn't been confirmed. The second reason why it hasn't been confirmed is because of what we've been dealing with, and as far as we've been concerned, that only 11 generals who have been deposited have met the conditions for implementation into the rank of generals, that is to say, to a certain place. So, the rest, whenever the generals do not have the conditions to be placed in the position of the generals, then one decision of the 2004 Presidency is used at a time when the Law on Armed Forces and the Defence Act was not in force. So, when you look at individual people who do not meet these obligations, you see that a number of them have 40 years of training, that means that they have all the conditions for retirement, which will be rewarded or will be kept by people to spend their third term in the same place in the military, and they have passed the age and should be retired. The second thing, the question of qualifications that generals should have. So no general could have become that unless there was either a doctor's call to science or a command-command academy. So six of them have no conditions to implement the rank of general. We analyzed each of them. It is the kind of decision Parliament will make, but it is very subtle that we are trying to in this state as it is in the Armed Forces, in a situation in which all international forces in BiH have been involved to resuscitate the situation in the Armed Forces, to have an ever worse general crust, and that is why BiH is unlikely to respond to many of the challenges facing it. Should it take more than 70 brigades, as many armed forces as they have, to go to 56 promotions precisely for those who have the worst conditions? That is the question to be answered by this Parliament. But it really discourages the general's positions not being the best, but they, as one of the generals said -- only those who have political support from the SDA and come from, at the request of the SDA Security Commission, can only pass if they are from the Bosniak people's order. It's literally, so I'm quoting what's been said. I can tell you that this has left a lot of controversy and we have very carefully analyzed every person, so eventually the final decision is made by this House. Should the Presidency be told that the future Parliament is not only the one who will raise hands and put an end to it, but should also know that we are doing our part, which is to confirm those who deserve to be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18927	Before I give my word to the next MP, I am obliged to draw attention to the following. Therefore, the agenda item is addressed as we have defined it in the agenda, but the decision was delivered in the procedure on 13.11.2013 for confirmation in accordance with Article 10. Defense law. The relevant Joint Commission on Defence and Security provided the Decision report on 04.12.2013 and the Commission did not support the Decision and proposed to the homes not to endorse the Presidency Decision. Today, we also received a decision from the BiH Presidency on the appointment of Commander 4. The BiH Armed Forces' pedestrian brigade as a complement to the previously delivered decision divided into benches. The word is from a respected colleague, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18928	Here, I will be very brief, so as a member of the Commission, I have been abstained in deciding whether or not to confirm this Decision for the following reasons. So, apart from what I have no obligation as an opposition MP, nor is it my job to solve staff issues at any level and any structure at all, but key, one of the key reasons is why I was restrained is that one of the actors is a procedure, a very relevant and important actor of procedures and actions and deployments to formal places, I mean NATO and EUFOR, said literally – that there are certain shortcomings and not fulfilling certain conditions under domestic legislation, but an exception has been made so we should not do so in the future. So I couldn't accept the variant to make an exception and that's why I was simply abstaining. And when it comes to our report, I think it was unnecessary for this point 2. We are our own, we have made a decision that we do not support the Presidency's decision, and it is up to Parliament to assess how it will proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18929	Thank you. Ambassador Šefik Džaferović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18930	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. 57 It is about the BiH presidency's decision, which arrived at the BiH presidency on a proposal by the defence minister after procedures were respected in the Armed Forces and of course in international forces, or NATO headquarters, which also plays a certain role in the process of this type of appointment. I, above all, want to reject all insinuations at the expense of the SDA, and at least those who have said that affect which of the Bošnjak will be appointed, and we see that this is the only problem and the lady becomes a specialist only in the area. You will never be in a position to decide which Bošnjak will be generals, that you, you need to be consistent and to trouble everyone if you have a problem, and you become a specialist only for Bosniaks and the U.S.A. You wonder why that is. So this decision went through all the procedures at the defence ministry, it was in the BiH presidency. The 2004 Presidential Decision was applied in both 2007 and 2009 and there was never a problem with that side, so this went through here in Parlamettna, and I propose that Parliament, or the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, confirm this Decision. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18931	MP Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18932	So I listed what a Bosniak officer said, quoted him, and I don't make things up, and I don't care who's going to be from the order of the people that I, who I don't have any influence on. But it's amazing that by adopting the Law on Defence and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces in 2006, we're going back, chairing the Constitutional Commission, defending the position, that by adopting a new law that regulates this, we should forget it, we're going back to a presidential decree from when there was no Law on Defence. So it's amazing that we're going back to the old laws and old conditions, and that's what we think is right. So someone can interpret what they want, when it suits us to use and when we have people we don't meet, then we go after the decision from 2004, and when people meet the conditions, then we go to the Law of Defence and the Law of Service in the Armed Forces of 2006. It's amazing that those who are obliged to protect the legality of the work to talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18933	Ambassador Mato Franjičević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18934	Wait, wait, I have a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18935	I'm sorry, it was erased on display, I thought you gave up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18936	I'm not, however, I'm not, I can't give up. So, instead of me competing with an esteemed colleague, I will only challenge her argument that this procedure went through the Ministry, through the Armed Forces, through NATO headquarters, through the BiH presidency and came here before us. The 2004 Presidential Decision was also applied in 2007 and 58 2009, and there are serious interpretations in the matter of the presidential decision and I also do not want to compromise it with my colleague. So, there are all the assumptions that the House of Representatives today makes a decision, the truth is missing, so far the Presidency has appointed another general, we've got a decision, there's no appointment for another general, the procedure is under way, and if that proposal comes I will support this proposal here at the Paramentary Assembly of BiH. Let everyone in this chain do their job. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18937	Ambassador Mato Franjičević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18938	Well, here's something I was going to say, said my colleague Džaferović. This decision, what we have before us, has passed various instances, different bodies to come to us in this form. I do not wish to engage in controversy whether it is necessary to completely ignore the fact that the 2004 Presidency Decision, as it was, was not the law at the time which accurately regulated the conditions. And these people who received that status by the 2004 Presidency decision and the acts were not to blame that there were no precisely defined conditions as they are now, because if they were in that position then they would probably have been different and set up and otherwise, the outcome would have been different. Therefore, they were introduced at that time in full regularity in accordance with the legal conditions which were then in force and in 2004 in this status, and all after that was the consequence of their work and their career advancements. I'm saying it so, and I wouldn't really want this to turn into any controversy. I'm just curious, I'm not a member, and I don't know, I don't really have any information about the course of the session and about deciding at the session of this Joint Defence and Security Committee, with three votes for, one against and three abstentions is not supported by this decision and that's fine, of course. However, this under 2 is an active approach and it requires majority support to be voted. Because this is what the 2nd floor suggested, so – The commission proposes to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes not to confirm the BiH Presidency's decision. This requires active access, it is an active approach and requires a majority in the Joint Commission. That's not where the majority of them are listed. We have the voting results above that, if these results are identical and for this under 2. then I don't see how with 3 votes for, 1 against, and 3 abstentions, can adopt such an active position. Here's so much, and as far as this problem is concerned, I agree completely, of course, that it's about the oversight it's about, I wouldn't want to conclude that it's some kind of obstruction wish, but in any case, one unserious approach, anyway. I'm talking about the Kolend case.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18939	Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18940	So, I thought I was clear on why this is the attitude. In 2003 we had the Defence Act, 2004 was decided by the Presidency. For the simple reason that the acts of the Federation Army and the Army of the Republic of Slovenia would be excommunicated. And that decision was all that mattered. In 2005, a Defence Act was established, which entered into force on 01.01.2006. There was no more reason not to follow the Law of Defence and the Law of Service in the Armed 59 Forces. It's all defined there. However, even today, it means in 2013, whenever we have officers we want to advance and they do not have the necessary conditions we return to 2004, and if they meet the conditions, fortunately Serbian officers have always met the conditions so I don't have to speak on that behalf, then in that case we can schedule them according to the 2006 Law. Well, I think it is, there's no land where there's little use of one law and little of another. With what practice should be interrupted really, because it will be difficult for you to explain to anyone, even if it is the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, to explain how little a law is used, and a little law that has long been out of force.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18941	Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić. If there is anyone else to sign up, except MP Kunić, if not with this, we will conclude the discussion and the replica and the debate, at this point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18942	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I was about to discuss something similar to my colleague Franjičević Mato, precisely because of this vote means here and a proposal to the House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, not to confirm this Decision of the BiH Presidency on the placing of professional military persons on formation posts in the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of BiH. Well, it's a little bit of a discussion that, precisely from this point on, opinions and views within the Joint Defence and Security Commission of BiH are divided, but I say by 3 votes for and 1 vote against, 3 abstentions, that this is, whether, I suggest one very active action to Parliament. I propose in any case that Parliament declares this, regardless of what we say, that at one point we use one law or another law. And here's what we need to stop doing today. We also have the next item on the agenda – Appointment of members of the Office to consider complaints. There's been 16 violations of the law so far. And now, and now they're not... the whole office isn't in line with the law, the whole current director, and we got a memo that came, I don't know either, not exactly channels across you as the Commission, but, I don't know, some parallel channels, where some of our conclusions of Parliament are mentioned, when it comes to that. But here is also the meaning of the BiH Defence Minister, the BiH presidency is included, and I believe that we need today, these are the needs of the BiH Army, and I believe that we should end this today, that these people are set up. Here, we had a chance half an hour ago to appoint both the Minister and the Deputy Minister, therefore, let it go around the team today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18943	The word has an MP, Petar Knić, and then I close this item of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18944	We're very tired, and it's hard at these moments to say that people are rationally judging. I don't think we should do anything outside the law. So my principled attitude is, not only in this regard, but almost all the issues when it comes to these things and any... other, there's no pragmatism here, pragmatic approach, completeness. To fully decide to appoint these people without applying the existing law, I think it is very dangerous by the Assembly, regardless of the authority and presidency, etc. As the law applies to the beggar, so does the members of the Bureau. So, no, and if we're equal in the same situations before the law, then there's no violation of the law, regardless of any interests or 60 wishes, the pragmaticity of solving a problem, etc. The law is the law, the dura lex sed lex. The law can be tough, but it's the law and we have to apply it. So I could never, or I'm not ready to vote on something where there's no existing law, a law that's in force at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18945	I thank Ambassador Kunić. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 10th item of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for the period January - June 2013, BiH Presidency material I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 11th point, Ad. 11. Appointment of members of BiH Appeal Office, Council of Ministers material
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18948	Here's the chairman, I have a memo here. And I do not dispute this, the material that is from the Council of Ministers, but after a deeper little analysis of this memo sent to us, it seems that it did not come today, as Mr. Jurišić said, to those channels that should come, but to some private ones. Based on what I've read here, it's the same situation as from the previous point and a series of these previous points. So, it's just that people are warning us that they're gonna sue us, that they're gonna get us, and we're gonna be the ones who pick these new ones today. And the previous council, where it's said, is never in the competition that was then called for them, in the Decision there is no time for their mandate and here there is a series of arguments, that I am not strangling you with it, I think you all got it. What we should do is, the proposal is to follow the law and warn, here we all are that we should return this to the Council of Ministers, warn them to obey the law and this procedure which we do not delay for some 2-3 months. I don't think we're gonna lose anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18949	Thank you, Ambassador Babalj. 61 I'm closing the debate. We're moving to agenda 12, Ad. 12. Consideration (a) Parliamentarian Milorad Živković's resignation as a member of the Interresor Working Group for the preparation of amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law (b) Appointing MP Darko Babalj as a member of the Interresor Working Group for the preparation of amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law (instead of MEP Milorad Živković) I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda, Ad. 13. Material discussion: (a) Report by the BiH Council of Ministers on the status of gender equality in BiH in 2011, (b) CEDAW: Final observations on Bosnia and Herzegovina's combined fourth and fifth periodic report, (c) The Gender Action Plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2013-2017. year, with the opinion and conclusions of the Commission on gender equality
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18953	...and respecting really that the day is too long and that the schedule has been difficult, I don't blame that you haven't seen it, and don't blame me for not being fast enough, because we're all a little slow. I would only ask my colleagues and colleagues in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to support the Commission's conclusions on gender equality, in the absence of the Presidency, Mr Lozančić. I would like to thank all of you who here today in this Assembly are wearing these tapes on your lapels because you are thus showing that this is a responsible Parliamentary Assembly according to what is called gender equality and the fight against violence against women and domestic violence. We are in 16 days of activists in which the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and thanks to the work of the BiH Gender Equality Agency and our Commission and the decisions of all of your colleagues and colleagues, can be praised by 62 that the six of the 37 countries are signatories of the Istanbul Convention that ratified and laid down instruments of ratification. And that's why we got a lot of support and praise from all over Europe. So once again I call for you to support the Commission's proposals for gender equality and, together with all of us, here I will share some of the impressions that I have heard in passing, that we want the reports on the state of gender equality in BiH not to come before us like this. However, it is not about what the Agency is doing or what the Parliamentary Assembly is doing. This report has stood as far as I know before the Council of Ministers for more than seven months. Where he was before that we don't know. When we have a little more gender issues on the agenda, the situation in our country in this area, then we'll probably get these reports on our desks a little sooner. So once again, thank you very much for wearing these tapes and we hope that this is another sign that we are the gender responsible Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18954	I thank Ambassador Dervoz for bringing in a little more positive and cheerful tones at today's session. We obviously need that more. We're going to the 14th item of the agenda now, Ad. 14. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of National Minorities of BiH I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We are going over one piece of information before we move to the 15th point of the agenda. After the vote is completed, I call on all members of the Joint College to attend one session of the Joint College that should not last longer than 5 minutes, so the extended College, after the session is over, to gather some more energy and to end another important thing, that is to agree on how to end it. We're going to the 15th point of the agenda, Ad. 15. A review of Parliamentarian Senad Šepić's initiative from the 55th session of the House of Representatives, held on 24.10.2013, which reads: "I propose that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives be placed on the agenda of the next session and discuss the topic: The strategic action of the institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the direction of ensuring uniform development of Bosnia and Herzegovina"
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18957	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18958	It's no problem, just on display. Here you go. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18959	Excuse me, two sentences. So, colleagues, I urge you to support the initiative with the conclusions that the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development also adopted yesterday at this session. And these conclusions say we're in charge of the Council of Ministers to prepare our materials and then to determine how and how we're going to conduct this discussion. That's it, I think it's constructive.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18960	Thank you. Maybe just one explanation, just when we get to the voting stage. Here, as far as we know, it's not about one conclusion, it's not about the number of conclusions. One is, so we're both clear. Before we move to the 16th point, I suggest that the House stand out to bring together the debate on points 16 to 21 of the agenda, because it is about giving consent to ratify the agreement. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Vote now. We have the necessary and general and entity majority. Ad. 16. - 21. Giving consent to ratifying the agreement You have received opinions from the Commission responsible for external affairs. I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić signed up for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18962	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18963	Wrong. I understand there are no reports. It's 8 o'clock or 8:25 p.m. Ten minutes or more? Well, it's a 20-minute break. Okay, here's a 20-minute break and then we vote. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18966	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18967	At the request of our colleague, Živković, we have another vote. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I find this bill passed in a second reading. We move to a vote on the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law – MPs from the SDS Club (second reading). We are voting on the draft law in the second reading with the amendment contained in the Constitutional Commission Report. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have both a general and an entity majority and that this law is adopted in the second reading, 30 for, 11 against, 0 abstentions. We move to a vote on the 5th point – The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the draft law on salaries and other fees in the Bosnia and Herzegovina-level judicial and prosecutorial institutions – the proposal of the BiH Council of Ministers (the law in first reading). We vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we do not have the necessary entity majority in the mocking circle and that this law has not been passed. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Protection of Secret Information – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the law in first reading. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have adopted this bill. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Criminal Law of BiH – Proposed by MP Mirsad Đugum (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in real reading. 65 Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we adopted this law in our first reading. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH – Proposing the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. We're voting here on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I realize that we have a general majority, we don't have the necessary entity majority. We don't have a third member of the College, a subsequent alignment. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – the BiH Presidency's decision to place professional military personnel in formation posts at the BiH Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18968	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-1.u18969	Just a little attention, I haven't read it yet. We are voting on confirming the Decision, noting that the Commission has provided a negative report, but the House is now voting on the confirmation of the Decision. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 30 for, we have both a general and an entity majority, I'm guessing we've confirmed this decision. Moving to the 10th item of the agenda – Report __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I've moved on to the 10th point. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
