ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2546	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers and other guests, I warmly welcome you and open the 28th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This session is attended by 14 delegates, of which 4 from the Bošnjak, 5 from the Hrvat and 5 from the Serb people. The chairman of the House of Peoples, Mr. Sulejman Tihić, for reasons justified, is unable to attend the session, so I replace him according to my Rules of Procedure. For the 28th session, I propose the following amended Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 27th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, 2nd. Answer the delegates' questions and new delegates' questions; 3. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 01,02-02-1-10/13 of 20.02.2013; 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the procedure for the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Act No 01,02-02-1- 16/13 of 22.03.2013; 5. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, Material No: 01,02-02-1-40/12 of 27.02.2013; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-51/12 of 07.12.2012; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2/13 of 09.01.2013; 2 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Fund for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-47/12 of 28.11.2012; 9. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-43/12 of 25.12.2012; 10. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-44/12 of 25.12.2012; 11. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency (first reading) – Proposers: delegates Borjana Krišto, Staša Košarac and Sulejman Tihić, Law No: 01,02-02-1-52/12 of 10.12.2012; 12. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Procedure (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-7/13 of 30.01.2013; 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-8/13 of 05.02.2013; 14. Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the Council of Ministers of BiH, material No 01,02-50-19-304/13 of 07.03.2013; 15. Work report and financial report by Bosnia and Herzegovina Post Office for 2012, material number: 01,02-29-325/13 of 14l03.2013.; 16. Report on the work of permanent committees at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2012: 16.1. Report on the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2012, material number: 02/1-50-8-22-24/13 of 30.01.2013, 16.2. Report on the work of the Commission on Finance and Budget of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2012, material number: 02/3-50-8-24-13 of 16.01.2013, 16.3. Report on the work of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2012, material number: 02/2-50-8-23-11/13 of 16.01.2013; 17. Report on the work of joint permanent committees of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly 2012: 17.1. Report on the work of the Joint Defence and Security Commission for BiH for the 20012th year, material number: 03-50-19-954/12 of 22.02.2013, 17.2. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Oversight of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency for the 20012th year, material number: 03/2-50-14-8-8/13 of 14.02.2013, 17.3. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on European Integration for 20012 years, material number: 03/4-50-14-10-12/13 of 16/01/2013, 17.4. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development for 20012 years, material number: 03/3-50-14-9-10/13 of 21.02.2013, 17.5. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics for the year 20012, material number: 03/6-50-14-12- 21/13 of 19.02.2013, 3 17.6. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs for 20012 years, material number: 01,02-50-19-954/12 of 22.03.2013; 18. Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2012 and the Plan of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2013, material number: 01,02-50-19-216/13 and 01,02-50-19-216-1/13 of 12.02.2013; 19. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2012, material number: 01,02-50-19-249/13 of 21.02.2013; 20. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2012, material number: 01,02-50-19-262/13 of 22.02.2013; 21. A report from the workshop on the subject: "The Defence and Security Sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina – a year later", with a proposal for conclusions, the Joint Defence and Security Commission material of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-1182/12 of 25.01.2013; 22. Report on the functioning of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011, document of the Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-47-238/13 of 18.02.2013; 23. The appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the ranking of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's home for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH, material number: 01,02-24-1-1374/12 of 13.12.2012; 24. Appointment of a member of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio Television Service from the ranks of the other BiH Regulatory Agency, material number: 01,02-34-1-231/13 of 18.02.2013; 25. The appointment of one member from the House of People in the Interresor working group for the construction of the Law on Political Parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Ministry of Justice, number: 01,02-34-1-186/13 of 06.02.2013; 26. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Ensuring Agency, material number: 01,02-50-19-341/13 of 20.03.2013; 27. Proposal for a Decision establishing the Ad hoc Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to implement the process of appointing members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Communications Regulatory Agency, delivered by the Council of Ministers, link: act No: 01,02-29-148/13 of 05.04.2013 and corrected text, link: act No: 01,02-29-148/13 of 11.04.2013; 28. Consideration of Halid Genjac's initiative from the 26th meeting of the People's House, held on 17.01.2013, which reads: "Information on preparation for the census and households in BiH (acquaintment of census looks, list financing, data input and processing solutions, implementation of the information campaign, cartography etc.), material number: 02-50-6-16-26/13 of 17.01.2013; 29. The Commission's report to the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on granting approval for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on tourism co-operation, BiH Presidency material, issue: 01,02-05-2-1431/12 of 24.12.2012; 30. Approving the ratification of the Grant Agreement under IPA 2010. – National programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Part 1 – Water and sewerage in RS 4 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, BiH Presidency material, issue: 01,02-05-2-331/13 of 15.02.2013; 31. Giving consent to the ratification of the extradition treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, the BiH presidency's material, number: 01,02-05-2-379/13 of 22.03.2013; 32. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission and the Joint Governing Body located in France concerning the integration of funds from the Instrument of Pre-accession Assistance within the Mediterranean Transnational Programme for Assistance from the European Regional Development Fund under the European Territorial Co-operation Goal (Separated Management), the BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-380/13 of 22.03.2013; 33. Giving consent to the ratification of the 2011 IPA cross-border co-operation programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission – Croatia under the IPA cross-border co-operation component for 2011, the BiH presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-389/13 of 26.03.2013; 34. Giving consent to ratification of the 2011 IPA cross-border co-operation programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission – Montenegro as part of the IPA cross-border co-operation component for 2011, BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-390/13 of 26.03.2013; 35. Giving consent to the ratification of the Supplement to the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on the Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border programme – Montenegro in respect of the IPA component of cross-border co-operation for 2009, material of the BiH presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-391/13 of 26.03.2013. It's a proposed agenda. Is anyone answering for a word with the amendment or supplementation proposal? Here you go. There are no reports. Since this is a harmonised agenda for the College of the People's House, I find that the agenda has been adopted and is not voted on, in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 27th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. We're moving on to a record statement. Here you go. Thank you. I find that in the first round, of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates were in favour. From Federation 9, from Serbian 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that the record from the 27th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been adopted. We're going to point two, five Ads. 2. Answers to Legislative Questions and New Legislative Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2549	...the chairman. I just want to say that I'm happy with the answers I've been given to questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2550	I'm thanking you. Dear colleague Krstan Simić came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2551	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased with the answer to the question, but I did not ask this question to find out this information, because I have asked it precisely for my assessment that we have large gaps in the organisation of the judiciary in this area. If you have followed this table, you have seen how many days BiH citizens have spent in unfounded detentions. It's a huge number of days. And I have to remind myself that often and under pressure, so I'll feel free to say, and the media, when some kind of affair occurs, people are being held in detention longer than necessary, and we all know that detention lasts as minimally as possible. On the other hand, it also exposes us to certain costs. You saw in this data that BiH, or individual levels of government, had an obligation to pay over a million marks of compensation to people, although these fees are symbolic of what they lose. And what I particularly wanted to see is that the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is also getting information about courts where such failures occur. If you followed this analysis you saw that a small court, in a small place called Sokolac, appeared 22 times as a judicial institution that determines very, very, I would say, free custody and in 22 cases these detentions were unfounded. 6 The purpose of my question was this: that the authorities should consider this question, that detention should be reduced to the measures required by the law, that the needs of the procedure, the Convention on Human Rights, and that the damages should be reduced. And that, of course, the High Judicial Council also analyses the courts in which these gaps are the most, Sokolac, and the Court of BiH, in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2552	Thank you. The word came from a respected colleague, Hasan Bećirović. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2553	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to say, I'm not happy with the answer. If you please, I would only remind myself that my questions were to the governments of the entity – in which way and which body exercises control over the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises on the conflict of interest in public enterprises. Unfortunately, I have to say that, based on these answers I have received, my doubts have been confirmed that this job is absolutely not done in any entity, that the conflict of interest in public enterprises, I would say, entirely on the margins of the interest of all organs. And to be very interesting, instead of the government, the answers even sent me certain public enterprises from the Federation, or from the RS, the government says, there's all right, we do it, it's great there everything. That's why I think the area deserves special attention. I insist on answers to a concrete, precise question. I asked the question – Which authority, in what way, is overseeing the implementation of the provisions of this law? And I insist on getting answers from entity governments. But it's indicative, once again, that this area in entities is absolutely not being paid any attention and that it's just public enterprises, and this is confirmed, very, I would say, investment places for corruption and the provision of state capital in these public enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2554	I thank Mr Bećirović. I expect this question to be answered again, if I understand correctly, Mr Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2555	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2556	Thank you. For a word, once again, do any of the delegates still have the need to comment on the answer they received? There isn't. Can we move on to a new order of questions? Thank you. A dear colleague, Stjepan Krešić, came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Krešić. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2557	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. The highway to Corridor 5c, the southern border of BiH from Bijaca to Zvirovići node near Capljina, is done as planned and if Bog so will be released in 2014. A year, so, by the end of next year. The further route is disputed by the Zvirovići knot towards Mostar, meaning crossing over Neretva, the bridge was planned south of the Holiday. The route has been disputed and the northern crossing over the Holiday is proposed. My parliamentary question, because we expect the highway to continue to be built after 2014 from the Holidays towards Mostar further towards Sarajevo, my representative question is – Is a new route of highway located and projected north of Počilac? Normally, I ask the Council of Ministers, the competent ministry, to get this question as soon as possible, to see if the documentation has been prepared to continue the highway in 2015. The second parliamentary question – Did the BiH Council of Ministers, in its jurisdiction, of course, plan to obtain a candidate for this summer season? It is known that last summer was extremely dry and that it burned down forests in equivalent to over 10 canadians. So it's still on time, if it's already been done to make the Council of Ministers with competent entity governments prepare and get one or two canadians to prevent the disaster from happening again last summer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2558	Thank you. Next, a distinguished colleague of Staš Košarac came forward. Here you go, Mr. Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2559	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome my colleagues and colleagues, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and other representatives of the Council of Ministers and other agencies. The issue asked to the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice of BiH, which reads – How many cases since the establishment of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice have been excluded from entity prosecutors, i.e. courts, and all in accordance with Article 7(2). The Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, as well as how are these cases excluded? Please show the same numerically, as well as to separate the data relating to point (a) and point (b) of this attitude. In what way did the BiH Prosecutor's Office find out that crimes were committed that would be appropriate, or applied in accordance with Article 7(2). The Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, i.e. whether the cases were dropped by entity prosecutors or the BiH Prosecutor's Office has been acting on its own initiative and has requested the exemption of cases from the jurisdiction of entity prosecutors? If the second part of this question is a valid answer, how did the BiH Prosecutor's Office find out that such a case exists in entity prosecutors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2560	I thank my colleague, Košarac. Dear colleague Nermina Kapetanović came to the floor. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2561	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the media. I am the first to submit a delegation initiative today, it is addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, which is the initiative to oblige domestic milk producers at BiH level to make a number of indications on the packaging – how many times is the milk recycled to protect citizens, especially children? In my explanation, I'd like to say that after its expiry, the milk returns to production, recycling and returns to the market. Given that citizens are not familiar with the production of milk, and in order to protect the health of all citizens, and especially children, I submit this initiative in order for the competent institutions to come to know the public in a transparent manner with the milk production processes and the number allowed, by health, the milk recycling procedures. I want to say off the record, and that, therefore, can be forwarded to my question, that on the bottom of each milk pack there are cubes, a series of cubes shown in different colors. Only one BiH producer means the number of recycled products, whether it's 3, 4 or 5 times, which I've convinced myself, I've carefully investigated. But I believe that the Bosnian Herzegovic public, esteeming their own life and their own health, has the right to know what it buys. What do red, yellow, green, orange and black squares which are on the lower side, so well hidden from the customer's eyes, what do they mean? I'm asking the Foreign Trade Ministry to explain it to us first in response. And secondly, I want this initiative to be a completely different approach and to allow citizens to maintain their health by choosing healthy product purchases. My second question was addressed to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat. On the internet, I came up with data that the secretary of the Joint Service has submitted a request for the allocation of funds to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of 500,000 marks, calling for a discussion between the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Why are the funds of the reserve being sought after three months of the adoption of the BiH institutions' budget law for 2013? Why is the legal procedure not respected, i.e. A positive opinion from the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury and the BiH Legislative Office should be obtained before? With the request in question, as far as I know as a member of the Administrative Commission, I do not think that the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, which is responsible for the Budget of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, is aware, and should give consent to the request under the Law on the prescribed procedure. Why has the admission of new employees been made if no budget appropriations are provided for that purpose, and are employed, although we have said we will not receive new employees from day to day in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, new persons appear. Why are the funds from the budget reserve, among other things, sought for the purchase of three vehicles with a plan(?) The price of 105,000 KM per vehicle? And my third question, once again, I ask the College of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH – I kindly ask the College of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to provide me with a complete list of employees and civil servants in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, which will include: the name and last name, the name of the job, completed professional training, the position of 9 seats and the necessary conditions for that post, as well as the name of completed professional training of each employee and civil servant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2562	I thank you, too. Mr. Mladen Ivanić came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2563	Recently, a ruling by the Court of Justice of BiH was annulled in the Constitution of the BiH Court for unlawfully collecting evidence from the handling prosecutor, so it reminded me of the subject on which I, here I think for the third year already, insist and will not forget it until the end of the term of office, so now again the question of the College of the People's House – Has OHR made clear on the request of the College to submit an analysis of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2564	Yeah, we often don't see wood in the woods, so this certainly isn't a special case, I can say in the name of the College at this point that's it, and I think my colleague Čović and I will provide a written reply. Dear colleague Mr Dragutin Rodić came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2565	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. My delegate question will be addressed to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which concerns the acquisition and use of academic and professional titles, and their use and recognition across and outside BiH territory. Reason: In the RS, a working group was formed in 2011 to draft a law on titles that ended its work in September 2011 and prepared the framework text of this Act for further procedure. Meanwhile, the working group on the draft regulation on the use of academic titles, the acquisition of professional and scientific titles in BiH, whose text has defined the most important issues in a significantly different way in this area. The Ministry of Education and Culture of the Republic of Slovenia, estimating the need for harmonisation and legal solutions on the whole of BiH's territory in terms of academic titles, temporarily suspended the procedure for the adoption of the Law until the adoption of that Regulation. According to my findings, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs is in the final phase. I think it is necessary to look at all aspects of existing problems because the lack of clear regulation in this area creates problems in practice and a whole series of concerns when adopting the Regulation on Organisation and Internal Systematization in various institutions. 10 The question is – at what stage is the making of the Regulation on the use of academic titles, the acquisition of scientific and professional titles in BiH, and when could its adoption be expected? I'd like a written answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2566	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. The word came from delegate Borjana Krišto. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2567	Thank you very much. Dear vice-presidents of the chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected Council of Ministers Presidents with all directors, deputy institutions and agencies in BiH, respected and respected guests, media representatives, I warmly welcome you all. My question is being sent to the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers, which reads. In some ways, by reading and considering the report on the work of the Council of Ministers and state institutions for 2012, in particular in this case, the report on the work of the Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts, which states that the Agency is based on its work on the law-defined competences with particular importance to activities in the establishment of a DNA analysis laboratory. It is known that there is a problem with donated equipment because the same equipment has been donated by the European Commission since 2009 and it has not been used in some way, it is still in the Federal Interior Ministry today. My question is - what did the Ministry of Security of BiH and the Council of Ministers do about creating conditions for donated equipment to the Agency and, in full capacity, put itself in office? As part of this issue, I will point out that since 2010, the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has committed the institutions, meaning to ensure and resolve this issue. My second envoy issue also concerns similar issues and also concerns the accommodation of state institutions. Namely, the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency belongs to a number of major state agencies, which, under the law, are founded, in fact to prevent the impact of corruption on the development of democracy and respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms, as well as the impact on the subjugation of economic and economic development of BiH,... of all other impacts on social values, as well as the coordination of the fight against corruption. It is evident from the above that it is an institution which is of particular importance for the general and social interest and which is in the service of all peoples and citizens in BiH. Unfortunately, however, the problem of accommodation, equipment and functioning is present today and it certainly affects the work of this Agency. I ask and direct my question to the Council of Ministers – How does it intend to address the issue of adequate accommodation for the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, so that it can function fully in accordance with the competences and tasks set out in the Law? Thank you very much. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2568	I thank you, too. A distinguished fellow delegate, Krstan Simić, appeared in the word. Here you go, Mr. Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2569	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear citizens, it seems to me that the decisions and procedures of the Brcko District institutions later and, on the one hand, by eradicating the entity citizenship of citizens in the Brcko area have led to violations of the constitutional legal system in the area of citizenship of the District, and on the other hand there has been discrimination, because the citizens of the Brcko District, unlike others, have no more citizenship of entities, which is in question the right to be elected and elected in the territory of the entity. So I ask the Council of Ministers or the Resolute Ministry – did he do anything to question these issues? If it isn't, will it also take time not to open a new problem to the upcoming elections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2570	Thank you too, Mr Simić. Next came a distinguished colleague, delegate Krunoslav Vrdoljak. Here you go, Mr. Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2571	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I have one very practical question, otherwise I like such questions, not more than political, because they are life and ultimately our whole life consists of it. In fact, I would like to refer the question to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and it is said that I will give one explanation shortly after that. At the annual level, around 1,200 tonnes of livanje cheese are produced in the Lithuanian Canton. It is mostly placed in Central Adriatic tourist destinations in the Republic of Croatia. More than 800 employees are directly or indirectly engaged in this production. Since 01.07. this year, the export of Lithuanian cheese has been completely disabled, and the existence of entire families is at stake. The Food Safety Authority is trying to provide a professional overview of the plant and the facilities for the production of Lithuanian cheese through the EU competent authority, however, this is obviously going very slowly and very slowly. How much is the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations involved in solving this problem? And here it is not only that Lithuanian cheese but it is a lot of BiH-wide producers who are in this situation. The situation now, as far as I'm aware of this issue of Lithuanian cheese, is next. This Food Safety Agency has submitted a request in Strasbourg to the EU competent authority to come by their expert commission and to examine whether those plants in Livno and the milk producers produced, or made of cheese in those milkers, meet the standards. The last answer, these people in Strasbourg, was that this commission will be out in 2-3 months, please, I think. It is only now that we have submitted that it will come out in 2-3 months, and that we have not thought of it before, and we have concluded that we need to submit this request, we knew that CEFTA ends with 01/07, it has been there since 2008 when we signed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and when this aneks III 12 was said - Croatia's entry is no longer CEFTA but has this Annex III of the Agreement on EU-BiH Relations on Exports, or another import annex. That's why I'm asking that question because I'm saying it's not just a matter of Lithuanian cheese, and let me remind you, I don't know who's not here in the gym tried the Lithuanian cheese so far, and the most working milkman has already announced a job cancellation for half the workers. Another dairy that produces also significant quantities has already generated a drive in Trilj, so across the border in Croatia and there will produce approximately this milk cheese from Croatia and will not be called Lithuanian but will be called something different, a quality cheese that will be similar to Lithuanian. So we have all the prerequisites, and that cheese has been produced since 1886 in this form and in this technology. We have every prerequisite to stop producing it, and something like this I have... which they say will happen. Because if this one cancels half of the workers that produce the most, transfers production to Croatia, we are not clear we will produce for BiH which is a very small market and of these 1,200 tonnes 80 and over 80% of that cheese is placed in Croatia. So, I think that the Council of Ministers should be fully involved, and in particular this Ministry of Economic Relations, the external trade should be included to assist this Agency, whichever agency should speed up these proceedings and that this does not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2572	Thank you, Mr. Vrdoljak. It looks like it'll be cheese for Serbia as long as you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2573	For Serbia, maybe.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2574	Yeah. No further participation in the discussion has been reported and I am concluding this agenda item. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples You have received a request from the BiH Council of Ministers to discuss the draft law supplementing the Law on the indirect taxation system in BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. At its 43rd session, held on 28.02.2013, the House of Representatives accepted this request to discuss the draft law supplementing the Law on an indirect taxation system in BiH by emergency procedure and adopted the Law. I'm opening a hearing, so whether or not an emergency procedure is needed. Here you go. 13 No reports reported. I'm closing the debate. Now we move on to a plea, i.e. we are voting on the procedure, whether or not the draft law will be discussed by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Here you go. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 11 delegates voted in favour, no one was against, and 3 delegates were abstentioned. From Federation – 7, from Serbia – 4 was for, from the Federation – 2 abstentions, from Serbia – 1. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Council of Ministers' request to discuss the Bill's proposal to supplement the Law on an indirect taxation system in BiH was adopted by an urgent procedure. Since the request has been passed, I am opening a debate on the bill's proposal. Here you go. No, I'm sorry, dear colleague Nermina Kapetanović answered. Here you go, Mrs. Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2576	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the bill's proposal, the Proposer, I believe in good faith, says that, among other things, in the reasons why it proposes such a text of the Law, or amendments, it proposes that operational managers, or assistant directors, argue that they assist the director in carrying out his duties, that he also sets them up and solves them, and that both operational managers, or assistant directors, are proposing to be appointed for a period of 4 years with the possibility of re-establishing another four-year period. This is justified by the intention of creating conditions for the smooth organisation of legal, efficient execution of operations, which are within the authority of the administration through more efficient functioning in all systems and areas of action. However, an undisputed impression is being imposed, and trying to recall, therefore, what was happening here in the delegate benches here and here and at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and delegates on several occasions tried to, and pointed out the need for thorough amendments to the Law on the indirect taxation system. And there were such discussions, but these were the proposals of the MPs to fully approach the change of the indirect taxation system. So, in a whole way, and especially in terms of giving greater powers and competencies to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Council of Ministers in relation to the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board. This intervention on the law, only with regard to staff changes, is not enough for me, because it necessarily raises the question whether the existing ruling majority is now given full control over the functioning and work of the Directorate for indirect taxation. I believe that this and that small part of the current, existing independence of the Administration would be lost by creating absolute political control over the work of the Administration. And I don't think that's good, and that's why I won't support the proposed law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2577	Thank you, Mrs. Kapetanović. A distinguished colleague, delegate, Mehmed Bradarić, came forward for the word. Here you go, Mr. Bradarić. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2578	Gentlemen Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Chairman, the other guests, good afternoon and I warmly welcome you all. I strongly support this law for a very simple reason. A few days ago we had an action codenamed "Panama" and we saw that 11 customs officers were arrested, people imported 3,000 tons of coffee under the clay, and I'm sure all that work couldn't have been done without the director of operatives. We've had this kind of action before, and there have been even those who have done this before, so again thanks to the directors back to work, and we don't know today how many times they repeat it, etc. I responsibly argue that if there is corruption, if there is crime in the BiH state, it is the largest there. Just take the fictitious companies that are doing business, they're fictitiously exporting goods from BiH, so here's the clay, and I don't know what, and I think last year the loss after the return of VAT funds was about eight hundred million to a billion, and that's the money we're asking the IMF for right now. So we have that money just needs a little more responsibility. At the terminals, we all had a certain experience, what customs officers do. Imports of cars are tax-free, you have to wait from 8 to 12, no one in front of you has and you have to wait to give 50 marks to just record the man that you imported the car, etc. We had indications from the Office for Audit, the last time the Commission for Budget and Finance held a hearing of people from the Directorate for Direct Taxation, who, according to their suspicions, carried out a sales contract that is at risk, is about fuel, which is at the expense of BiH. I have, these days I've got a letter from the indirect tax administration, I have no idea what to do with me, I guess because sometimes I talk to you, but one of the high-ranking people at the IRS is the head of a customs station at one crossing, talking about crime, corruption, again his high-ranking colleague, etc. So, I have it documented, is that how I don't go in, they're going to question whether it's like that, after all, and the competent institutions. So we can't wait for everything to be done. This is not the politicization of the IRS, if it is, it would be the politicization of a politicized administration, a politicized administration. We all know that the Direct Taxation Authority is home to carefree politicians and those who recently lost their jobs here, went there to the Directorate for indirect taxation, etc. So, they really need to change the operational, operative directors to know that they know that they can happen to be responding. And I'm sure that that would strengthen the responsibility of all of them, so here's the director of the administration who's trying to do something, we're all witnesses of it, but he needs to be supported. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2579	Thank you. An esteemed colleague, delegate Krstan Simić, came forward for the word. Here you go, Mr. Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2580	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I had no intention of discussing it, but the clagort for this discussion just gave me a discussion of Mr. Bradarić. We all know what's going on and what's going on in that system and in the 15 war and war system, in the customs system. However, I will remind the late journalist Perica Vučinić, one of those legendary ones who created Belgrade's "Vreme“, later made a "reporter“, who said and wrote in one place – unfortunately in these areas the fight against corruption comes down to replace the corrupt and bring the corrupt back to the same place. If this sentence is correct, and it is very, very indicative, I fear that it is not enough just this, this legal solution, which I support, which in a certain way represents only one segment of the fight against corruption, but that it is necessary in these institutions, where often because of the pounds of steak, the oxen should be slaughtered, and some other measures should be taken to prevent corruption in these institutions. There are huge areas in which you have, you have seen recently trade in Chinese, Turkish and other laundry, that millions are spinning, Anesa Sadiković, who was arrested. It is known to everyone that there is an organized system whose octopus has reached and has not been able to pass without the support of the people of the institutions involved and who are obliged on the one hand to prevent and on the other hand to collect taxes. I support this Act but I believe that very quickly institutions dealing with the customs of goods within the system should also make their action programmes to prevent it. It would be good even to provide for such individuals to introduce property records and to in some way open a story that would show to a large extent the status in the material sense of those persons doing those jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2581	Thank you, Mr. Simić. No one has reported any further participation in the discussion, so I am concluding this discussion. We're moving on to a plea. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, this microphone might turn it down a little bit, and I'm even as uncomfortable as, I don't know if it's too loud... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2585	I'm generally against urgency, and I don't usually support you, and especially I can't understand that we're looking for the law here right now, this law by emergency procedure when we're 10, 12, or I don't know how many years we've worked as old, I don't see the world breaking what the Council of Ministers is now insisting... on an emergency procedure, which is not going in regular procedure as a perfectly normal law that can be discussed as any other law. And that's why I won't be in, I'll be against an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2586	Thank you, Mr. Ivanić. A distinguished delegate, Mr. Halid Genjac, came forward. You're welcome, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2587	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The emergency procedure means that not a single comma can be changed into a text that has been received and usually means text of that volume, of content, that it is tolerable, so it is understandable that it is simply clear and of course nothing can change, not even a decimal. Given that, I don't think we have the conditions to consider this law by emergency procedure for the following reasons. Article 19.b) of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law states the following: the ratification procedure of international contracts shall apply when the international contracts are concluded, etc. I think this is a mistake that, of course, I can't argue for which reason it was created, but such a mistake eliminates the possibility of the law being considered by an emergency procedure. This chapter was probably meant here – The process of ratification of credit agreements, and here it was thought of, in Article 19.b) the process of ratification of credit agreements applies when closing. So, I think that mistake, which the chairman has already agreed with her, 17 has produced one problem, so we're going to have to see, let's probably look at it in an emergency or a shortened, not an emergency, but a shortened procedure we're considering. On the other hand, as far as this Law is concerned, I think that Article 19.f) which establishes by this law the obligation for all institutions involved in the ratification process to schedule emergency sessions in order to conduct an emergency procedure, I think it is a problematic issue and that this should be considered during the amendment phase. The obligations of the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and the Parliamentary Assembly to meet set up a Rules of Procedure on certain issues. As far as international contracts are concerned, I think it is very difficult for him to establish a commitment to the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly to schedule emergency sessions. For those reasons, I think you should see for real, because I think there are enough clear reasons that we can't go into emergency procedures and that's why I'm going to be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2588	I thank Mr. Genjac. A distinguished colleague, Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović, came forward. Here you go, Mrs. Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2589	Chairman. Respecting and agreeing entirely with all of Mr Halid Genjac and Mr Mladen Ivanić's instructions as to why the law in question should not be considered today by an urgent procedure, is the fact that in the proposal for amendments and additions, which relate to Article 19. The law, i.e. in view of the fact that in the applicable Law on the procedure for the conclusion and execution of international contracts, this procedure for the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts is laid down in Articles 13 to 17. If by any chance the Proposer had remembered that, behind Article 19.f of this Bill, a new member would have added the possibility that the ratified international contract had legal power above all the laws of BiH, the laws of its entities, the Federation of BiH, the RS and the law of the Brcko District, or that the presumed variant that the ratified international contract had legal power above all the laws in BiH would have opened up some space to, as I would say, be more serious to access this Law. It is also controversial in Article 22 because, by chance or on purpose, it has left out the possibility of entering Article 22 behind the words – in accordance with, the Vienna Treaty on Contract Law was to be introduced. This has not been done, has not been governed by the provisions, has not been taken into account by the provisions of this Treaty within the meaning of this Act and the Ratification Decision. And if it had been written -- that an international contract would have entered into force for BiH in accordance with the Vienna Convention on Contract Law with the provisions of this Treaty and the Decision on ratification, the more serious legislators would have taken these amendments and perhaps easier to raise their hands for urgent, urgent intervention. I am prepared, therefore, to discuss the measure of the Law to give an explanation, but this is only an explanation for determining the way of the discussion. So, I can't support the urgent way of 18 discussions, and I'll talk about the measure of the law later in terms of the explanation of what I just said about Articles 19 and 22. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2590	Thank you. For the sake of explanation, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the esteemed Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda, reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2591	In the absence of Mr. Foreign Minister, who proposed to the Council of Ministers, I will try to respond. It's not about peas. Since it's not just credit arrangements long in procedures, it's everybody else. You are witnesses to the Council of Ministers' work and to have materials in the Bureau for a year and a half. This is a simple way to get faster and faster things that matter. It was an emergency, and it's not a mistake, and it's not just about credit arrangements, it's about all international agreements.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2592	Noting that the Parliamentary Assembly gives final interpretation of the acts it adopts. So, I conclude that there are no applications for discussion, I apologize, Mr. Genjac, you used your right to discuss, what is this?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2593	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2594	Can you change that, then? An esteemed colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac, appeared to correct the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2595	The Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, I think this should be clarified. Namely, you have the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the procedure for the conclusion and execution of international contracts. All the provisions that have existed so far remain in the Law, and they regulate the general ratification of international contracts. Amendments to Article 19, which speaks in place of the Treasury Act, are now subject to the laws on borrowing, debt and guarantees, and that is fine. And now Article 2 is saying to add a new chapter, Chapter VI A) – The process of ratification of credit agreements. So, a new chapter that only talks about credit agreements. And in this chapter, therefore, an exception is made, exclusively from the provisions of Articles 13 and 17 which generally refer to international contracts, to the process of ratification of credit agreements, the provisions of this Chapter shall apply. And then in Article 19.b) is further..., so the ratification process, at least put here, applies to international contracts when the international contracts are concluded. Therefore, the process of ratification of international contracts applies when the conclusion of international contracts taken over by 19 BiH credit and other financial means. Given the purpose and intention of this chapter, it could only be the process of ratification of credit agreements, as this is the title of this chapter, applies when the conclusion of international contracts that BiH is taking over credit and other financial assets. I mean, I can't understand it differently, but of course, the law in the form in which it is adopted in an emergency procedure cannot be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2596	Thank you. We give our word to our colleagues, ognjen Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2597	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I came forward for a simple reason, so I wouldn't have to usurp the opportunity to comment on what Mr. Genjac was talking about, and with the intention of avoiding, therefore, any public assessment or someone who's in the audience of today's session, that it's some kind of hasty thing, or that it's some sort of back-to-back business that's supposed to cut something over his knee because there's some kind of political will behind it. So, we have today, among other things, a report on nomotechnics and all the things that are related to these parliamentary procedures, the making of laws and everything else, so we will probably have the opportunity to conduct certain discussions on the way the laws are prepared and all the expensive things that Mr Ivanić is talking about – reasons for urgency or what Mr Genjac is talking about – the principle, as I would say, of perfection when it comes to the urgent adoption of the law. However, this is not about any material breach of the principle of this nor of this norm, as it is about Article 19.b) which I will do again, I say, of the possible public interest here for a short time: "The process of ratification of international contracts applies when the conclusion of international contracts which BiH assumes credit and other financial commitments, credit arrangements." It is obvious that the promoter here was referring to contracts concerning Article 19a, given the specific chapter that exists, which reads: “Extremely from the provisions of Articles 13 to 17 of this Act to the ratification of credit agreements, the provisions of this Chapter apply. ” This concludes that the proponent in this place wanted to clarify the existence of international contracts in general and international contracts in this particular sense, therefore for credit and other financial obligations, and that in Article 19.b) wanted to explain the international agreements to which this amendment to the Law we are talking about, therefore, applies. So I think in a certain way, of course, with the existence of any goodwill, which is necessary in each discussion, I have made an explanation for the remark Mr. Genjac made on this occasion. 20 When it comes to remarks made by a respected colleague, Kapetanović, I can say the following. Each country in its own international legal traffic status, in international trade traffic, in international relations with general and special opportunities, category, is trying to keep, as I would say, as much independence as possible, that kind of identity, which is not forced to accept anything at all unless it decides to do so itself anyway. Accordingly, I think especially given this programme part of the political party you represent, that the SDA should more insist on more freedoms and rights of BiH than other countries, on creating less obligations itself towards other countries, than it is, as I say, a matter of some objective circumstances. Accordingly, the proposal for BiH itself to commit that any international agreement has a complete supremacy over any of its internal acts is a sort of, as I would say, a threat to sovereignty. This should not be acceptable regardless of what kind of agreements we can conclude. I understand in the segment concerning human and civil rights, given that this has been settled as a constitutional issue, that this principle can be applied and it is still applicable today, but when we talk about, for example, this agreement on tourism, I see no reason why the agreement on tourism with, for example, the United States would have more legal power than any of our internal legal acts. I don't see much if it's some kind of credit borrowing, because when you find yourself in an unfavourable situation, then you can protect your country's interests by your internal acts if you didn't predict that kind of compromise. And the Contracting Party that concludes the contract with you must be aware of that, because the starting point is that the two countries know the internal arrangements of one or the other and accept that arrangement as it is on the day of the signing of an agreement. So, chain BiH, reduce its sovereignty etc. It works, as I would say, that at some point it seems to be meaningful for some political question, I think strategically, therefore, would be wrong. When it comes to the implementation of the Vienna Convention, here I am finally saying, it is foreseen by this Law, at the end of the day BiH is a post-writer as a co-excessor of the Vienna Convention, and this standard that exists here, says a succession of international contracts of Article 23, says - international contracts of the predecessor state of BiH apply rules of international law and provisions of the Vienna Convention on the Sucession of States in relation to the 1978 agreements. So the smuggling of interpretation would mean that this is about a conflict between the former states, or between the successor states of the former Yugoslavia. However, this should be interpreted in a legal sense and it is then concluded that this is a conflict compared to all previously signed contracts. Which means that BiH already has this mechanism that ensures the effective application of the Vienna Convention, and as a signator of the Vienna Convention, it cannot be found at any point in time in the situation that, as I would say, it is estimating whether these types of obligations and thus losing credibility with international partners, regardless of whether these standards are contracts or contracts that are related to credit and financial debts. With all due respect, therefore, I felt the need to say this, given that probably for all people who are not part of this parliamentary procedure or otherwise not informed of the content of this Law or of the relevant things concerning this Law, I or any of the other delegates who will possibly support the urgency of the procedure act as someone who does something over the knee. Therefore, by respecting the explanation of the Chair of the Council of Ministers concerning procedural reasons and I hope this, and other explanations that have been made by colleagues concerning this type of argument, I hope that this urgent proposal will receive support in line with the requests of the Council of Ministers. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2598	Thank you, fellow Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2599	The replica was reported, given that the replica has the advantage of an esteemed colleague, delegate Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go, Mrs. Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2600	The chairman, with great respect for everything you said and without the intention of getting in the sovereignty of BiH and the rule of law in BiH, I just want to point out that a fundamentally legally binding multilateral international treaty, namely the Vienna Convention on Contract Law of '69. which, as you said, has been signed and ratified by the rule of law, i.e. by the SFRY, which, by notifying the conflict, and by the Republic of BiH has taken over the international and legal obligation of BiH as one of the 185 members of the Vienna Convention, to apply this Convention to contracts between states, and that, in respect of respect of respect of the international treaty, it is mandatory to adhere to Articles 26 and seven and to Article 46. The Vienna Conventions, especially in the sense that the invoice... every contract in force binds members and they need to be well-intentioned. And to me, he's an interesting member of the 27th. Internal law and respect for the contract. One member cannot appeal to the provisions of his internal right to justify the non-execution of the contract, this rule does not go to the heart of Article 46. It is beyond any doubt that the Vienna Convention, in relation to the Law proposed, is a more legally comprehensive document with more precise written regulations regarding the integration of international contracts into the legal order of states, including BiH. There are a whole series of legal issues that do not even contain the Law and contain the Vienna Convention. All terms used in international contract law are contained in the Vienna Convention, interpretation of international contracts, termination, suspension of application, futility, facts of international contracts, government concessions regarding international contracts. It shall therefore enter into force on the occasion of the entry into force of the international contract in Article 22. The law, as a more comprehensive source of law, needs to be mentioned in the Vienna Convention as a reason why international law is in the same way as international law in respect of international contracts irrespective of EU legislation. Each EU Member State is obliged to respect international agreements concluded with third countries in accordance with the Vienna Convention. The EU knows a whole series of rights sources that have legal power above the laws of EU Member States. So, I had absolutely no intention of getting into, therefore, BiH's legal system, but since we are full of the EU's mouth, since we have all declared ourselves strongly committed to harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, I don't think there have been any random initiatives of respected delegates from both homes that we should approach the making of a good, quality and thorough law, of course esteeming that, the proposing's intention and it is quite clear that it is matter that needs to be regulated by law, with the aim of creating the possibility of creating a faster process of ratification of international contracts related to BiH's financial obligations. What the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers has said, I accept, but I think the law needs to be improved in its entirety. Thank you. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2601	Thank you. The word came out, I'm sorry, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the replica, I'm sorry, the esteemed colleague Krstan Simić came forward. Here you go, Mr. Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2602	Thank you. There could be damage to the Rules of Procedure, both of them. I don't understand why it's necessary this much... The Vienna Conventions when it's irrelevant from the aspect of what we're discussing. We have one problem here – that we are inefficient, that we are slow to act, that we are slow to work and that we can all suffer damage. So I don't see here that this has any contact with the elaborates that we've already had, is it necessary for us to lightningly regulate one segment of the execution of international contracts, or to conclude ratification when it comes to things of nature that are urgent, things that nature needs to be dealt with quickly because often if we don't react to us... at our disposal... Therefore, I am extremely opposed to emergency procedures because indeed when you have an emergency procedure, you are denied the right to intervention, amendments, changes, and there is one potential danger that some things under... urgency are, in the sense of the alleged, forced. [[You don't understand.]] But in a particular case, I don't think there's really any obstacle here to this lightning work because this is exactly the interest of institutions that are financially trying... a system of necessary loans, aids and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2603	I thank my colleague Simić. A dear colleague, Mr. Martin Raguž, came forward for his word. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2604	Thank you, Mr. President. I also want to say a brief personal opinion, I think that is the Croatian Club's position. So, this law is good, this law is a big and huge improvement in relation to the existing legislation and this law corresponds to the most important priorities and objectives for which it is proposed by the Council of Ministers. The first is, therefore, that the ineffectiveness and slowness in procedures are eliminated, that deadlines be cut and that the costs paid by citizens and taxpayers of this country are reduced by slowness, by not withdrawing certain funds in time, by paying for additional penals, etc. So that's what this law is all about. In the adoption of this law, in fact, the formation of this text, therefore, took part all the important institutions which, from the Presidency to the Council of Ministers, have now been consulted here in the Parliamentary Assembly, the practices of the EU countries and the Vienna Convention on Contract Law as well as the Vienna Convention on State Sucession has been consulted. And I think, therefore, that we, who often drill into the chest here and call the Council of Ministers that it's slow, that it's not enough on the European path, that it's not enough in the function of the interest of all the entities in this country, then we fall into contradiction when 23 of what we have on the table try to slow down. I think that they have matured absolutely all the conditions to support the speedy procedure and by adopting such a law establish a much more responsible and effective practice when it comes to the conclusion of international contracts. And in that sense, support for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2605	Thank you. Mr. Bradarić, do you want to speak for the urgency of the procedure or in the regular procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2606	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2607	So we have to finish this part first. I apologize to you. Okay, misunderstanding. So I owe Mr. Bradarić an apology. There are no other reported participants, I apologize for correcting the wrong quote, the second, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2608	So we're talking about the foundation and need of an emergency procedure. So all the arguments that are for and against the emergency procedure are welcome, all the other arguments that have nothing to do with it I don't think is necessary. So, please, in the existing law there is a Chapter V called – Ratification of international contracts. That chapter stays. Chapter VIa) of the amendments to the law is now being introduced. And in the first member of that chapter, it says that exclusively from provisions 13 to 17, therefore the ratification process, credit agreements are subject to this current chapter, a new chapter. The second member of this new chapter also says – these credit arrangements are subject to the ratification process of international contracts. Therefore, firstly, Article 13 to 17 is exempt in the first article, and the second article says Articles 13 to 17. And it's in there hit-and-run, it's clashed with each other. When you take the existing law on international contracts... when you take this, you see what this is about. So, it's, uh, there's probably been some kind of mistake making. As the first article excludes credit arrangements, credit agreements, are exempted from ratification of international contracts and the second article says – the ratification process of international contracts applies when borrowing international contracts, etc. And that's a disagreement. I, therefore, understand and justify and the need to make it as effective as possible, to get as much credit as possible and as fast as possible, understand that in an effort, but I don't understand that because of that goal, even the provisions that have been struck by each other are adopted. I mean, so I'm making an argument, I'm asking to think about it, and everyone will have an opinion, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2609	Thank you. I find there are no further applications for participation in the debate on this matter. 24 Since we have exhausted this kind of discussion, we are moving to a statement on the procedure. So, on whether or not we will consider the draft law by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Thank you. Out of the 13 delegates present, 10 delegates were for, against three delegates, no delegate was retained. From the Federation – 6 for, against 2, from Serbia – 4 for, against 1. Given that there is a general and entity majority, I find the request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts under an urgent procedure has been adopted. Given that the request has been passed, I am now opening a debate on the bill's proposal. Here you go. A distinguished colleague, delegate, Mehmed Bradarić, came forward for the word. Here you go, Mr. Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2610	I voted for an emergency procedure precisely because it's very simple changes and I'm kind of angry that, here I think in early December, although not in this form, perhaps in some other form, this law went into procedure and, here's what's waiting for almost five months. These amendments to the Law are good because, for ratification under this current Treaty Ratification Act, i.e. for the conclusion and signing of a contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and other delegations of other countries, no deadlines were planned, this could have lasted indefinitely. And that's the main problem. Now, of course, there were very big consequences, financial consequences for BiH because we paid compensation, we paid interest for the appropriations, not the funds withdrawn. Here, we have under point 8, we know what we have, therefore, in reviewing there the necessary financial resources to build a sanctioning office, the money we got from the Council of Europe Development Bank, I think it's about about 38 million, we got it in 2010, we haven't pulled that money yet, and that money is being paid interest. It's not small interest. Or maybe, here, maybe I made a little mistake in that part, I don't know the exact term, but basically for those purposes we pay the interest. They're not small funds, we need to be aware of that. So someone had to propose laws like this before, someone who's the most important, someone who's the most responsible, someone who gets paid for something like that. It didn't have to wait for a group of politicians to do it, and we weren't devoid of comment. This is how I remember the comments of the Legislative Office, which I am not quite sure can enter into the scale, or the content of the law, but should say whether it was done in a unique way, or whether the legal regulations were made according to the Unique Rules, as in the sense that these laws worked, that someone was working, as if children were working. I believe that story, because we know that BiH institutions are not mostly credited with it, but it went according to the party, party or family line, etc. But the same comment was, in fact, the biggest concern was because of some other law from this set, which is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Service Act, where the mandates of ministers are bound by the mandates of ministerial assistants, secretaries, directors of offices, institutions, etc., and of course there are some obstructions. It's clear as day, etc. So, this old law, this current law had no deadlines. This one has, you know, everything. The delegation that signed the international contract goes to the foreign ministry within five days. The foreign ministry within seven days of the presidency. The presidency has the same number of days to refer it to a parliamentary procedure where consent is given, 25 previous consent, and for that they have 15 days. And the Presidency, in the end, has ratified the document within seven days. So it's all within about 40 days and it's all below the 90 days it's scheduled for these procedures. And if it goes wrong, everyone has to schedule these emergency meetings, etc. So we were not deprived of any negative comments. Yet this is the Law that someone else should have proposed, not what I say, politicians. And on the other hand, here we see that even the legislator, in fact the Venice Commission seems to me, I have nothing against this law, someone who is, therefore, a legislative factor in the Council of Europe. So, I will support these, these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2611	Thank you. There are no other reported delegates for participation in the discussion, so I am concluding this discussion. We're moving on to a plea. Of the 13 delegates present, there were 10 delegates, two delegates against them, 1 delegate was abstained. From the Federation – 6 for, 2 against, from Serbia 4 for, 1 abstention. Since there is a general majority as well as an entity majority, I find the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts has been adopted. We're going to work at point five, Ad. 5. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters The House of Representatives adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters with 6 amendments at its 36th session, held on 7 and 22.11.2012. At the 26th session, held on 17 January 2013, home of the people of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters with 3 amendments. At the 26th session of the House of People, held on 17 January 2013, in the Joint Commission of both homes, we appointed the following delegates: Mehmed Bradarić, Staš Košarac and Borjana Krišto. The Joint Commission of both homes did not reach agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters at the meeting held on 27.02.2013 and drew up a report on which we are due today. At its 43rd session, held on 28.02.2013, the House of Representatives rejected the Joint Commission's report at both homes to reach agreement on the identical text of that law. 26 I am opening a debate on this report. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no registered debates. I'm closing the debate. We now move to a statement on the Joint Commission's report of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to reach agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. I think it's necessary here, for all the delegates who may not have made an insight into the Rules of Procedure, to make a note. In accordance with Article 117(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the House of People, which reads – If both homes do not adopt a negative report of the Joint Commission, the draft law shall be submitted to the Joint Commission for the purpose of drawing up a new report in accordance with home guidelines. This means that all those who want this procedure to be re-voted by the commission against the reports and those who are in favour of the commission not further dealing with this issue, they practically support the report or may be abstentioned. I hope I've made enough clarifications since we haven't had a situation like this in this meeting yet. Now we're crossing, sorry, misquote correction, replication, and the esteemed colleague Martin Raguž has appeared. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2613	Your Honor, Mr. President. The explanation you gave to read this to us wasn't a setup. This you could call on the Rules of Procedure to inform the House and the public but not by the fact that delegates or envoys had no insight into... I mean as an argument...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2614	Okay, you're ready to take part in the session, I appreciate it. Okay. Now we're moving on to a plea. Here you go. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present – 7 delegates were against it, 5 were against it, and 1 delegate was retained. From the Federation – 7 delegates were in favour, against 1 delegate, abstention was not a single delegate, from Serbia – for no one, they were against four delegates, and one delegate was abstentioned. There is a general majority but there is no entity majority, and right now in the College we have no conditions to bring this issue into line, so this topic remains for the next session of the House of Peoples. Accordingly, we move to work at point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the second reading to discuss amendments and votes on the bill. You have received a report from the Commission on finance and the budget of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission adopted the draft law with three amendments. 27 In accordance with Article 112(2). On 12.04.2013, the Rules of Procedure of the People's House of Delegates, Halid Genjac, submitted two new amendments to the House of Nations. At its 41st session, held on 31 January 2013, the House of Representatives adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions in a second reading with three amendments. I would now give the chairman's commission to Mr. Čović if he were there. Does he want the vice president of this committee to take his word? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2618	I apologize to the chairman for perhaps a little later on. Since I have renewed the two amendments that were proposed on the committee and have not been accepted, I have decided to renew them. I'm not going to explain anything special to them. I'd just like to point out the importance of the first amendment. Namely, the proposed amendments to the Law on the financing of institutions are based on the last adopted budget adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I suggested that it be not the last adopted budget but the budget of the previous year. Why? The formulation of the last adopted budget eliminates the need for BiH's budget to be adopted for 10 years. It's a very dangerous position and it can have inconceivable consequences. So I think that, taking into account all the circumstances that exist and monitoring the adoption of the budget,... difficulties etc. I don't think we should leave the possibility of temporary funding for 10 years. This solution allows temporary funding to last for years. I think that far more meaningful, more rationally, it would be more responsible that temporary funding can only be based on the adopted budget in the previous year, because despite all the difficulties and delays of a year, it is a period for which every compromise on the budget must be found. Thank you. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2619	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. There are no other applications for participation in the discussion. I understand we've closed the debate. Since Mr. Genjac has renewed his amendments, we are now first moving to a statement on the amandman and delegate Halid Genjac. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Excuse me, stop the voting process. I find this vote not valid, and I ask my dear colleague, Borjana Krišto, to apply now for one of the options. You'll have to do it again because obviously it wasn't recorded earlier. Please report to Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2621	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2622	All right, let's say it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Borjana Krišto. Here you go, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2623	Thank you very much. Here, since we have, in some way, concluded or concluded the debate under this proposal, amendments to the law, and since our colleague Genjac has made amendments and in some ways explained them, I would like to, before we all make a statement about its amendments, to hear the position of the motionor on this matter, or on its amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2624	It's an appeal to the promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2625	It's kind of, so it's not, it's in the debate, but I'd like to hear the position of the bill's promoter on these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2626	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. 29 I, therefore, can give you my word if you wish, You know that your status is independent of Parliament, if you wish you can take the word. It will, of course, define the will of Mrs. Krišto, so you decide on it. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. I give my word to Mr. Rank Šakota, the Assistant Minister of Finance of BiH and the Treasury, is that right.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2628	I thank the chairman. Honorable delegates, Your Honor, Mrs. Krišto. We had a debate on the Finance Commission and the budget in two readings, we explained the essence of the amendments but also the essence of the amendments, i.e. the possible impact of the amendments submitted by the esteemed delegate Genjac. The amendment that Mr Genjac has just explained right now really speaks about the formulation of the last adopted budget. In addition to the documents that stand, which stood in the law and, among other things, the contributions, i.e. letters of the IMF and the European Commission Delegation, i.e. the authorised representatives of the European Commission delegation and of the IMF and their legal experts, who, after the agreement process was implemented, have established, together with us, that this formulation would truly satisfy one case that happened to us in practice, which is the case for blocking institutions, whether or not the budget was adopted. And this is at the same time allowing the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision, which in this case very precisely defined that the legislator can set deadlines for the adoption of the budget, however it cannot bring these deadlines to a halt the financing of BiH institutions in full, i.e. to prevent the functioning of BiH institutions as a whole. We've had in practice a case that happened and this is the solution that we don't have in the future, if we... and we adopt this law, never the case of a blockade. Of course, this will at the same time affect all those who make a decision to adopt the budget to reach a high degree of agreement in the early phase of the global framework's adoption of the three-year budget before this is indeed the last option, which is March 31st. So, the bottom line is that this provision allows for the functioning, though in a reduced scope, and the financing of BiH institutions in any case whether the budget is adopted or not within the legal framework. Of course, this is also the way out of a situation that is not regulated by other acts, i.e. it is not regulated by the Constitution itself, because the Constitution does not say what happens if the budget is not adopted for the current fiscal year in the course of the fiscal year itself, because it is an unarranged matter of the Constitution itself, including other laws, which, among other things, would, some other law that would prescribe how it is done in this case, whether Parliament can function at all, whether the people's homes, if they didn't have the political capacity to adopt the budget, have the legitimacy to represent, to work in this election period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2629	So whoever supports it is for a functioning BiH. Okay. 30 If you please, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2630	I thank the chairman. So the explanation we've heard, which I fully respect, is the following. We've had problems with blocks, the solution is, here's the situation you never have to adopt the budget, there's no blockades, everyone's getting salaries, all the institutions are getting salaries, and even the Parliamentary Assembly, even though you haven't adopted the budget, and that's how it can be for years. This is about the proposed solution. I think it is very problematic that if IMF representatives gave such an opinion and other international institutions that they recommended that it was the best formulation, it was very problematic. The current blockades and present problems with regard to solving these problems that arise when budgets are not adopted are far happier and better and more effective can be solved. This way the message is next, so you'll all have salaries in institutions based on the last budget, you don't have to adopt the budget. Another reason we shouldn't be in favor of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2631	I thank Mr. Genjac. I'd like to ask you now, so let's find out for sure that this discussion is over. Thank you. I'm closing the discussion. We're moving on to a plea. First we vote, so on Mr Genjac's amendment, which is Amendment number I. Of the 13 delegates present – for the two delegates, against the 7, abstentioned 4. From the Federation – 2 for, against 2, abstention 4, from the RS – no one for, 5 against, was abstentioned. I find that there is no general majority, so it is therefore concluded that the amendment and delegate Halid Genjac has not been adopted. Now we move on to the Declaration of Amendment II of the delegate Halid Genjac. Of the 13 delegates present, 2 delegates were in favour, against 6, abstention 5. From the Federation – 2 for, 1 against, with 5 abstentions, from Serbia – no one for, 5 against, no one abstained. There is no general majority so that I realize that Amendment II of the delegate Halid Genjac has not been adopted. Now we're voting on the bill. Thank you. Out of the 13 delegates present, there were 10 delegates against 2, abstention 1. From the Federation – 6 for, against 2, no one abstention, from Serbia – 4 for, against no one and abstention 1. Since there is both a general and an entity majority, I find the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Funding of Institutions has been adopted. Now we move to point seven, point 31 Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the second reading to discuss amendments and votes on the bill. You have received a Report from the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications to the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission has adopted the proposal for a law and proposes to adopt it to the House. At its 43rd session, held on 28.02.2013, the House of Representatives adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties in BiH in its second reading. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Mr Beqirovic, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2633	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2634	No, I don't. Thank you. Now I give the word to the biller, if he wishes. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] He doesn't want to. Thank you. We're moving on to a debate. There are no applications for participation in the debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement on the bill. Here you go. Wrong. Please let the vote happen again. Thank you. Mrs. Kapetanović, have you made a mistake? Will you repeat the vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2636	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2637	You don't have to. Thank you. I find that out of the 11 delegates present – for any 10 delegates, there was no one against, there was one delegate with abstention. From the Federation – 6 for, against no one, abstention 1 delegate, and from Serbia – 4 delegates were in favour. Since there is a general and entity majority I find the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties in BiH was adopted in the same text as in the House of Representatives. 32 Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Fund for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Second Reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the second reading to discuss amendments and votes on the bill. You have received a report from the Constitutional Commission at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission adopted the draft law with 3 amendments that became part of it. In accordance with Article 112(2), The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, delegate Krstan Simić, submitted a new amendment to the House of Nations on 27.03.2013. At its 44th session, held on 14 March 2013, the House of Representatives adopted the Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Institute for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and other BiH measures in a second reading with 4 amendments. I give the word to Krstan Simić, whom the Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session, if he wishes, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2639	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2640	Thank you. Now we're moving on to the debate. I'm opening a debate. You're welcome to sign up. There are no reports. Proposer doesn't want to either, does he? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you. We are now moving first on the amendment of delegate Krstan Simić. So, if we want the same text, we vote for this amendment with a due apology to those who already know. Thank you. Of the 11 delegates present, there were 6 delegates against four delegates, 1 delegate was retained. From the Federation – 2 delegates were in favour, against four delegates, held 1 delegate, from Serbia – 4 delegates were in favour. I find that there is a general majority, but there is no entity majority, and accordingly, given that we do not have the conditions for consultations in the College, we leave this issue for the next session. We are now going to work on point nine of today's agenda, 33 Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2643	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2644	There's no need. Thank you. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law, if he wishes. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You don't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports of participation in the discussion. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement on the bill. Of the 11 delegates present, 11 delegates were in favour, from the Federation – 7, from Serbia – 4. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds has been adopted in BiH institutions. We're moving on to Dot 10, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2647	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2648	Thank you. I'll give the word to the promoter if he wants to. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I realize there are no reports, so I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Of the 11 delegates present, there were 11 delegates. From Federation – 7, from Serbia – 4. There's a general and entity majority. I agree with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in BiH institutions has been adopted. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency (first reading) – Proposers: delegates Borjana Krišto, Staša Košarac and Sulejman Tihić
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2651	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2652	He doesn't want to. Thank you. I give the word to the legislators if they want to. Mr. Košarac? 35
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2653	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2654	No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Out of the 11 delegates present, 10 delegates were in favour, 1 delegate was abstained. From the Federation – 6 for, abstention 1, from Serbia – 4 for. Since there is both a general and an entity majority, I find the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Act adopted in the first reading. Moving to point 12, Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the first reading of the bill, so the debate is first on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You have been given the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission at the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. At its 44th session, held on 14 March 2013, the House of Representatives adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on administrative procedure in the second reading. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission to Mr Krstan Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2656	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2657	He doesn't want to. Thank you. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] He doesn't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? The word comes from a distinguished colleague, Mrs Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2659	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Remarkably appreciating the fact that, I think I dare say that I have recognised the aim and intention of the promoter, that this law allows for more effective and faster settlement of cases in the administrative process in terms of improving existing procedures and overcoming uncertainty in the implementation process and enabling consistent law enforcement, I welcome the adoption of this law, which I am going to declare today, of course positively. I believe that the amendments offered in the segment which treats the principle of transparency and the amendments offered in Article 6 in terms of harmonising existing provisions with the needs of the introduction of an electronic means of communicating the authorities of the administration with the parties and, for me in particular, the harmonisation of the basic procedural law with the regulations in the field of protection of personal and secret data are facts that we should welcome here. The amendments in the legal protection segment are somewhat understandable if we are taking into account the proposal's claim, in which I truly do believe unreservedly, that it is an instrument that is very rarely used, and the proponent has also called for the practices of the countries of the region and the EU, although it is a public... area that is not regulated by any of the committee's aki chapters, because each member state has, therefore, its sovereign right, which you have just spoken of, that the public administration and internal organisation adapts to its own best practices and solutions. My humble suggestion, with the support of the motionor and congratulations, would be good if in parliamentary procedure, in any case when procedural laws appear, that a public debate would be held after the first reading with the aim of finding the best text of the laws in question in the way it was done when it came to a litigation law which was also a procedural law. My congratulations to the promoter and I call on my colleagues to make a positive statement about the proposed text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2660	Thank you, Mrs. Kapetanović. There are no other applications for participation in the discussion, so I am concluding this debate. Now we're moving on to a plea. Of the 12 delegates present, 12 delegates were in favour. From the Federation – 8, from Serbia – 4. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Procedure was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point 13, Ad. 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the first reading of the bill. The first is the debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You have been given the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission at the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission has accepted the principles of Pre-Ogion 37. At its 43rd session, held on 28.02.2013, the House of Representatives adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prosecution before the Court of First Reading. I give my word to Mr Simic, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2662	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2663	He doesn't want to. Thank you. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law, if he wishes. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] He doesn't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. A distinguished colleague, Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2665	Mr. Chairman. I will first use this opportunity to thank the Constitutional House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which organised the public debate, so what I was just talking about, after the first reading, and also the proposing who had really very, very seriously approached the draft of this Law by consulting professors who were well aware of the litigation process, so also the judges of the relevant courts, but perhaps missing, as far as it may not be their fault, so far as it is not enough for the OSCE Mission that I have learned about during the presence of the public debate, that the judges of the Court of Justice of BiH, before whose court the laws in question, have not been consulted enough and that their opinions have not been respected. But of course it's possible to fix it eventually in the amendment phase when we get to it. I, therefore, welcome this Law and consider it to be a significant advance in the approximation of both this Law and the one I have just discussed, to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, in particular Article 6. European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights. The BiH constitution stipulates that BiH is a democratic state that adheres to the rule of law that requires state and entity governments to ensure respect for internationally recognised human rights. Respect for the standard of fair trial resulting from Article 6(1) Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights, which are also applicable in the litigation process, as well as other rights that are exercised through a litigation procedure, such as the right to employment, health care, education, are certainly of great importance for the Bosnian Herzegovina society. Legal science and the doctrine of the European Court of Human Rights interpret Article 6(1). The European Charter for the Protection of Human Rights includes, therefore, a wide range of elements that form the right to a fair trial, 38 approaches to court, legal assistance and advice, creating equal opportunities for defence, for public hearing, fair hearing, impartiality, independence and a reasonable period of time of procedure. Of course, the focus is on creating clarity in the provisions of the Law on the Prosecution Procedure and their application in practice, which I assume was the intensity of the Proposer. This process is very important for meeting BiH's human rights obligations, as well as for ongoing structural dialogue projects in the EU-led judiciary. Therefore, in terms of efficiency and economic behaviour and what is most important is the legality of the decision as the objectives of the reform of one law, the introduction of the principle of trial within a reasonable period is a respected requirement, where it is a respected request of the Council of Europe that the litigation procedure must take place on the basis of the principle of strengthening the disposition and changes in the... principle and strengthening the role of parties when it comes to discriminatory maximums. So, there's been a promotion, there's all the promotions, and I'm suggesting that I congratulate you on that. Of course, the most interested that the provisions of this law are clearly laid down and applicable are judges of the BiH Court, I say, they are not consulted. There was, at a public hearing, a suggestion to be in Article 11. The law in paragraph 6 that the filing of the action is filed through the judge in the first-degree procedure, we believe it is a nomotechnical error in writing, i.e. it is likely that the motion to withdraw the action is filed through a first-degree court. I believe it's just a grammatical mistake. It is also pointed out that Article 4 of the amendment and the addition of the Law relating to the original text, the basic text and its Article 6, so now that Article 4 provides for the addition of a new Article 6a) which has been very much affected by the public debate, which says that if the court is unable to act because of the exclusion or exemption of the judge, the court will appreciate the place of residence, inform the defendant and inform the Supreme Court of the Federation of BiH, Republika Srpska or the Court of Appeal of Brcko, which will determine that another court is acting in this case. The judges of the BiH Court consider this to be not the most adequate solution in terms of economicity, above all, in terms of the economicity of the case, because it foresees that the BiH Court of Justice will address the entity, depending on which entity the party is in charge, and that then the Supreme Court of entities, the Supreme Court of entities, will determine which court will act in the case. They expressed their opinion that this could be regulated in a simpler manner, making sure that the BiH Court does not have any court above itself at this time, so both the first-degree and second-degree courts end all of this jurisdiction. And they felt that it would be a better solution if the BiH Court of Justice was not in a position to act in any case because of the exclusion and exclusion of judges, and such cases were, therefore, taking place in BiH, that the general session of the BiH Court of Justice will decide on who will act in the case to determine the second court of the same jurisdiction in the entity or Brcko District. The judges also said someone would ask if it was in the general session's jurisdiction. The Law on the Court of Justice of BiH sets out the responsibilities of the general session, and it is said that there is one general provision that the general session decides on other issues concerning the work of the court, which could be undermined under this provision. In addition, they stressed that the Law on Prosecution before the Court of BiH would give that jurisdiction to the general session as a special law so that the issue could be overcome. This is one proposed variant that offers an alternative in which it would be said that if the Court of Justice for the exclusion or exemption of judges cannot act in any case, that whoever decides in the case, who will actually treat the case by the entity or the Brcko District Court, decide on it by the Board of Appeal of the Court of Justice of BiH. But in any case, regardless of the objections of the BiH Court of Justice, I would like to welcome the adoption of this law. It represents indeed one thorough approach to the promoter. I congratulate the Ministry of Justice on one serious approach and on the fact that they organised it together with the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives and a public debate with legal experts and I propose that today's text of the law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2666	I thank Mrs. Kapetanović. There are no other applications for participation in the discussion, so I'm finalizing the discussion. We move on to a statement on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Thank you. Was it a mistake, or were you deliberately abstaining? Will you repeat the vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2667	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2668	You got it. I don't think you should remain immune to these arguments either, which we've heard.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2669	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2670	So they won't convince you again. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 13 delegates were in favour. From the Federation – 8, from Serbia – 5. There's a general and entity majority. I agree with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure before the Court of BiH was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point 14, Ad. 14 Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Council of Ministers You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission at the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission adopted the Report together with the conclusions contained in it and proposed to the House the adoption of the Report together with the conclusions contained in it, adopted by the Constitutional Legal Commission. You have conclusions in your materials. I don't know if I need to read them. There isn't. Thank you. At its 46th session, held on 28.03.2013, the House of Representatives adopted the Report together with the conclusions contained in the Report, a total of 8 conclusions. 40 I give the President of the Commission to Mr Simic, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2672	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2673	He doesn't want to. Thank you. I give the word to the Reporter, if he wishes. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You don't want to either. Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate on this point. Dear colleague Nermina Kapetanović came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2675	Mr. Chairman. Aware of the fact that for 8 years in the course of which the Single Rules apply, there is a fact that, despite the fact that there are indeed certain laws which do not apply the Single Rules for 8 years. I think that if the aim of the project is that all BiH laws are harmonised and purified and that a maximum improvement in the system of legislative activity is made, I think we can say that we have not been able to fully control the nomotechnics since there is a lack of analysis of the effects of the adopted laws, i.e. the absence of an analysis of the application of the Single Rules. In considering the law, it would be a good idea to have the Constitutional Commission's opinion mandatory, so when we consider the law, we must definitely get the opinion of the Constitutional Commission and the Directorate for European Integration in terms of compliance with the BiH constitutional legal system, i.e. the EU. It would be good and necessary to provide mandatory verification of whether any proposed law has been made in accordance with the Unique Rules. Until the moment it is introduced in the legislative procedure of sanctions for non-compliance with the Single Rules, there will be an unsettled situation and the fact that sometimes the Single Rules are not respected. Therefore, it should be possible to give a negative report, of course with the help of the legislative sector, in cases where the Single Rules are not respected. One modest proposal and suggestions – given that the new Rules of Procedure is under way, I propose that this observation be incorporated into the text of the new Rules of Procedure for the necessity of applying the Single Rules. I support this one-of-a-kind rule and this report and I'm asking you to follow it. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2676	I thank Mrs. Kapetanović. Dear colleague, Mr Dragutin Rodić, came forward for the word. Mr. Bećirović, who asked for leave, can be given that we now have quorum at the Bosniak Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2677	Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Just for a little while. Given the discussion of Mrs. Kapetanović, but not as a replica, I just want to say something else. We have before us a Report on the application of the Unique Rules, which in a comprehensive way wrote everything and eventually said everything that was right and wrong in the conclusions. I therefore see that such a report with complete conclusions adopted by the House of Representatives, talks about the norm, talks about all this, and it is clear to all of us that we are doing in this Parliamentary Assembly and, perhaps, what the colleague and this Commission said in the making of the Rules of Procedure, it is very important, but the fact is that very little progress in the case of last year's report and this report is now. So, as far as I'm concerned, I support this with all these conclusions because people have fully recognized everything that we're missing in this nomotechnic, and it's up to us to support it and bet that all of this right here is what it says and all of these institutions that are dealing with this, we have to do this, otherwise we're going to have the same report next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2678	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. There are no other applications for participation in the discussion, so I'm closing the discussion. We move to a statement on the report with the conclusions of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present, there were 12 delegates. From Federation – 7, from Serbia – 5. There's a general and entity majority. I agree, the report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions together with the conclusions of the Constitutional Commission of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Work report and Financial Report of Bosnia and Herzegovina Post Office 2012 You have received the opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission has accepted the report and is proposing to the House its adoption. The House of Representatives is held at the 46th session, held on 28.03.2013. 42 years, adopted the report on the work and financial report of the BiH Post Traffic Agency for 2012. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission to Mr Beqirovic, if he wishes. Who's his deputy? Mrs. Krišto?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2680	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2681	You don't want to. Thank you. I also give word to the Reporter if he's present? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There isn't. Reason. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I remember Mr. Bradarić's discussion last time, but what happened to the bureaucratics is now being mentioned, right? Okay. Thank you. I'm closing the discussion. We move to a statement on the 2012 report on the work and financial report of the BiH Post Traffic Agency. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present, 12 delegates were in favour. From Federation – 7, from Serbia – 5. There's a general and entity majority. I agree, the report on the work and financial report of the BiH Post Office for 2012 was adopted. Moving to point 16, Ad. 16. Report on the work of permanent committees at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2012: 16.1. Report on the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2012, 16.2. Report on the work of the Finance Commission and the budget of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2012, 16.3. Report on the Commission's work on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2012
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2684	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2685	No, I don't. Mr. Simić?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2686	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2687	No, I don't. Mr. Bećirović is not present, Mrs. Krišto?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2688	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2689	No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, thank you. We're moving on to a plea, we're pleading as a whole. Mr. Bradarić, mistake or intent?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2690	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2691	Will you repeat the vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2692	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2693	Okay, for consistency, okay. I find that out of the 12 present – 11 present were for, and 1 was retained. From the Federation – 6 for, 1 abstention. From Serbia – 5 for. Given that there is a general and entity majority, I find reports on the work of the Constitutional Commission, the Finance and Budget Commission, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2012 have been adopted. 44 We move to point 17, Ad. 17. Report on the work of joint permanent committees of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly 2012: 17.1. Report on the work of the Joint Defence and Security Commission for BiH for 20012 years, 17.2. A report on the work of the Joint Committee on Oversight of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency for 20012, 17.3. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on European Integration for 20012, 17.4. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development for 20012, 17.5. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics for 20012, 17.6. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs for 20012 You have received reports on the work of the joint permanent committees of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly's 2012 Parliament. The Commission adopted reports and proposed their adoption to the House. The House of Representatives at the 46th session, held on 28.03.2013, adopted reports on the work of the joint permanent commissions of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2012. I give the word to the chairman of the board or their deputies if that's what they want. I don't see a report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no applications for participation in the discussion, I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement, we vote as a whole. Thank you. Mr. Genjac, turn off your cell phone, I'm asking you anyway. Okay. I am finding out from the 13 delegates present – 12 delegates were in favour, but 1 was abstentioned. From Federation – 7 for, 1 is maintained. From Serbia – 5 for. There is a general and entity majority, so I find reports on the work of the joint permanent commissions of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's 2012 Houses have been adopted. We're going to work on item 18 of this agenda, Ad. 18. Report on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of BiH police structure for 2012 and Working Plan of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of BiH police structure for 2013
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2696	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2697	Thank you. I give my word to the Reporter if he is present and if he has any needs. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need, is there? No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? No participants in the discussion? There isn't. We now move to a statement, conclude the debate and move to a statement on the report on the work and work plan of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of BiH's police structure. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 13 delegates were in favour. From the Federation – 8, from Serbia – 5. There is a general and entity majority, so the report on the work of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of BiH's police structure for 2012 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of BiH's police structure for 2013. We're going to act on item 19, Ad. 19. Report on work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2012
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2700	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2701	Thank you. I'll give the word to the Reporter if he's present. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] He doesn't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no registered debates, I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Of the 13 delegates present, 13 delegates were in favour. From the Federation – 8, from Serbia – 5. There is a general, there is an entity majority, so I find, a report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2012 was adopted. Moving to point 20, Ad. 20. BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner 2012 Work Report
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2704	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2705	Thank you. I give the word to the Reporter. _________(?) 47 [[no microphone turned on]] You don't have to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Nermina Kapetanović came to the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2707	I thank the chairman. Within the framework of a high-quality and extensively prepared report by the parliamentary military commissioner, all MPs, who, of course, wanted to know the state of human rights and the freedom of the military faces and the conditions of working and living in the armed forces barracks, could also find recommendations from the parliamentary military commissioner that point to the need to remove the perceived shortcomings during his regular controls, which I really congratulate. You are truly consistent with the work you do, and I think you do it with honor. I welcome your good co-operation, therefore, the co-operation of the parliamentary military commissioner with the Defence and Security Commission, and I find it extremely important that all representatives of the other institutions co-operate so well with the committees of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly both homes. Of course, the question remains, how many parliamentary military commissioners, not by their own decision, are involved in activities related to BiH's NATO integration? So, we have no indication of this, we think it would be quite natural and normal for you to participate, in removing the barriers that stand in BiH's path to, therefore, BiH's integration into NATO alliance. What is particularly important to me, as the first deputy chairman of the Joint Commission for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, is the fact that building standards of political responsibility in relation to non-compliance and non-compliance with recommendations made by the parliamentary military commissioner and measures in terms of respecting individual human rights highlighted in the Report, and of course in the reports of the BiH Ombudsman, and we have often had the opportunity to meet such recommendations, should represent the aim of the Parliamentary Assembly. Therefore, to build standards according to the recommendations of the Ombudsman and to the recommendations of the parliamentary military commissioner in, therefore, the segment of respect for the individual human rights of the persons concerned by this domain. This Report is indeed a real example of a correct and fair approach in the work of some of the institutions. I support him and congratulate the parliamentary military commissioner on all his activities so far taken.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2708	Thank you. There are no other applications for participation in the discussion, so I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. There are 13 delegates present – 13 delegates are also in favour. From the Federation – 8, from Serbia – 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I find the 2012 report on the work of BiH's parliamentary military commissioner has been adopted. 48 We move to point 21. Ad. 21. A report from the workshop on the subject: "The Defence and Security Sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina – A Year After", with a proposal for conclusions, the Joint Defence and Security Commission's material for BiH You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH and the Commission has adopted the report with the conclusions contained in it. At its 43rd session, held on 28.02.2013, the House of Representatives received the report with a proposal for conclusions from the Report. I give the word to the Reporter, if that's what he wants. Mrs. Krišto?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2710	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2711	You don't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. A distinguished delegate, Mr. Mladen Ivanić, appeared in the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2712	With all due respect to the people who participated in the workshop, I have no idea what the House of People will be talking about on the workshop report. There are a lot of workshops like this, and I don't even understand what the content of this is, what the point is, let's hear what our colleagues said to each other there and what it means to take to the knowledge of the report. Are these our conclusions or not? So, I'd ask a little College, here's if anything else, I don't insist on anything, that a little bit, not to explain, but to think in the future when he puts the inert points on the agenda to be a little more critical, nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2713	Thank you, Mr. Ivanic. There are no others reported, and I have to give the clarifications. So the content explanation would require a certain multidisciplinaryity as an educational and informative basis, so that since I am not to this extent multidisciplinary myself, here I think Mr. Čović, although he is a professor of the university, would not dare enter into details. Maybe something together, yeah. But good. I respect your discussion, but we must also respect the Commission's demands, because the Commission's own demands are the product of voting members. And they are our fellow MPs and delegates, and accordingly I hope that in some constructive lobby the debate will come up with a common position on whether these reports of this level should be referred to the House sessions or not. I hope I've given the necessary explanation. Now I thank you all for your participation in this agenda, so I'm closing the debate. 49 We move to a plea. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present, 9 delegates were in favour, but 3 delegates were maintained. From the Federation – 6 delegates were for and 1 was abstentioned. From Serbia – 3 delegates were in favour and 2 were abstentions. As there is a general and entity majority, I conclude a report from the workshop on the subject: "The Defence and Security Sector in BiH – a year later", with conclusions from the Report received. We're going to work on item 22, Ad. 22. Report on the functioning of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 material of the BiH Council of Ministers You have been given the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission at the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission adopted the Report together with the conclusions of the Report, and proposes its adoption to the House. At its 44th session, held on 14 March 2013, the House of Representatives adopted a report on the functioning of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system in BiH for 2011 with the conclusions contained in it. I give my word to Mr Simic, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2715	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2716	No, I don't. Thank you. I give the word to the Reporter, if he wishes. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There you are, don't you? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're moving on to a statement on the report with the conclusions of the report. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present, there were 12 delegates, against no one, abstentioned. From the Federation – 7, from Serbia – 5 for. There is a general and entity majority, so I am finding a report on the functioning of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system in BiH for 2011 with the conclusions contained in it. 50 We move to point 23, Ad. 23. The appointment of the director and deputy director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the ranking of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's home for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of directors and deputy directors of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2719	Thank you very much. Here, I would also suggest as well as the proposal, means that the position of the Committee formed by the House of Representatives and this House of People is as well as a proposal confirmed by the House of Representatives, which is that Mr. Petar Kovačević is appointed as the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency of the Croatian Peoples, Mr. Vlado Rogić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2720	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We move to a statement, we can vote together on candidates, we can go separately, how do you want? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Together. We move to a statement on both candidates and by voting on a candidate for the director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH, Mr. Petar Kovačević and a candidate for Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH, Mr. Vlada Rogić. Here you go. 51 Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present, there were 11 delegates, there was no one against, and there was one delegate. The Federation of BiH – 6 delegates held 1 delegate. But from Serbia – 5 delegates were in favour. There is a general and entity majority, so I understand that we have appointed Mr. Petar Kovačević as the director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH and Mr. Vlada Rogić as Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH. That concludes the work on this agenda point, so we move to point 24, Ad. 24. Appointment of a member of Bosnia and Herzegovina Public Broadcasting Service Management Board from the ranks of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2724	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2725	I'll give you my word, just sign in.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2726	On behalf of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications, I propose a candidate who has established the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2727	Sanja Latinović. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2728	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2729	Okay, thanks. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We move to a statement on the proposal made by Mr Bećirović. Thank you. Mr. Simić, do you want to do it again?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2730	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2731	Please let the vote happen again. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, there were 13 delegates. From the Federation – 8, from Serbia – 5. Given that there is both the general and the entity majority, I find that we have appointed Sanja Latinović as a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board of BiH in the order of others. Moving to point 25, Ad. 25. Appointment of a member of the People's House at the Interresor Working Group on Draft Law on Political Parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Material of the BiH Ministry of Justice At the 36th session, held on 23.01.2013, the BiH Council of Ministers adopted the Olduk on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group on the draft law on political parties in BiH, with a proposal to include one representative from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes. At its 42nd session, held on 14 December 2013, at the Interresorn Working Group for the Draft Law on Political Parties in BiH named Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović. I'm opening a debate and I'm answering my word. Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, dear auditoriums. So, at this point in the agenda, we have one question that we have already discussed at the Club of Delegates of the Serbian People and took the view that this item of the agenda should be postponed for the next session, because through all the discussions that existed in the Joint College and the College of the People's House and as far as I know, at the very least, in the Club of the delegates of the Serbian People, it has come to the conclusion that the parity established by one delegate and one MP in the Interresor Working Group is not a pinzip which is acceptable in the work of the Parliamentary 53 Assembly of BiH, having in mind its structure, as well as the political system of BiH, which it expresses through the definition of two entities, three peoples constitutive, two homes, etc., etc. And not to mention the multitude of political parties involved in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly and who would certainly want to be represented in a particular way in such an Interresor working group, regardless of whether they come from a line of political parties supported by the Council of Ministers or those who do not support it. For this reason, we would ask the Proposer to correct this proposal on the composition of the Interresor Working Group with respect to the political system representing the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, so that we can then approach the appointment of one of the members of the House of Peoples, as did the House of Representatives. At the same time, they would have no objection, at least I had reached such a conclusion, that since such a conclusion was made to the House of Nations, the Council of Ministers itself, or the competent ministries, would establish a proposal for this law and refer it to a regular parliamentary procedure, even without an Interresor Working Group. We understand the need to create a certain form of responsibility for parliamentarians, which can simplify further work in parliamentary procedure and similar things. But I assure you that it will not be so, for the simple reason that however you turn, there are parliamentary groups that simply won't accept it as healthy for granted. It's not an emergency procedure, it's a law on political parties, there'll always be some reason for it to go into regular procedure. This is what was some kind of appeal in the name of the College of the House of Peoples, and I sincerely hope in the name of most delegates in the House of Peoples. Thank you. Before we draw any conclusions, a distinguished colleague, Mr. Krstan Simić, appeared in the word. Here you go, Mr. Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2733	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am, in principle, against the creation of such interresor groups, where one is created, to say, a critical mass from the executive authority and as some kind of a creamworth is given delegates or MPs from..., I believe that it is a very serious law and that those legislators should take on the burden of responsibility, do a quality law and a quality proposal, and of course they must immediately come from this assumption that it is a very important law and from the aspect of the fight against corruption, the establishment of an effective authority, and that this law would have to pass a broad and public and professional debate, to definitely get one law that would regulate otherwise the action of political parties, their action in the institutions of power. And I think this would just be a prolonging and a delay and we'd get to one crazy time spent. Therefore, my proposal is for the Council of Ministers to consider these suggestions, revise its position and make a quality proposal within its competence, and then we will decide through the procedure on all those things that will be able to improve this law. Thank you. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2734	Thank you, Mr. Simić. If there are no other applications for participation in the discussion, I would formulate this conclusion after consulting with Mr. Čović. The conclusion is: – The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH calls on the Proposer to assess, within 15 days, the arguments presented at this session of the House of Peoples, whether he wants to continue working through the Interresor Working Group to determine the text of this Law. And if it is determined that it wants to submit a corrected proposal for membership in the Interresor Working Group in line with the observations raised concerning the political system and the way the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH works. And if he does not want to withdraw this proposal and continue working in the Council of Ministers until the day the Council of Ministers sets out a proposal for the text of the law and forward it for further proceedings to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. If there are no objections to the statement of conclusion, I invite you to...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2735	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2736	There's no sign-up here, but come on. The word came first from an esteemed colleague, Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2737	Thank you. However, by supporting this discussion of Mr Simić, some practice of interresor groups etc. - Why? We have obliged the Council of Ministers to prepare within three months the draft law on a political, very important law, and it will go through all our committees, through all our phases, through all our amendments again. I mean, I agree with this conclusion that you have formulated, but to add one sentence and to respect what Mr Simić said – that it is a suggestion of the House of Peoples to deliver this Council of Ministers to the parliamentary procedure, that it is our suggestion to deliver the Law, and we will resolve through the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2738	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2739	Mr. Ivanic, I understood the need to intervene. So, with this supplement, I agree. Now let's move on to a statement on these conclusions. 55 Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, there were 13 delegates. From the Federation – 8, from Serbia – 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that the proposed conclusions concerning this agenda point have been adopted, and we delay the work on this agenda point when conditions arise. We're going to work on the following points of the agenda. That's point 26, Ad. 26. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Security Agency On 17.12.2012, the Central Election Commission of BiH adopted a solution to give Muris Čičić a member of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Obtainment, in violation of the provisions of the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH's Institutions, a sanction of incompetence for running for any function of the elected official, holder of an executive function or adviser, for a period of 4 years after the offence was committed, i.e. since 17.12.2012. You have received a proposal for a decision to resolve the members of the Management Board of the Higher Education Development Agency and to ensure BiH quality. At its 46th session, held on 28.3.2013, the House of Representatives adopted a Decision on the discharge of members of the Management Board of the Higher Education Development Agency and the acquisition of BiH's quality with the conclusion. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. We're moving on to a plea. I find that out of the 12 present – 12 delegates were in favour. From Federation – 7, from Serbia – 5. There is a general and entity majority, so we have reached a decision on the resolution of members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security of BiH. I'm sorry, I don't have a check-in now, just a moment, I don't have anything recorded here either.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2741	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2742	About this agenda point, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2743	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2744	Here you go, Mrs. Krišto. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2745	Thank you very much. Since we have resolved today, here is a member of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency, he was resolved on a proposal from the Central Election Commission, and I expected that someone from the Bosniak Club, as it comes from the Bosniak people, might suggest that in some way fill this vacant position. And the House of Representatives has already adopted such a conclusion, so I would suggest that the temporary joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses to implement the selection procedure for 3 members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency, established by the House of Representatives at its 37th session, and the House of Peoples at its 26th session. It means to carry out the election process of a member of the Management Board, who will take over instead of this resolved member, Muris Čičić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2746	I thank Mrs. Krišto. A distinguished colleague, delegate Krestan Simić, came forward for the word. Here you go, Mr. Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2747	Of course I support Mrs. Krišto proposal. However, I would suggest that this is not the case at this session, for the simple reason that we have opened the candidates' envelopes together today, and we have found that no one in the Serb people's order has applied for the election of the other members. We'll end this procedure in 07th, so we'll have a conclusion one, to call a competition, a re-competition for completion, so we don't write two contests. I think co-worker Krišto will agree to wait for the next session and to choose a deputy for Mr. Muris and someone from the Serb people in one contest, since there are no candidates in the order of the Serb people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2748	Thank you, Mr. Simić. Correction of the false allegation, distinguished colleague Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2749	... led under the correction of the wrong allegation, but here I hope colleague Simić agrees. We're in this position today, so we've resolved the gentleman and we in this sense, I suggest we fill this position, because it means the procedure is done here. And as for what we had today, we didn't end it. We just opened up today and realized we don't have anyone reported. And so we have to finish this procedure and only after, so in some other procedure we will form a factual commission and complete the members of the Serb people's order. Because this procedure, when it comes to the vacant position in the order of the Serb people, has just been established today, we have to end it, we haven't finished it yet. It's only when we submit a report to both homes, then we can conclude and assign the House to fill in, and this is today, of course, if we all agree on the House. As far as I'm concerned my proposal would be, I 57 think the proposal and the entire club, to be, to say and efficient and effective, because the commission is already working, the commission is formed. If you want this commission to do both homes together, we can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2750	Thank you. I'd like to see this kind of situation handled with some short breaks. I think we'd spend less time on them, so I suggest we take a five-minute break, get the club bosses to agree on what they want, and then we'll move on to further work. Here you go. [[PAUZA]] Mr. Genjac, I'm asking you as club chief to secure the quorum at your club. You can't do anything yet, Mr. Simić, since we don't have a quorum in the Bosniak People's Club. What I would give you as instruments You probably wouldn't accept, so don't drag me by the tongue, to manage the club. I know Mr. Lagumdžija was in the building, but I don't think delegates have to wait in the hallway to run into their president, do they? ... As soon as they get back, I won't do it again. [[from the laugh of the chairman, nothing is understood]] Well, it's the red coalition, Martina. After the working conditions have been obtained, we continue with the session, and I order that the minutes be deleted to this quote be deleted. So, I expect Mrs. Krišto to say what's agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2752	Here, in short consultations, here are representatives of the Serbian, Bosniak and Croatian club, we agreed that this position, which is empty, should be entrusted to the Interim Joint Commission to call the procedure for the elections to fill this empty position, and that the vacant position in the order of the Serbian people, be at the end of the procedure that is already under way. Same way and by the same procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2753	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. So, I put the harmonised proposal for a conclusion to the vote. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present – 14 delegates were in favour. From the Federation – 9 from Serbia – 5. There's both a general and an entity majority, so I find that a harmonised conclusion has been adopted. We move to work on the 27th agenda, 58 Ad. 27. Proposal for a Decision on the establishment of the Ad hoc Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to implement the procedure for the appointment of members of the Council of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications – Material of the Council of Ministers of BiH The BiH Council of Ministers established and provided the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH with a proposal for a decision on the establishment of the Ad hoc Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to implement the process of appointing members of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications – the material of the Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement on this decision. Thank you. I agree that we have reached a decision on the establishment of the Ad hoc Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to implement the process of appointing members of the BiH Regulatory Agency Council, and to appoint Mrs Borjana Krišto as a member of the Commission of the People's House, and what we have done with – 13 of the 14 votes present, 1 abstention and that from the Federation – 8 for, 1 abstention, from Serbia – 5 for, and I realize that there are both the general and entity majority. Moving to point 28, Ad. 28. Consideration of Halid Genjac's initiative from the 26th session of the People's House, held on 17.1.2013, which reads: "Information on preparation for the census and households in BiH (acquaintment of the appearance of the census, funding of the census, data resolution and processing, implementation of the information campaign, cartography etc.This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2756	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2757	He doesn't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone answer for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 5 delegates, 5 delegates against them, and four delegates were detained. From the Federation – 5 for, against no one, abstentioned 4 delegates, from the RS – 5 delegates against. Since there is no general majority, I find the initiative of Halid Genjac delegates to include in the agenda of the House of People's Points session "Information on preparation for the census and households in BiH (accommodation of census looks, list financing, data resolution and processing, implementation of information campaigns, cartography etc."" which the Council of BiH is scheduled to prepare, has not been adopted. We're going to work on point 29, Ad. 29. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on granting consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on co-operation in the field of tourism – BiH Presidency material At the 27th session of the House of People, held on 26.02.2013, we discussed giving consent to ratifying the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, on co-operation in the field of tourism – the material of the BiH Presidency. During the vote, the Memorandum did not receive the necessary entity majority, so it sat down to agree with the College of the People's House as a commission. You've received a report from the College of the House of Peoples. Members of the House of People's College as a commission failed to reach agreement on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, on co-operation in the field of tourism. In accordance with Article 73(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the People's House vote on giving consent to the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, on co-operation in the field of tourism. The decisions are made by a majority of the votes of those who are present and who vote, provided that the votes against must not contain 2/3 or more of the votes of the delegates elected from each entity, says here to me, so I must read Mr. Raguž. Since there's no debate here, we're moving on to a plea. So that's the second round. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 9 delegates, but there were 5 delegates against them. From the Federation – 9 for, and from Serbia – 5 against. 60 There is a general majority, but there is no entity, so I realize that we did not agree to ratify the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, on co-operation in the field of tourism. The agenda of today's session is still being agreed on by the ratification of agreements and conventions, so I propose that we bring together a debate on the declaration and approval of the agreements and conventions referred to in points 30 to 35, including item 35 of the agenda. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for this conclusion. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're moving on to a statement of conclusion. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 11 delegates, no one against them, three delegates were detained. From the Federation – 6 for, against no one, abstentioned 3 delegates, from Serbia – 5 delegates for. There's a general and entity majority, so I find that the proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. Ad. 30. - 35. Giving consent to ratification of agreements and conventions
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2760	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-16-0.u2761	He doesn't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate now on agreements. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are now moving to a statement on giving and giving consent to ratification of the 30-35 agreements and conventions, including item 35 of the agenda. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates were for, against none, abstentioned no one. From Fedecija – 9 from Serbia – 5. There's a general and entity majority, so I realize that we've given consent to ratification of the agreement and the conventions in points 30 to 35, including item 35 of the agenda. I thank you. Further activities will be further notified. Bon appétit. Session completed at 1405 hours.
