ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14617	I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to take their seats so we can start working today's session. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 47th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Our regular guests, presidents and members of the BiH presidency, the chairmans and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly monitor the work of our House, representatives of the media, were invited to the session. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The absence was justified by representatives Senad Šepić and Azra Hadžiahmetović, and according to information from the session's service, 34 MPs are present. And I'm realizing that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As regards the amendments to the session agenda, I would like to point out the following, paragraphs 6 and 7 have been amended in accordance with Article 111(6). The Rules of Procedure, because the Constitutional Commission has for the second time asked for an extension of the deadline for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prosecution before the Court of Justice of BiH. The previous agenda has been removed from point 17. The appointment of two members from the House of Representatives in the Interresor working group for the construction of the Law on Parliamentary Investigations – material of the BiH Ministry of Security, issue: 01,02-34-1-428/13 of 01.04.2013. The following are added to the agenda: point 3. The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of Deposits in Banks of BiH by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-17/13 of 11.04.2013. Point 17. Special Report of the BiH Ombudsman Institution for Human Rights, with regard to the complaint of workers of the former Republic Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Customs Service of the Brcko District of August 2010, issue: 01,02-37-417/13 of 29.03.2013. 2 Point 19. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's letters (in accordance with the conclusion of the Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes of the 19th session, held on 16 April 2013.) number: 01,02-50-12-18-19,113 of 17.04.2013. Point 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the EC IPA Grant Agreement (A Water Quality Protection Project: A Sub-project for Water and Channelling of Zivnica) between BiH and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as administrator of the European Commission's Trust Fund for EU Pre-accession Assistance, issue: 01,02-05-2-492/13 of 12.04.2013. Point 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion in relation to income and property taxes, No: 01,02-05-2-493/13 of 12.04.2013 and Point 28. Granting consent to ratify the Statute of the International Monetary Fund for the Reform of the Executive Committee, No: 01,02-05-2-488/13 of 11/04.2013. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. A respected representative, Šemsudin Mehmedović, appeared for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14618	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. I actually want to discuss one thing as a preliminary question, and that's on behalf of the U.S. Attorneys' Club, and we want to know if the correct information is that you in the College have banned the presence of today's session and all future meetings of the Centres of Civil Initiatives, or their representatives? We want to know the reasons why such a decision has been made in the College and, if that is true, we believe that it is an abuse of the position of the College and that perhaps the only institution that in a different way informs about the work of Parliament, or the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, is in a different way than how you would like it to be, because our website has actually become a website of the three of you, or the six of you, and there are only the information that you want to find. Therefore, we are looking at the club of representatives, that, if that is true, there will be a special point of the agenda and let the House declare itself, so let the House say - well, we forbid the presence of the Centres of Civil Initiatives, which inform about the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Perhaps you mind if they inform us about our travels, our privileges, our purchases of new cars for colleges, etc. I don't think those are enough reasons for their non-sessions and professional reporting on the work of all of us sitting here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14619	Thank you. Dale, here as chairman of the House of Representatives and Chairman of the College, I would like to inform my colleagues that, in accordance with the instructions on the presence of representatives of NGOs and other subjects of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the College approves, at the request of interested NGOs, the presence of 3 sessions, therefore, not in the jurisdiction of the House, but in the jurisdiction of the College. As for the item on the agenda for the session, it was necessary to prepare the material in order to make it a part of the agenda. On the other hand, I would like to say that at one of the previous sessions, the College has requested some information from a concrete organisation, the Centre of Civil Initiatives, which would be necessary to us and which in fact only go in favour of the increased transparency of all entities operating on the public scene in BiH, including BiH institutions, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, but also the non-governmental sector which is also funded by domestic or foreign funds, but which are actually being registered as the funds of BiH donations. Therefore, the public of BiH, and we who are representatives of the public, have the right to know how they are funded and whether these organisations fulfil their obligations towards this society, as everyone else is obliged to do. Therefore, while awaiting this information, it is not prohibited for counterpart Mehmedović to participate in any NGO, at all of the next sessions. Simply, no approval for an organisation has been granted for this session. But here, I see already there's a part of the replica, however. Is it a replica? __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14621	Look, when you're looking for information about funding and spending funds and NGOs, here I think that's good, that the public knows how they finance themselves. But that's not enough reason to blackmail them into not attending today's session that has very important agenda points, among which I see some of them as an emergency procedure. Is that why the public is informed in an adequate way about the work of this House? That's why I think it's not just today that it's become a problem here to finance the NGO sector. That problem may be back 15 years, and no one's ever asked for it, but it's today. Here's what we want as agents, to know what the reasons are? Is it precisely because they didn't submit a financial report for the past year, for the past month or not, over how long? Therefore, your argument does not stand, and I believe that they should still be allowed to attend today's session. Why not?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14622	Thank you. Let me just finish what I just missed out on. So all the sessions at home are public. As you can see here are cameras, there is a public presence, on the other hand all these sessions are transmitted directly via the Internet. Therefore, all NGOs and the entire public including in particular, which you are talking about, have the right and the possibility to monitor this House session. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14623	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished members of the College. Don't do this to the House of Representatives, this is your decision, but it concerns a complete Parliament. And if you've made a decision not to allow the presence of a representative of a non-governmental organization called the Centre of Civil Initiatives today, I ask you to withdraw it immediately. If you don't withdraw that decision, I turned it around yesterday as a problem at the General College session, then the entire Parliament, not the three of you, will suffer negative consequences, and should suffer negative consequences. I don't want any part of it. The least we can do, to make it possible, so they followed, they, as far as I know, there is a contract with Parliament, there is this Virtual Parliament, so there are a lot of projects here in Parliament, and all of a sudden for some reason, completely unnecessary, we draw on ourselves public anger. That's how it's been done with other things before. Don't do that. If you stay with your decision, then put it as a part of the agenda, to see if you have the support of the House. We've chosen you, you're the first among equal 42, this is an important decision and we're looking as a club to determine a complete home. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14624	Thank you. I just want to make it right, that's all. Mr. Džaferović, you didn't choose me. You voted against my election. Honorable representative Denis Bećirović, the first deputy president.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14625	Honored chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I would ask, after explaining a few things, the Secretary of the House of Representatives to interpret us in a business manner, is it possible at the time when the agenda is to be established, so let's see if there are any changes and additions to the agenda, in this way to open the debate, or is this an introduction to some practice that all clubs can, in future, initiate discussions at the beginning of the session, probably in the presence of a little more cameras, at the beginning for free advertising. However, I must say, I am surprised by the outcry of counterpart Mehmedović, who in one demagogue manner said several difficult lies at the beginning of this session. First lie, about cars. To be clear to the end, here I publicly invite the media and everyone else to investigate who is driving six of us to the College, and one is from the SDA, like the SDP and other parties in that Joint College, what kind of car, of what kind of brand, which is the price, to tell the public, so we can see who can distribute the demagogy, who can't get on that first topic. The other thing, around the website, is one notorious lie again. So, there is an information sector, so far no member of the College is familiar with the fact that any MP, if he had any activity, is forbidden to be published on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly website. If there were any of those cases, that should be said immediately, so let's see what's going on. And I remind you, when it comes to six members of the College, that it is also a member of the SDA, as is the SDP of one member of the College and of the other party. No party has two members of the College, but one at a time. Therefore, although it is formal, although it is represented as an opposition party, 5 has a member of the Parliamentary Assembly's College, unlike the SBB, who assumes responsibility and has no member of the College, to clarify that as well. And the third thing, regarding the Centre of Civil Initiatives, I don't know why such a frontal attack on members of the College's team? Why the distortion of facts? As long as I'm in the middle of yesterday and at a session of the Board, no decision has been made on any lengthy banning the presence of the Centre of Civil Initiatives, and by the way, but if you want to deal with the facts, then it is fair to say that there was no agreement on this issue in the College. And it's by decision and by regulation, which was voted by a member of the SDA College. So when we discuss these things, it would be good to actually compare some things and not make unnecessary problems at the beginning of the session, because today we have very important issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14626	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14627	I apologize for calling again. But look, as far as business is concerned, there's been an open debate on the agenda. And I suggested a point, if it's true that you've made a decision on the ban. I don't know because I wasn't present at your session, I'm not interested in it. But it's obvious that you've made such a decision as to whether or not it's a temporal character or not, it's only worth one session. So, I don't need the Rules of Procedure at all, and here's enough for these few years to learn. The second thing, if it's about demagogy, Mr. Denise Bećirović, I remember your moves on a strong urge that all those NGOs, from the NGO sector, attend the sessions here in the past term. Why, why has there been such a drastic change in your attitude? I wonder if it's just because you're in position right now and you're not in opposition? And is it really something hiding in today's session? And as far as the truth is concerned, as far as I know, here's what I read from the media, I don't have a chance to inform us about you in the College or anyone there in professional services has already made a decision on the reservation of funds for the purchase of three new cars. Maybe that's not true. Here's what you're gonna say today whether it's true or not. And whoever's driving, what kind of private car, let him drive whatever he wants, you drive the official cars, and that's what I'm talking about today in my discussion. So there's no frontal attack, no desire to do anything about it right now, we just want the public to know what's really going on here.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14628	Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, vice-president, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14629	Dear fellow Mehmedović, I am pleased that you have now publicly admitted that you are chronically uninformed when it comes to the work of the Parliamentary Assembly and the work of the College. If it were 6 people from the BiH Party, from the SBB, I would understand, people don't have anyone in the Joint College. You have a member of the Joint College, but you don't seem to be communicating with him, so you don't have one piece of information. If that's how you can't get the information, then we can think about showing you the facts in another way, nothing else. Secondly, you're telling the truth again, you're saying again that who voted in the College, etc. You're imputing to me that I've changed my attitude, and I'm openly telling you what my position was, that's what he was in the past few years, and that's what he was in college yesterday. So I haven't changed any attitude. And I'm really inviting you, because of the magnitude and importance of the agenda, not to make a circus here in front of the cameras, without any arguments.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14630	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14631	Thank you, Your Honor. My replica refers to the discussions of a colleague from the SDA. As far as the SDS Club is concerned, we fully support the Kolegijum's decision and we think it should have been made before and that it should be of lasting character. I don't see what the consequences of this House can be. On the contrary, all of us here in this House are already suffering the consequences of an unobstructive, tenorous report by the Centre of Civil Initiatives with a very questionable methodology. I don't know if someone who counts someone's parliamentary issues and is thus qualified by his work, and ignores all that work on the ground, ignores working with citizens, is that an objective methodology? Is it an objective methodology to compare this Parliament's work with the Parliament of Croatia or the Parliament of Serbia, where there are entirely different competences? So together with the entity parliaments, we have competences such as the Croatian Parliament. Third thing, calling on some virtual parliament. Here's what I'm gonna say, and I've already said it in public. The SDS MPs' club refused the Centre of Civil Initiatives to meet in that Virtual Parliament, we asked them in writing to take down our names. And they continue to deceive the public and invite them to ask questions there. We don't need any Centre of Civil Initiatives, foreign NGOs paid to be indirect between us and our voters. And until the Centre of Civil Initiatives changes its methodology of work, until their reports are truly objective, such a decision by the College will have the support of the Serbian Democratic Party Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14632	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14633	So, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have no intention of waiting anyone here for a lecture on the principle of democratic control of power and the 7 mechanisms modern democracy uses in democratic control of government. The NGO certainly takes up one of the very important places in these mechanisms, but I don't want to talk about it, there's no need, I mean these are familiar things and I don't want to rephrase it anymore. Whoever knows what that means, then they'll be worried about this decision that you've made. Mr. Ljubić, I have stood up to ask you to put yourself in the role required by the Constitution of BiH and the Rules of Procedure, when it comes to the chairman of the House, and to make relevant comments. Your comment that I didn't vote for you, so that as a matter of fact you have no obligation to what I'm saying, I'm interpreting it as such, is one inappropriate comment. Place yourself in the role as prescribed by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. And we weren't looking for anything more, like a club, but a part of the agenda. We suggest that it be the first item of the agenda. If you have made the decision, which is, today, not to give permission to an NGO called the Centre of Civil Initiatives, to attend the session, we ask that the House be declared and nothing more. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14634	Thank you. Comrade Džaferović, you said – we chose you. So, you've performed before, like the SDA Club. And that's why I said, correct the wrong assumption, that you didn't choose me. If you had said this Parliament had chosen you, surely my comment would have been different. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14635	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Džaferović, there are no democratic principles at stake here. The work of this Parliament is public, the Centre of Civil Initiatives can sit fine in their office today, watch over our website transmission and, as counterpart Šemsudin Mehmedović said, adequately inform the public. These media here are also adequately informing the public, and this information is available to the Centre of Civil Initiatives. I don't see why the Centre of Civil Initiatives would be privileged, why would it be a sacred cow? Here I'll say, if they apply again, I will personally try and organize at least 20 RS NGOs to seek the presence of each of these sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14636	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Kunić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14637	I think that, thank the chairman, I think I am of the few who made an observation, at an earlier stage, to the work of the Centre of Civil Initiatives, and that in this respect I have asked the question of the College. And I really approve of the Kolegijum's decision, and I don't think we should go through this methodology to attack the College, there's no reason, and it has to have some authority and show that it's not 8 of this wildness, that anyone who wants to speak can speak. Please, this Centre of Civil Initiatives has drawn such hatred upon the MPs, that this is a very unpleasant situation when you cross the street. The question is, why? They keep getting paid on the agenda. Yes, the wages are high. But in this country you have thousands and thousands of people with higher salaries than MPs. This is the Centre of Civil Initiatives or other NGOs not at all interested, not interested. Their methodology of work, as Miss Pandurević said, is questionable. And... reason loses its substance when you read some of their reports, give comparative data, facts don't match at all. I was speaking then, so you cannot compare this Parliament to the Croatian Parliament or the Serbian Parliament. There are 280 MPs there, I don't know how many 180-200 etc., and there are 42. This is a complex state, a federal state where decisions are made on many levels, not just in this House. So it's a difference like heaven and earth. This, these facts are not respected by the Centre of Civil Initiatives, put itself above Parliament, please, above Parliament. They're allowed everything, and they're not allowed any conjecture. So please, we have to be responsible for our sayings, for something we find public, it's absolutely, regardless of the NGO sector or the government sector. As for the objection to the College, cars, etc. I think this Parliament, at least by my knowledge, is not at the top of the joint institutions by consumption and especially the College, and I don't think there's much to be said for executive power, not even close. Therefore, I also approve of this decision and will always support the College when it makes a decision that corresponds to the real state, or reality, of a reasonable dimension.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14638	Time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14639	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14640	Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, debate on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14641	I don't know if it makes any more sense to go back to the agenda. So I have a dilemma about point 17 that I absolutely support, to discuss it, but I'm speaking from a procedural aspect. True, we have an initiative and a proposal to include in the agenda from the committee responsible, the commission dealing with this issue, but I have no opinion on this report. Well, I don't know if maybe we should have had an opinion, or if maybe the promoter should have run the initiative at the same time and given an opinion. So, I'm going to insist on having the committee's opinion on this matter predetermined. And I repeat, I absolutely see the need to discuss not only this individual case, but usually one practice that I'm going to talk about, of course, when I'm in a position to discuss this point of the agenda. And by the time I hear from you, you won't mind me saying two or three sentences about this situation. So, I just now found out that the Centre of Civil Initiatives got a yellow card. There are different opinions, it's safe, and we all experience different things, etc. However, this Parliament must indeed do everything to make his public work unquestionable, no matter how we experience the presence of anyone in this Parliament who has the right to do so. So, I suggest and perhaps it was necessary to bring dialogue with the Centre of Civil Initiatives and on methodology and on how to report, etc., and not in any way like this. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not happy that it happened that they were eliminated for a short time. I don't think it's good. And you'll see that today we've given very good creamworth and all the attention to the public and the media will deal with this. You won't have a single sentence about anything that we'll do today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14642	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, vice-president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14643	I thank the chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I want to say a few words about this question, which I think the SDA proposal is as a part of the agenda, and I expect the draft agenda to come in writing. And I would ask the secretary of the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Representatives for the answer given to the Secretariat of the entire Parliamentary Assembly, of the above-mentioned NGO to be delivered to all MPs, so that they know what we are voting on here, on what agenda proposal and on what answers. Namely, since the NGO daily makes demands for session attendance, and we wanted to regulate it in the College and one and the other home. You've also been present in past terms, that we've had problems with some NGOs, and we wanted to bring it into order. I think that was a good move. A certain NGO wants it to be exclusive, which I find inadmissible in this country, to give exclusiveness to any NGO. To enter the White Hall at a small door, and to target the ranks of MPs here, and we have seen that these NGOs came from after the political party and then came into a political struggle. Their answer was inappropriate. The answer in which he says that everything about their organization can be found on a video site. It was not an answer to how many employees there are in this NGO, how much their personal income and everything they say about the MPs. That's not principled. It is only required to deliver what they report to us here in Parliament. And it has been said that when these data are delivered, a request for the session will be considered and I don't see any reason why these journalists here and all the media representatives are here and they're passing on everything that happens at the sessions. Why can't the NGOs, and here, among other things, be there, behind and monitor the work of this Parliament. Why someone insists on being an exclusive representative of the citizens and that they keep an eye on everything. So there's no reason to be a problem here. And, I think the only political or pseudo political problem is being followed by colleagues who both approve or do not approve of it, only in the second House, where their representative is a member of the College. I think we have taken too much time to do things where the College's intention is to protect the integrity of both Parliament and fellow parliamentarians, and that all NGOs and all those present at these sessions are brought to one level, that there is no exclusiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14644	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14645	Thank you. Well, since I've exhausted the replicas about what my colleague Belkić said, at point 17. Look out, counterpart Belkić, this report was sent by the Commission to Parliament on the basis of a performance by former workers, as it was called, entity customs administrations. We got that play. Based on this play, we've also come up with a report from the Ombudsman. These people, they don't have judicial protection anymore. The courts said it was wrong and we just want this Parliament, so it's okay, we've sent this Parliament a Special Report, so let Parliament take further steps, of course this Special Report has our support. So on the basis of the play, a report was sent as the Commission's opinion which has the support and that Parliament now sees what to do with it and what steps further and based on this report, how to help these people. 'Cause they don't have a courtroom here anymore, or any one of them. So one institution placed itself above the system, deafens itself to both the court's order and the Ombudsman's reports and everything. And if this Parliament as their last maybe hope doesn't help them, I don't know what to do next.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14646	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14647	...a replica, so I was talking about the procedural aspect, if you listened well. So I absolutely did not question the need to discuss the rights of these people. Make sure I make a big contribution. I'm just from the point of view of the procedure saying, you've suggested putting in the agenda point, for that point of the agenda, we have no opinion from the competent commission and nothing else. I don't mind, however much the College assesses, the Secretary of the House interprets, I accept, no problem. ... The need for Parliament to address these issues, and we will see what Parliament can do when it comes to judgments of courts, executions, etc. [[Shortly disabled microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14648	Thank you. Here, if you'll excuse me, I'd just like to say a few sentences about this. So, we discussed this issue on both the narrow and the extended college and on the basis of the proposal, the unanimous proposal of the competent commission and the finding that there is material to be discussed, we also included this on the extended college agenda. And of course there were also the home secretary who actually explained the business justification. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14649	I thank the chairman. Well, even though we've been trying to bring order all along, it's just that it's easier for us to work, but obviously it's not going. We were trying to say that the institution of the Expansive College, where many, have their own representatives, that it is used for these things, but unfortunately, we can't do that, yes, that we can't form it, and here we are. We of the SNSD are opposed to this point and I don't think you can even put it to a vote for the following reasons. If we open this process of jurisdiction to the Kolegijum, then at the next session we can expect a request from a club or an MP, why is the security guard standing there and why isn't he there? Why is that camera 20cm higher, the one 10 less? Or why are members of the Kolegijum not wearing the same tie? I mean, I expect one of those questions. The college is responsible for many of the things we have authorized and none of my business. We can ask the question of responsibility to the Kolegijum, to replace the College and the rest. But getting into the way they work, technically, it's a technical question, a completely technical question, nothing else. So we left that between a few thousand NGOs in this country, when we had a last-time problem, to make people order. We've authorized them to make order. And they make that order as best they know and can. Our support for this has and will. And I don't think we can discuss it. So I don't think we can discuss which pen they're writing on a tight college, that's their right. I don't think there's any point in putting these questions at the beginning of the session, taking this much time without using an extended college or any other instruments that we can possibly clarify all these issues. It is very incorrect and extremely rude for all media representatives and present journalists in the hall if there is not one man from the Centre of Civil Initiatives, that today there will be darkness in BiH, so you presented this. No one will know anything and there will be a murder unless the Centres of Civil Initiatives show up. And as far as I know they've been here and there's all the media and that everyone, the people who informs the public, those who need NGOs for other purposes, I don't care. You can't talk about informing the public. But on other needs, no one must prevent and they have the right to do their job to the Centre of Civil Initiatives, no one can stop them. But they are required to have a fundamental right to observe the house, as is required of us. Nothing else has been asked of them. If what they said is true, that kind of insolence hasn't been seen in a long time, it hasn't been seen. To ask someone for something all the time, and at the same time to show that kind of insolence, that kind of insolence, not to say who you are, what you are and how you operate towards Parliament, I, unlike the other Serbian MPs, see a lot of positive things in the discussion of Šemsudin Mehmedović. That kind of disembarkation of the state parliament and trying to bring them down to ride in dots and bicycles, I must tell you that they look miserable by the president of the National Assembly of the RS. And it is often thought at these meetings that he is the president of the state parliament, and that some of his assistants, some of them there, are similar. And if there's any more of them in this room, we're gonna put them down. On the point, I know my colleague Živković has a spine problem, but in the interest of what I'm talking about, I think they'd accept it. Well, it's either bikes or trotines or something. Because watch out, my support to the Centre of Civil Initiatives is great, because the Centre of Civil Initiatives is sending a message that this Parliament should not, that it is unnecessary, that it is only a cost to this country, that this should be abolished. It's a message from the Centre of Civil Initiatives from 12 a year, they didn't say anything positive about us. What are we gonna do, we're just spending money, I don't know where we're useless. When I see their conclusions, I think that's the only conclusion that can be made. And I don't know why you're preventing them from dissipating this House, to the extent that they're putting it in the mud, what have you of the College stuck so much to prevent them from doing so? And I agree with my colleague, Mehmedović, on the bicycles of gentlemen from the state parliament. The power, the powers, the privileges should be given to the chiefs, the cantons, the counties, of course to the entity, the President of Parliament is the man and he will be the face for you. It will always be as long as there are discussions like this, expect him to be the man for you, and you have to respect that, because your colleagues have allowed you to look down on him. I think I agree with Mr. Mehmedović. You should also see this little bit as they come to these coats and ties, it should be reduced to something more appropriate and in some way. From where, why would they have such expensive coats? The leather one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14650	Thank you. This tie was given to me by a colleague from six, one. Dear Representative Emir Kabil, debate on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14651	Dear President, dear colleagues. We at the SBB Club did not receive adequate information about all these events related to the Centre of Civil Initiatives, which prompted such a heated debate during today. And it's obvious that, unfortunately, this thing that I think is the legitimate right of the rope of Klegi, the absolutely legitimate right of the rope of the College, receives dimensions that are purely political why am I saying this? I'm saying this for a reason why I think the college and the Rules of Procedure have the right to introduce order when it comes to NGOs. All NGOs must have equal access to this Parliament. This Parliament is open, we have links on the Internet and everyone can attend this session and bring their opinion on the work of this Parliament. Unfortunately, the situation has created that certain NGOs, depending on how much money they receive and who finance them, have a greater or smaller public impact. I must tell you that the position of MPs at this time is the most deplorable, most pathetic in this House's history. I am absolutely not honored to be a member of this Parliament, although I have been elected throughout the country between 42 people and I was proud to be a member of this Parliament at first. But every day they call us journalists, they haunt us, they ask us where they travel, how they travel, what cars are used, what tie you wear, who bought you, who bought you a suit and shit like that? It's nonsense, but these nonsense are initiated by someone who wants to transfer all the problems of this country to 42 people, which is absolutely nonsensical. These people here, Parliamentarians whatever they are, and there's someone who chose them, they're not guilty that we don't have enough laws, that we don't have enough proposals, changes and additions to those laws. These 42 people are not to blame for someone not filling us with these new laws that we are going to discuss here in a democratic procedure, fight and fight, so if we have to fight. These 42 people are not guilty, in my opinion, which is one of the most peaceful parliaments in Europe. And that's disturbing. This is a very peaceful Parliament, which, unfortunately, only air-conditioned. Never will any 13 of these NGOs make any positive and... and quantitatively done analysis of this Parliament stand out as positive. For example, in order to somehow bring Parliament together with life, we have organised a meeting in the Finance and Budget Commission, which was paid by foreigners, again the US government in one village, is called Ethno Village. Believe me, this meeting they organised in order to show that there are positive stories in one part of BiH, as there are in the other and in the third and that we are walking where absolutely this country will not cost one mark of the meeting, we have had such inconveniences, such inconveniences, that some MPs have been presented in some newspapers as criminals. Niko of us in this House, none of us had the courage, because he couldn't protect that man. They told me how much money I got that I... and that's the ground with the Ethno village. So we can't even show a positive story, because right now this other side says – what you chose is this positive story. Of course, NGOs and various centres have said – the spending of state money. I'm telling you, the vehicles that I, which I would get as chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, which should get me to drive from Tuzla to Sarajevo, I wouldn't sit in that car, because it's really worth a lot. I'm coming in my car. These vehicles are funny, and I think pointing out these problems is simply clouding the underlying problem, which is that some others don't work, and they don't like to switch to this House. We don't have papers, gentlemen, we don't have laws, suggestions. Why is this one law, the addition of the Public Procurement Act, lies in the Council of Ministers for 5-6 months, and will not be passed? Why? Because with this law... the benefits of those who will be permanent and permanent in the institutions of this state. We will not see that law, or we will see it before the end of this term. That's why I want to tell you today that the protection of certain NGOs is at least deplaced. I'm giving absolute support to the college on this decision, and you need to put this all in order. If anyone thinks they're going to get a few more pluses through some paid shows in the election campaign, the buyrum, okay. But I personally believe that this way and this controversy is at least deplaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14652	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Domazet, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14653	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs. I understand the Kolegijum's decision and, of course, I will respect it, but the debate that developed here has driven me to give my view of this issue. I believe that we must not question cooperation with the civil sector by any act, because it is indeed a form of democratic control of Parliament, not only of Parliament, but of the assembly and councils at municipal level, and in this respect I do not think there is any political party that declaredly does not express the need for co-operation with the non-governmental, or civil sector. 14 We now have a specific question from the Centre of Civil Initiatives. In many civil sector organisations, there are very different organised individual organisations. We see that some stand out with their leadership, let's say the Tender Association is ahead in public procurement activities, Transparensi Internešnel is ahead in the fight against corruption. Civil initiatives are trying to take their own, to win a leading position in the control of parliamentary, or assembly action. We cannot question their intentions, we cannot question the legitimacy of such an approach. And I think that instead of confrontation, we need to develop a partnership. We may be unhappy with the report of the Centre of Civil Initiatives, but let us discuss the essence of the problem, whether the methodologies are correct, whether the data used are relevant, whether the conclusions are based on argument and so on.? So we have a need and we need to cooperate. We don't have to agree, but we can't translate that disagreement into destruction, to restrictive measures, in a way that prevents these organizations from working. So I fully understand the current situation, but for me, the key question is, what about the future? And I think it would be good if we had a debate on that issue. Let the basis for a debate be prepared, we can also organise round tables in this regard, but I think it is not worth sending from this Parliament a message that we are now implementing restrictive measures towards the civil sector and that they are not welcome in our action. It would also be a very wrong message, an incorrect message, because I don't think there's such a mood, but it shouldn't be fed. Therefore,...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14654	Your Honor, I'm warning you on time alone.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14655	I'd like to conclude with that proposal and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14656	Thank you. I just want to point out one more time, so the debate is limited to three minutes and we stick to it. And the answer to Mr. Ante Domazet's esteemed representative. So, we are in dialogue with the Centre of Civil Initiatives and as the College and I personally took part here in the inaugural presentation of the Virtual Parliament project in the position of the chairman of the House of Representatives. However, this is about a concrete memo to colleagues to the relevant NGO and the answer that we have received to this memo is shared to you and let each of you read it so that it will identify the reasons why we once, I say, have denied participation in this session until it is received a satisfactory or appropriate answer. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14657	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I volunteered for the replica to limit myself so that you wouldn't go there at that time, and like this, I spoke repeatedly about this Civil Initiative Center, giving them 15 maximum support. But since they themselves are out of 10,000 NGOs, no one knows how many they have, they're the only ones in charge. The second thing, I go first to participate in what my colleague Pandurević said to the Virtual Parliament, so when you see that picture, so what Obama doesn't have, people who don't see, who don't know our situation, and no one there has presented that nine MPs are sitting in 12 square meters, but when you go in that space, that's nice, that's what anyone sees says look at these thieves again. So I asked them direct questions. How is it possible to compare this Parliament to any parliament in the environment? Well there are one-national parliaments, here everything has to go to a hundred alignments. And then here's one in Mostar, here they are once in Sarajevo, here they are in Banja Luka, the unemployed, doing nothing, bringing themselves some to adopt 100 laws, productivity 5%, adopted 10%. All incorrect information and additional public service. If they had informed what they were doing here, but it mattered to them who had reported how many times to the replica, who had as many times as I don't know, the exposure, and it was for them some as a supposed referent, what, I don't know what to call it, what they were counting. However, the basics wherever they came from, the big salaries, they never said which salaries, whose salaries, but only MPs, were only about to use, were even rougher words, but I won't be with them because I supported them, but they spent days here, every day with us, working, but they didn't really contribute, but they declared themselves a leader's organization and they had a hat, and just as one of the colleagues said, from these Centres of Civil Initiatives, many of them tried to vote in this party and that party, so when they failed, remember that Đikić, fell out here somewhere in our party, here he now returned to the director there. Well, this other candidate of theirs was a failure back there so he could attack us because he failed, that's it. So now he's wrong to choose Slavko Jovičić as MP again, and now he's not, and now he's going to send his emissary back here to count how many times I've reported for the line, as if that's important. That's why I'm giving you maximum support. And if you want to give everyone a chance then the sessions to be held in Zetri so that 10,000 representatives of NGOs can be up at the gallery and ask us all what they need, and then what would that look like? It would look like what it looked like so far, thieves in Parliament and do nothing else, unemployed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14658	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14659	Well, here, very briefly, although I appreciate it, I was surprised by the discussion of my fellow Domazet, I suppose he read in response to the Centre of Civil Initiatives what they responded very rudely. It says, "The law does not apply to us, the law does not apply to us." What law violated the Kolegijum when it acted in these cases? So no, that's when we get out of that movie, that's when we look for anarchy. It's not about the law. And maybe it doesn't apply. But at the same time, they are looking for a privileged position to break the law to meet them. Very incorrect. Write this out publicly will only confirm the fact that the budget of the Centre of Civil Initiatives is several million, very 16 non-transparent and that it comes from abroad and I sign everything that my colleague Kabil said, that this state is to this extent anarchical that it must not question whether someone from abroad has any interest in making what it is. No, we can't stand for absolute freedom. Let's take a look at what the absolute freedom you stand for looks like? And "The vultures" are an NGO and they want to be the leader, you see that they bring down half the city in an effort to be leaders of both "Delija“ and "Grobari". You want us to bring them in full of their equipment here, too, if we think we're opening a dialogue with them. And the Ravnog movement is an NGO. You want us to bring them in uniforms here in their full equipment and they want to be leaders in something. We have, in respect of this problem, solved in the best possible way by authorising the Kolegijum to which three representatives, three peoples, and under the Rules of Procedure and Law, were given the authority to take care of the integrity of this Parliament and it worked well. After politely asking the cultural question that 9.999 NGOs would answer, only one will not, human, polite question. If they had asked any other questions, I would have stood up. Let's see who's coming to us here, who's who and what are they, nothing else. And suddenly the question arises why won't someone say it in this country, and the one who every day, and let me, I don't have a problem with it, I think it's the destruction of Parliament's integrity, I don't think it's right, but if someone cares, I don't have a problem with what they're opening all possible figures here. I don't have a problem, and let's, if it's about the public. But you can see what they're sending a message when that public gets to them, and many people in this country are acting like this and these 42 unfortunate people are trying to put all the problems that a colleague said. A member of the country's presidency does not want to hear about this parliament, Mr Izetbegović. He doesn't want to come. He has the highest authority with the other two defense colleagues, foreign policy, for everyone, he doesn't think of anything, anything to inform us, or to see us, or to hear us, that's not even the Centre of Civil Initiatives, that's not even the SDA's story, that this is an invisible problem in this country. I have to be honest, the only man for these two mandates in my memory, I've seen Haris Silajdžić most of the time here, to be honest. And it was very small, but there's a fog that reminds me.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14660	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14661	I end up, it's not a problem for the Centre of Civil Initiatives or this Parliament. People are fighting there about ambassadors and everything else and nobody here can ask them to come here, but here we are now taking three hours of one NGO, against which we are not, asking only to respect the order of the house, nothing else. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14662	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14663	Dear colleagues and colleagues. 17 I thought I wasn't talking about this at all, but I think this might be the only time we have a chance to say what we think about all this. I think today's discussion and question of your own credibility and dignity, and I think we should call things a real name. First of all, I want to welcome the College's decision to start seducing order and keeping order, so seducing order, preserves both our dignity and our dignity. This Parliament has long become a place where anyone can come and wipe his leg and then move away. No one has the right to do that. And if this is the beginning of law enforcement, and I'm quite aware of what this way of speech means, when it comes to NGOs, then I support it. So I don't belong to those people who don't have enough sensitivity to work for the NGO sector. I was a frequent actor in their work and supported them whenever they had useful and healthy ideas. But some things turn into their opposite, and I want to talk about them. Here we got this letter, I can't believe that any NGO, if there's any respect for one Parliament can say, we're not obliged to respond to your request for information. So what a sentence you couldn't give to your friend who knows and respects you, let alone one Parliament. That sentence says how much they respect Parliament itself. The other thing is, I have told them on several occasions, let them, when you make an evaluation of your reports, make one session in Parliament, invite all MPs, and ask you to hear what they say about it, because the issue of the work of MPs in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples is not just a matter of plenary sessions. They never attend meetings of the working bodies of Parliament, so all the work of the parliaments takes place through the work of their working bodies. And whoever doesn't work in the working body and only politically step up at Parliament's meetings, it's not work, and they record it. So you can be an extremely high-quality MP who will make a lot of contributions to the work of the working body, but that's not worth anything because you're not registered by the organisation that does it. Finally, the question needs to be asked – who are people, with what recognition do these people do this job? Niko of them have ever been to Parliament or been familiar with parliamentary work. Can someone who doesn't know parliamentary life and work evaluate who's parliamentary? Well, that would be, in international circles, it would be unimaginable that some NGO that anyone assesses, who gave her the money to work, that she would evaluate someone she doesn't even know how it works. I would never say that our work should not be exposed to the public, should be. And we know that often
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14664	Time
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14665	We have something to say and what to keep quiet about. But I think that the organization that brings us the project – the Virtual Parliament and that previously none of the MPs ask if you need this, what do you think about this, if you would change something about this, it's money laundering. And just to remind you, in the last term, we had NGOs that were bringing in, adopt this project so that we could take the money, and you, so we can take you to America. It was so, we'll give you something just to wash our money. So, we should put everything under the bat, everyone should be responsible for what they're doing, and every NGO should be judged by us as they judge us. Thank you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14666	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Domazet, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14667	Well, in the context of what I said I would only like to say about what my colleague Kalabić said, to say that from credibility to feeling powerless is a very small path, often not more than one step. So the credibility of this Parliament is not questionable, it is not, we must really promote, build, respect, and stand up for it in every sense. But reactions to the functioning of NGOs, as we have heard so far, often express impotence, do not take that step. So we simply need to feel security for what we do, we need to develop a partnership with NGOs and have clear views, but not question their role. Listen, we're putting ourselves in a role right now so we can check out where they get the money. So there are state institutions that need to do this, why should Parliament do it? They turn to their donors, have their own programs and if donors express support they express, then confirm their public role, their good marketing orientation and they have the right to function. Well it's a legitimate right, it's a right based on both the Constitution and the law and all the other elements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14668	Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14669	Dear Professor Domazet, I really want to believe in your good intentions to question the work of the NGO sector is not directed. I really think so. But we are now not talking about the principle of co-operation with the NGO sector, we are talking about an NGO and our experience in work so far. When you say, "It's none of our business where and how they get the money." I just want to remind you that you can bring down the government through the NGO sector. By way of the NGO sector, you can tear down certain policy options for which you get money to do so. And it's nothing that hasn't been seen. You can do a lot of things out there that are unimaginable, but they're very mind-blowing with us. So, don't be sure, remember under the political party election law they can't get money from outside. Why? Well, who knows how anything could affect that path. NGOs that don't have a degree of control, especially. So, please, I'm talking about an NGO, I'm talking about the concrete experiences we have with her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14670	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14671	Fortunately, I'm out, and I hope we're done. Of course I can't accept the interpretations that lead to complete anarchy. What is trying to frame us is the complete anarchy and rolling of this House in one of the frogs. This is the first, only and only minor reaction of the College after several thousand attacks on this Parliament, the first, the only and the weak reaction. It's just an attempt to introduce order and it's now interpreted as some kind of iron fist, some dictatorship towards the NGO sector. This is where the NGO did what they wanted, and that we understand who the snakes bit and the lizard is afraid of. Would you, Mr. Domazet, accept the NGO "Resistance" in Sarajevo and not ask for anything and accept everything she has done in Serbia and other countries? To bring down power here with money bags, suitcases from abroad under the company "NeGovernmental Organization, don't touch and don't touch". We all thought of the "Resistance" differently, because it was precisely this demagogue and deception that fed us to find out today what it was about. If someone doesn't learn something from me or ask me, I'm saying in my own name, that this kind of story is being sold to us, I'm more, I'm not a customer of that story anymore, and I don't intend to stop others from buying that story or that they don't believe in it, but they have an obligation to promote it. Don't ask anyone in this country where he's from, it means that any NGO that is our legislation, because we were supposed to go to meet them, this is what a colleague of Majkićka's told him about, that she can become a legal and legitimate money launderer and that she can become a legal haven for different ideas that can be against both the state and against the Constitution and against the people under the company of freedom, absolute freedom of the non-governmental sector, and absolute freedom we know what she's bordering and what she's leading to. I may once, I admit, I was wrong, maybe I was in error once, I wasn't. And that's what I'm saying for myself, I don't believe that story. It's like a lot of hollow stories that have been sold in these rooms and that have brought accidents to everyone and we're just finding out in someone's memoirs what happened and what happened. And I don't believe I'm going to get 10 memoirs, I can outlive each other, and then I don't have any use for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14672	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Bosić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14673	The Honorable Chairman. First of all, we should be free society and we from the public's point of view and we are free society, because this Parliament is public and everyone who is interested can follow it through direct internet transmission and I believe that many NGOs are doing it now. We are an unfree society from the point of view of large media control and influences from various sides on public change and you will see that an NGO, such as the CCI, will get far greater space in any media than a much more significant political party. And in this society everyone can have an opinion and express it and we advocate that kind of freedom of speech, but we also advocate responsibility for the spoken word, and that's not here. 20 I support, as the SDS Club, your decision not to get the right to sit here based on this CCI response and we believe that this decision should be extended and not only for this session, and here I will explain why. There's a movement of politics and anti-politicals. So in this system, politics works and anti-politicals work. Politics are institutions, political parties, government, position, opposition. And there's an increasing anti-political movement that claims that no institution does its job, that no politician does what they should do, that they're all the same and that they're all thieves. And that applies to this Parliament here. Anti-politicals deny the existence of institutions. I support your decision from the point of view to show the integrity of this institution, no matter what we think of any institution in private, every institution should have its own dignity. And attacks of this kind, as they come from individual NGOs that are obviously programmed and donated on the side to do this anti-political work, are actually aimed at bringing anarchy into society. I guarantee you, no matter how bad this system is here we attend, that anarchy is a hundred times worse. Anarchy has also led to this kind of antipolitical movement, leading to what they call "Arab Spring" in Arab countries. So look around and see how people now live there and how many steps or decades they've taken backwards. And from that point of view, I also support this debate that this Parliament raises its voice and returns BiH's politics to democratic relations, and everyone has the right to follow this Parliament, each has the right to speak their mind. The CCI has the right to give its opinion, has the right and to say what we disagree with, so it has the right and to agree in its reports as it has done so far. But this Parliament and the institutions should retain the basic level of their dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14674	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14675	Business intervention, though post-festum is and I can't take this hour and a half back. And to tell you the truth, this full debate to me as an opposition MP suits me. Therefore, the public has an opportunity to see the government's attitude towards the NGO sector, civil society and so on. As much as you look at me now, you'll see how the dialogue in this society will be held in the next few days. _________(?) And it's supposed to be run. Of course, it's supposed to be run. I suggest, you see the proposer, or the driver of this debate, was properly warned by the College to propose a agenda point. The promoter did it a long time ago. So the debate, in my opinion, and the proposed agenda, is done. Let's get to the bottom of this agenda and get to work. But we lost an hour and a half. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14677	I thank my colleague Belkić for this business intervention. That's exactly what we're waiting for in college, so we'll get a chance to put this SDA proposal on the stand. So, the SDA Club has writtenly proposed as the first item of the agenda of today's session and I propose, so I quote, Considering the Decision of the College of the Parliamentary House of BiH on the denial of the presence of today's meeting of the NGO at the Centre of Civil Initiatives. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14682	Thank you. I must say that I have no comment for the simple reason why I got the answer signed by the head of the cabinet of the President of the Constitutional Court of BiH. I think that this is inappropriate, that so far, according to the internal arrangements in the Constitutional Court on how to process and answer, the 25 parliamentary questions of the President of the Court have been answered. If I wanted to ask this question, my chief of staff would have asked the Chief of Staff of the Constitutional Court. So, I'm asking that the President of the Constitutional Court be signed behind this answer so that I can make a comment and believe that comment will not be at all... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14683	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14684	The Honorable Chairman. You really didn't read my name that I got the answer, but I got an interesting letter, which came from the Secretary General and then from the Foreign Ministry, which says that my question, which almost came from a year ago, doesn't exist. They do not have it at the General Secretariat, nor do they have it at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to which it was addressed. I would really ask the sekretarijat to see what it is and that the question, i.e. the initiative, which was addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 07.06.2012 and accepted at this House, is finally being answered. It's really inappropriate for these things to happen.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14685	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14686	I'm glad I got the answer but its contents are absolutely not. You know that rabbit chases out a bear. I have been trying for several years to contribute to the process of bringing BiH closer to the NATO alliance. I'm asking the pravobranilaštvo, I'm asking the Department of Defense, etc. that after two, three years from the Ministry of Defence I would be informed that none of the locations, of the 63 designated perspectives, have prepared the documentation and that it is not possible to prepare it. They don't match sketches, they don't match performances, etc., etc. That's terrible, that's terrible. And our top executives in Tallinn made a statement at the international summit that this matter would be resolved quickly, the Presidency made a decision, etc. So MPs have this answer, I'd like you to look at it, this is terrible. Finally, the defence ministry says a decision should be made to assign the 63rd location to the defence ministry. If that's the case, I don't think so because there's a Sucession Agreement, etc., we'll discuss it when it's the Attorney General's Office's report, if that's why the Defense Department didn't come here three years ago with a decision. If there are political problems then you should say... 26 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, yes, yes, let it be said that Dodik is in NATO. Okay, no problem, just so we know, we're not exhausted and we're not lying. So, of course, I will continue my activities on this issue because I find it extremely important but, I say, the problem is not working. People don't work, they just talk and at least work. If they disagree, even the location in Capljina they say is registered, it says – it is not properly recorded. So if he didn't, he's three years old the way it happened, Incko made records of the list of assets, etc., check people, work. People don't work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14688	Thank you. Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14689	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I received an answer to my parliamentary question asked at the 40th session of the House of Representatives. It was related, therefore, to why the BiH Official Journal does not apply the BiH Official Journal in a way that allows free access to the "Official Messenger" content on its internet address. And I received an answer from the Ministry of Justice, so it sent a statement to the BiH Official Journal to make this statement. They wrote that it is possible to access every BiH citizen. But this is partly true. In 2009, this House of Representatives adopted amendments and additions to the Law on the Official Messenger, which meant such a possibility. And you won't believe, here I am now checking, the official messenger deceives both the public and the Council of Ministers that the possibility of free access is present. True, or since 07 January 2010. When amendments and additions to this Act have been published. Try clicking on any "Official Messenger" published since 2009 and ever before, you do not have access without a password and without the ability to have a subscription. In this regard, I believe that whether it was necessary to write on all the electronic editions of the "Official Messenger" so that they would imply it. And secondly, the Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I believe that it is high time to seek the amendments and additions of the Law on the Official Messenger, which the laws and other acts adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH were published on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's website as they work, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for its acts, and the Federal Parliament, and so that citizens of all the laws, as property of this Parliament, would have free access. Thank you very much. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14690	Thank you. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14691	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. I've got six answers to six questions today, so I'm not able to comment on everything, but I'm going to comment on two answers. That is why I am sorry that there is no Centre of Civil Initiatives because it was precisely my question of what we MPs often discuss, which we often argue about and these are the receipts of MPs, so I have received a reply about individual institutions in the Federation as to what their salaries are and the institutions for which the RS is responsible. That's why I'm sorry, I'm saying, because there's no Civil Initiative Centre, they could have had this information right away, but I hope they're monitoring this session so they'll have and can get this answer. I can only say that in certain federal institutions, certain public enterprises believe that there are salaries that are much higher, I believe that you have this answer basically greater than the salaries of MPs. So I'm satisfied with these answers. And I can comment on another response from the foreign ministry, Minister Zlatko Lagumdžija has signed, so he is not any adviser. From this answer, I'm going to ask three new questions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14692	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14693	Thank you, Chairman. Here, let me also comment on my question. I've asked a very clear question and I've received an answer that's clear but that's not on my question. So, I asked when CITES would come to life in BiH as well as 175 UN members, but I didn't, if I had asked if anyone in BiH was working to revive CITES, then that would be the right answer, and this way I don't have, it means when it will happen. I can't say that the answer, I can't even criticise what's written, means until the end, because really, it means for you fellow MPs who possibly don't know and don't know this matter the answer is, so it went well in response, but in the end it is said that it is currently working actively to establish..., etc. But that wasn't my question. So I want at least to be shown around, so for example. It will be this or that year, in this or that part of this year or that year. So I think, uh, this is how it works, it can be 20 years from now. But I wonder if it'll be in a year or two or 20. So, if you'll excuse me. Thank you. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14694	Thank you. Dear representative Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14695	...let me welcome everyone present. My question concerning the preparation of the organ transplant law and... in BiH I waited more than a year for a response from the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Like this, I'm partially satisfied with the answer. The BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs briefly explained to me the answers from the health ministries of both entities and Brcko District, so I ask the Ministry to give me a full opinion and a written response from both the health ministry, means both entities and Brcko District. Furthermore, I would also like to ask the opinion of the Health Ministers' Conference, as it is mentioned here in 2010, the latest opinion on the issue, as well as the opinion of the working group on the drafting of the BiH Accession Plan for Eurotransplant, which, in fact, the Ministers' Conference... is in charge of this. And among other things, what has been done, as I have here a certain opinion of the working group that it is necessary to establish a single structure at the state level for the development of transplant medicine in BiH that will be responsible for the implementation of activities related to joining Eurotransplant membership and the development of situational analysis in BiH, the preparation of strategic and legal documents agreed with the EU, directives in this area and internal coordination. Please, so this Ministers' Conference in the field of health and the task force to tell me what has been done specifically on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14696	Thank you. We have four other MPs who want to comment on the answers received, and then we start with new questions and initiatives. The word is Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14697	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question was when this Parliament will find the BiH Export Promotion Strategy in 2012-2015. I received a reply from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations that consultations show non-acceptability, with entities showing non-acceptability of this Strategy because it exceeds the jurisdiction of the state level and that the ministry will wait until the consultations are completed and that the law, or this Strategy, is brought to Parliament. My conclusion is that practically 2.3m euros, spent as a form of EU technical assistance to prepare this Strategy, have been wastefully thrown away because of this strategy. In fact, we are 29 already in 2013, and I do not believe that this process will ever end so that in 2015 it will come, and this document will not have any effective force, or it remains paper, it will never go into the document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14698	The word is from Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14699	I received an answer from the Office to consider complaints on the question: Why have they exceeded eight times the deadline to resolve a tender appeal that should allow digitisation, a digitalisation process in BiH? The answer is correct, however, despite this correctness I could not conclude that the deadline set out in the Regulation under which the Board of Appeal works was eight times. Since there are similar cases, I would like to say that, of course, when it comes to choosing between whether a deadline and a quality solution to a problem is necessary, of course, to choose quality. In this case, however, the quantity directly affects quality because there are certain default deadlines when it comes to the realization of the digitalisation process in BiH, and in this way these deadlines will not be successfully realised. And if, if you may, since I haven't been to the session where my representative's question was answered in the 10th session, it took a little over a year and a half to answer that question. I would like to say, I have troubled the case of a European Investment Bank loan for the reconstruction of the highways in BiH, the Federation and the RS, which was stopped in 2011, that year. So everything was absolutely fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14700	Time's up, colleague Franjičević.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14701	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14702	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14703	Let me just say, so the answer is actually visible that there was neither transparency nor a desire to rationally approach this business by the Federal Road Directorate and by the Government of the Federation of BiH...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14704	Thank you. I remind you, therefore, two minutes are a commentary for the answers received. 30 The word has an apostle Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14705	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I welcome you all. I'd like to say, first of all, that the dissatisfaction with the answers I've received, not just because I've received such answers, but because those answers don't give me the assurance that official institutions are doing everything that should be the right thing to do. And that is, I asked the question – What does the competent institutions at the level of the state, entities, cantons make the number of BiH citizens who want to be treated, or cannot be treated in BiH, and to expect operations abroad, I was interested in the number, which is, do they have these data and what kind of diseases are they? However, from the answer I received I concluded that definitely only two cantons in the Federation of Unsko-Sanski and Zeničko-Dobojski invest, the Zeničko-dobojski 150 thousand marks for these purposes, hence support for patients, and 30 thousand marks of the Unsko-San canton. All others and entities, i.e. in RS, practically invest nothing in this regard, while the other cantons also said they had no information, that they didn't even know who was suffering. My wish was that, in all the media, in all the forms of witnesses that people are looking for 100,000, 200 thousand, 500 thousand euros, we are also witnessing that people are going after, I don't know, in the white world looking for operations and eventually report that instead of their kidneys they've operated on their liver or I don't know, certain organs are being isolated, eventually people are dying, etc. However, this concerns me because in this process, i.e. the fund-raising process includes local communities and humanitarian organisations, individuals, along with some recipes of some specialists who worry me about where this is going all the way together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14706	Thank you. The word has Ismet Dervoz's emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14707	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the answer I received from the Board of Appeals, is on the trail of issues previously elaborated by counterpart Franjičević, and I will only say that the purpose of my question was precisely to potentiate the extent to which such unnecessary and long, long-term examinations of certain complaints and the work of the Board of Appeals question all those deadlines that BiH has committed to in the digitalisation process, switching from analogue to digital broadcasting. What was obviously the most important thing to say from this answer, because everything else was in the realm of what we all already know, is that the Board of Appeal has over 10,000 objects in the work, has insufficient staff, financial resources and space for its work. The Office also points out that the number of complaints received in 2012 in public 31 procurement procedures is significantly higher than the number of complaints received by similar authorities in the countries of the region, noting that they have more permanent employees than the number of 17 employed in the Appeal Office. So, the Office could indeed work on capacitating itself unless it is able to respond to all the requirements that are in the work description, and I would also suggest to Mr Pilav that, in his address to MPs and MPs, he nevertheless behaves in accordance with his natively sensitive language, so that he does not answer that the question was asked by MP Ismet Dervoz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14708	Thank you. A comment on the response received has also been given by MP Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14709	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I would ask for the opportunity to comment at the next session on the response I received from the competent cantonal ministry of the UN-San canton regarding the quality of water in the Municipality of Velika Kladhua.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14710	Any option provided for by the Rules of Procedure will be allowed to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14711	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14712	Thank you. Dear Representative Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14713	The Honorable Chairman. I will comment on these answers that I have received regarding the state of regulation of medical waste issues and on some other questions that I have asked earlier. I can only convey a certain kind of impression, which is that the approach to writing answers shows actually the responsibility of the competent institutions to address this important issue. I am very disappointed with the overall situation when it comes to some institutions that don't even do anything to try to solve this issue at all. Aware of the fact that there are many other issues that are top priority in BiH, especially when it comes to real economy, but I was appalled by all the measures, procedures, actions taken to resolve the issue in at least a very good way in BiH. The situation is alarming, and I assume that the institutions that at least had the opportunity to consider this issue will be distracted, to pay far more attention to this issue. 32 Of course, when I complete the material, I will continue to do as I shall estimate that it is possible in this area, to launch certain activities with competent institutions at the level of the authorities in charge of these issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14714	Thank you. This concludes point (a) Comments on the answers received. And we move on to, b) New Agents' Questions Honorable representative Denis Bećirović, vice-president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14716	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I have two parliamentary questions that I will deliver in writing and one initiative that I will explain as soon as possible. Namely, I am launching an initiative that requires the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to oblige the BiH Council of Ministers to open a bid for the scholarship of 1,000 top BiH students by the end of 2013. Therefore, I suggest that they be students with the best average of both Bosnian Herzegovina entities. And in light of this initiative as possible sources of funding for such an initiative, I have proposed that, as a possible, the reduction of the reception of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, members of the BiH Presidency, ministers and deputies at the BiH Council of Ministers, directors of state agencies, as well as in other ways that all funds can be saved. I also did not rule out the possibility of getting certain funds for this purpose from donations from friendly countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14717	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14718	Thank you, Chairman. My question was addressed to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. On Friday (April 5th), on the internet portal, which mainly publishes news from the Brcko District area, four audio recordings of listening phone conversations were published by former Mayor Dragan Paić and the president of the Basic Court in Brcko District. The Brcko District Criminal Procedure Act stipulates that listening to the prosecution's request is approved by the judge for the previous proceedings, and is carried out by police who, at the end of the surveillance hearing, submits the report to the prosecution with all the information. 33 So, the fono records of listening conversations were copied and delivered to journalists by just the ones in charge of their protection and legal use. It is clear that the officials did so and that this act is a criminal offence. And in short, I am interested – Has the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council taken any steps to publish the incriminating footage available to the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice in Brcko and has the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council ever controlled the procedure for conducting specific investigations, the process of destroying materials obtained by conducting specific investigative actions and informing the person of the actions taken under the Criminal Procedure Act, and if the control is carried out, what are its results? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14719	Thank you. Honorable representative Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14720	Let me say hello. So, the issue is addressed to the BiH Statistics Agency and the BiH Council of Ministers. It is about the Law on the List of Populations, Apartments and Households in BiH, which states that the main centre for the processing of ballots is located in eastern Sarajevo. Since there is less than 6 months left to keep the list, the question is – Have the preparations for the job started and whether the location and the infrastructure are provided, unless the ticket processing centre in East Sarajevo is prepared in time, will the list be postponed again, or will the processing of the lists be done at another location, which would violate the Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14721	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14722	Thank you. I have two initiatives and five questions to the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Since I had previously set up initiatives, or sought out what happened to the strategy, what about politics, what about action plans in this area, and that the Ministry has not answered me, at this point I am asking them questions specifically, individually for each individual area. 1. What does the Ministry do to accept and ratify maritime transport conventions such as the SOLAS Convention, MARPOL, STCW and similar to that of BiH as the legal successor of the Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS)? 2. When can it be expected to complete the Sava River Rehabilitation Project including the Demining Project on its right bank? (Considering the World Bank's approved funds)? 34 3. At what stage is the establishment of an agency at the national level for the implementation of RSIA, RSA and RSI Directives, as well as the construction of those regulations? 4. When is it intended to access the electrification of the Doboj-Tuzla-Zvornik railway line, as well as the Brcko-Banovici lines, and according to the studies made? 5. Are there economic indicators of the justification of dislocating roof aviation authorities such as BH DCA and BH ANSA from the capital? And as for the Council of Ministers' initiative, given that in the first two months of 2013, imports to BiH are higher by 10.8% or about 900 million marks, with only imports of food products higher by 15.6%, as well as imports of base metals whose imports are higher by 11%, I recommend that the BiH Council of Ministers take appropriate measures to protect domestic production, as the trend of import goods will increase significantly over the next three months, as well as this year, unless appropriate measures are taken. Another initiative – That the Council of Ministers, together with the Ministry of Finance, assists the IGI as an agency, additional funding for investment guarantees and work abroad, above all for large business entities such as "Energoinvest", "Hidrogradnja" etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14723	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14724	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Defense, so the first question is: 1. When will the Ministry of Defence answer my parliamentary question at the 28th session of the House of Representatives, of 24.05.2012? 2. When will the Ministry of Defence answer my parliamentary question from the 37th session of 06.12.2012? And at the end of three. What is the Ministry currently doing to address the surplus of mobile military property and are the Commission's conclusions and proposals for implementing the process of resolving surplus mobile military assets since 22.02.2013? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14725	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14726	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. 35 I direct one initiative, and it's about setting up an IPARD payment system. Although I didn't get the answer at the 41st session, and it's the same for the IPARD payment system, and based on information from the entity agriculture ministries, when it comes to the IPARD payment system, I have no movement there, unfortunately. That is, the Council of Ministers continues to insist on the three paying agencies model and even seems to be at the expense that EU funds do not even receive, and the model is unacceptable to the EU. Now, we can already say that because of this passivity, we lost several dozen million euros and that is why I am launching the initiative – To hold the meeting of the BiH Council of Ministers' chairmans as soon as possible with the entity prime ministers and prime ministers of the Brcko District, the resolution ministers, on this subject, and to report to this House on the meeting and its results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14727	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14728	I have two questions, actually they have one kind of incentive for those I ask questions, to do some things. So, the first question is for the Council of Ministers – do you intend to respond urgently to the BiH Ombudsman Institution's initiative to amend the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH, and in line with the requirements and recommendations of the Sub-Committee for accreditation of the International Co-ordination Committee of the National Institutions for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights? The reasons are given in the initiative. The second question is for the Presidency and the Council of Ministers – Why has the BiH Presidency not brought the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform to BiH for the third year? It is, in particular, a legal obligation to whom it is, whether it is up to the Council of Ministers to be a processor and to propose this document or to the Presidency which the document is possibly there and does not bring it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14729	Thank you. Dear Representative Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14730	Thank you. My first question was actually addressed to BiH and the BiH Council of Ministers. Namely, a series of articles were published in the press, one of them was published in the magazine Euro Blic, which claims that the courts in the Federation of BiH at the request of the BiH Attorney's Office have registered four 36 military locations in the state of BiH, in Cazin, Velika Kladuma, Mostar and Tešnja, and I am interested in – what locations are specific and for what purposes are these assets used today? My second question is to the government of the UN-Sancanton, a trail of information that the U.S. government has formed KOR or the Co-ordination Committee for Development with specific tasks and objectives in order to prevent negative economic effects. I am asked to answer the following questions – Who are members of the Co-ordination Committee, how are they selected and are all municipalities of Unsko-San canton in the same representation and how? Are members of the Committee paid for their work and how much money has been spent for these purposes so far? What are the concrete results of the Committee's work, and what is therefore the final deadline for the completion of the work? Both the third and last question is for the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH and reads – Is it a violation of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14731	Thank you. Dear representative Nermina, the esteemed representative of Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14732	... So I ask the Secretary of the House to inform the club secretaries to secure the quorum. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14733	I thank the honourable representative for this business intervention. I, to put it that way, I could say from the eye that we don't have a quorum and I'm giving a five-minute break, but we're not moving away, trying to secure the quorum. [[PAUZA]] Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we have a quorum, we can continue to work. The next is Honorable Representative Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14735	Nermina
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14736	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14737	Nermina was, so her system... 37
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14738	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic was next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14739	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I welcome you all. I have, can you please talk later, I'd like to ask two sets of parliamentary questions. First, to ask the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council questions – How many court proceedings have been initiated regarding corruption in the last 5 years? How many court proceedings have resulted in a liberating verdict, and how much condemning during that period? How much of the procedures are out of date and have elements of corruption over the past 5 years and how much damage has been done to BiH by corrupting activities in the last 5 years, and what are the consequences of the outdated cases? And the second set of questions I ask the Council of Ministers – How many Austrian trade loans have been granted over the last 10 years? Which institutions are the beneficiaries of the assets of the credit and in what amount? How much is the total debt based on these loans? Did the loan start, who pays off the loans, and for which institutions they use it? And has the price of the goods obtained on the basis of the credit, if so, been analysed when sending the procedure to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14740	Thank you. Dear Representative Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14741	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two parliamentary questions, and I will, of course, deliver them both in writing. I'll explain each other very briefly. It is the first bit related to Mr Bećirović in a sense, and it is related to one of the old parliamentary issues about the way BiH is educated. In fact, this is about the following,... young and talented people who today want to graduate from colleges and universities coming into a very awkward situation because they slowly introduced an elitist performance at universities and universities, where access to a huge number of ordinary citizens who train their children is limited by the inability to simply pay for high contributions to further education. A particularly sensitive case is in the part where young men and girls who finish colleges practically with an average score of 10 go to the master's, after the master's degree, of course, want to doctorate and spend so enormously climbing that they simply don't have the opportunity. Niko one is considering keeping extremely talented children in BiH and, of course, they get offers from abroad and such brains and how they need this country simply leave the country forever. In that sense my question was referred to. 38 The second question is about a phenomenon that has quietly missed the public, so I am particularly interested in the media dealing with investigative journalism, that they have failed to do so. These elders know that ex Yugoslavia used to be the best, best-quality and most famous bank they've ever taken from, it's the famous Post Office and Savings Bank. Why? Because she had the largest number of branches in the entire ex-Yugoslavia, bigger than all the other banks combined. Every post office was a branch. After the storm that has been fighting our country, it has remained in the Federation, and I believe the RS, perhaps these, my colleagues, they know better than I do, but I know about the Federation, the rest is the Post Office Bank. The attempt to capitalise on the bank went to the staff's expense, I know it directly, because on two occasions they had to pay between one and three average salaries in the post office, so two times at a time, to capitalize the Post Office and retain BH mail. The process has stopped and instead of those banks that have ruined the banking system in BiH, you know very well, to keep these banks, because don't forget the BH bank that has mail has branches in every BiH city. Someone's not answering that, that bank's destroying itself. According to the informal information that I have, some unknown agency or company from Amsterdam has succeeded, I'm sorry, I'm speaking on my own, because I don't know why I'm asking the question, to privatise a silent postal bank with a 57% stake in power. If that's the case, it's an embarrassment to all of us. That's why my parliamentary question was asked and addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14742	Thank you. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14743	I thank the chairman. Namely, the BiH Foreign Ministry has formed a Commission that is working on the draft law on foreign affairs, the deadline for making it is 3 months, and then the draft law will be sent to the BiH presidency. The following three questions come from this finding. 1. When has the Commission been formed, and since when is it running to set a period of 3 months? 2. Who are the members of the Bill Draft Commission? 3. And when can we expect to mention the bill to come into parliamentary procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14744	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević. Here you go. __________(?) He's not here. He's not present. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14746	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I have one parliamentary question addressed to the Federal Ministry of Health and the Cantonal Health Ministry of the Zenic-Doboy Canton. As the public's less known area of the Kakanj municipality is, it belongs to the category of most polluted places probably in Europe not only in BiH, not to say and beyond, which certainly has a significant impact on people's health, so among the many types of diseases that occur as a result of such a condition, we have a significant number of dialysis patients. Unfortunately, although many villages in BiH, as I say, have dialysis centers which allow these patients to have easier access to these dialysis centers in Kaknje, it was even started to work a year ago, but for unknown reasons the construction of this dialysis centre has been suspended. Apparently, apparently, due to a lack of funds. In this respect, do you plan what you do to start the construction and equipment of a dialysis centre in the House of Health Kakanj continue and finish and, if you plan to, what do you plan and when to ensure that the missing financial resources are ensured? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14747	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14748	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, can we ask the questions of the Office of the High Representative? So if, if it is allowed and if there is no Centre of Civil Initiatives to register these issues, but someone will ask a line there after a series of inappropriate statements, my question is – Why is the Office of the High Representative inappropriately mixed in the work of religious communities in BiH? I don't think I should particularly explain it, and I think everyone knows what I mean, that in addition to a series of gaffes made by a high representative and problems in this country, I don't think he needs any additional, inappropriate interference in the work of religious communities that work and should work in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14749	Dear Representative Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14750	Since I'm too late, I'm still going to turn this matter over in writing. Thank you. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14751	Chairman, dear colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14752	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer this question to the Council of Ministers, the State Border Police and the Directorate for Direct Taxation and the other agencies in charge of this matter and ask for a written answer. Namely, is there a question – Is there a State Border Police and Directorate for indirect taxation of the necessary legal, human and material capacity to carry out its tasks professionally and effectively at the border with the Republic of Croatia, or on 01 July 2013 at the border with the EU? Since 01.07.2013, the border with the Republic of Croatia has become the border between BiH and the EU, which will have a significant impact on the regime of movement of goods, services and persons across the state border of BiH. BiH has the longest border with the 987km Republic of Croatia with 30 international border crossings and 25 border crossings for border traffic. Already, border controls from Croatia have become more stringent towards passengers, and the new control regime certainly requires both the State Border Police and the Directorate for indirect taxation and other agencies of new and additional activities. Accordingly, this question – Can state agencies effectively implement their obligations in physical and financial and other spheres in the interests of the state and its citizens, as well as citizens of other countries coming to BiH, and control borders and prevent illegal and criminal activities? Just to add a few sentences, so from some information, I have a notice that it would take hundreds of new workers to receive, that all the legal legitimate basis is not provided, so if it isn't, I'd be happy to, and if it is, then we still have time to make it right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14753	Thank you. Next came a distinguished colleague, Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14754	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. My parliamentary question is, I refer to the Council of Ministers, so let them determine who will give the answer. Between 2009 and 2012, around 340,000 fines were imposed in BiH on the basis of 17.3m marks. Only 3.2 million are charged and only those who have a BiH-level residence. Is it possible that when a camera shoots you, you can leave a state without fulfilling your obligations? Thank you very much. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14755	Thank you. We are no longer registered, I am concluding item 2 of the agenda of the Representative's Affairs. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of Deposits in Banks of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the haste procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure On 11 April 2013, the BiH Council of Ministers submitted to the procedure this Proposal for a Law requiring a preliminary review pursuant to Article 127. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a motion hearing. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14757	Mr. Chairman. So it's about an important law, important changes proposed by emergency procedure. I'd say if there was someone here in front of the promoter to tell us what the urgency of this procedure is, because from what's written as an explanation, it's not enough and it's actually pointing to the fundamental changes here. Why now is it going to be that from the legal determination of a minimum or maximum goes to that of the Governing Board, and then the expansion of the circle from the physical to these legal persons. So let's see what this is about with the International Monetary Fund so that we can determine ourselves against that procedure at all, and then, of course, about the essence of the law. So I'd like to ask if anyone here is present to go out for a pay phone and say a few sentences, it's a matter that's highly professional and should try to understand. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14758	The discussion was answered by the chairman, dear colleague Božo Ljubić, and I do not see anyone signaling from those present, that he wants to report on this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14759	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So before, therefore, putting this point on the agenda, I have, as far as possible, been informed about this Law, of course as I have read the rest of my colleagues' reasoning, and in any case I have come to the conclusion that we can support this urgent procedure because it is not about the extensive law, and the reasons, so as I understand them, concern in any case further harmonisation of this matter with the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which includes guarantees of deposits and legal persons, so also legal persons. 42 Of course, this will probably or certainly involve increasing the potential obligations of the Agency itself and in financial terms. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For me there is only one question here, of course I would also like to hear it as an answer as well as a colleague Džaferović, and it refers to Articles 10 and 15 and 16. which treats the category of extraordinary premium, here in the Law, for missing funds. And its introduction by the Agency's Management Board raises the question – will these funds, which would treat extraordinary premiums, in any way collect bank services and will they be bigger for the economy and the population? So these are certainly issues that, but I believe that these issues have been considered and that the Agency's Management Board and the Proposer had that in mind. So, no matter what this is, I'm going to support both the speedy procedure and this law. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14760	I'm not, or I won't support an emergency request for the following reasons. Look at the accompanying act, and you will see that the Council of Ministers established this Law in 2603 and that it came to Parliament on 11 April. So he was in the Council of Ministers for 15 days, and it is a request for an emergency procedure and is expected to do so immediately. This is already standard practice and this speaks about the Council of Ministers' relationship with this Parliament. Also the fact itself, so when an emergency procedure is applied, which is not technical, but conceptual, and yet it is not a simple law, it is 20 members and so on, the least the proposer has to do is here to explain, to defend, and so on. So, and the reasons that are mentioned there, I as much as could conclude that this could happen, other than what Mr. Ljubić is talking about, agreeing, etc., that it is also about meeting the terms of the International Monetary Fund. So it's already slowly moving into practice that the IMF is a code for unconditional acceptance of the solution and so on. And this reason which has been stated to reflect the role and importance of the Agency, 11-12 years after the adoption of the law, if we have not seen the role and importance of this Agency, we will certainly not see it today. So all together, especially when I don't think anything can change, because as far as I can tell there's a consensus on this parliamentary majority, but here's what I'm about to say is what I find unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14761	Thank you. I would ask a representative of the Council of Ministers, if there are opportunities, to ensure the presence of responsible persons on behalf of the promoter, but we continue the debate, of course. Dear Representative Anto Domazet. Here you go. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14762	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to have a representative of the Council of Ministers give an explanation of certain items on which the amendments to the Deposit Insurance Act are based. But I must say that the materials provided provide a very good explanation for the changes that are proposed. It is quite thorough and by complicating the old law with the proposed amendments, there can be conclusions in which these changes are made. I would say that the need to amend this Act is conditioned by changes in, above all, the international capital market, changes that are conditioned by the global economic and financial crisis, and it certainly in a certain way affects the Deposit Insurance Agency as an institution at the level of BiH guaranteeing the payment of deposits to a certain level, the current level is 35,000 marks per deposit, i.e. the deposit, or the person holding the deposits. I think that we can say, this is in some way a reference to the remark made by my colleague Belkić, that the Deposit Insurance Agency established in 2001 showed extraordinary results in its work, and as an illustration of that, I would say that deposits from 1.4 billion marks in 2001 were raised to 6.7 billion, i.e. They increased 4.8 times in a period during which the gross domestic product was increased by 1.8 times. So, the tendency to save is increased, of course not only because of the deposit guarantee but also because of other changes, but the role of the Deposit Insurance Agency here was undoubtedly very important. The changes that are proposed seem very complex at first sight, but they can essentially be aware of 4 major changes, which is the first strengthening of the role of the Management Board. Instead of legal regulation, many things are transferred to the responsibility of the Management Board, the level of the secured deposit, the amount of premium, the extraordinary premiums, membership fees, etc. Secondly, new bank obligations are being established, first of all, around this extraordinary premium and secondly, annual membership fees. So the banks that are members of this deposit insurance system should now pay membership fees, regular membership fees annually, and that will certainly affect their costs. Third, a more efficient process is being introduced to settle secured deposits. And finally, the security of the legal person's deposit is being introduced. So we could see from the explanation that many of these things are consistent with the IMF. So, the IMF fama as an imperative for change, should be quite relativized here. Secondly, there is KFV, and as one of the significant donors still, other donors who participate with their roles in the insurance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. So, I can also say on behalf of the SDP Club that we will accept both the urgent procedure and the proposed changes, with the belief that the amendments to the Act will further strengthen the position of the Deposit Insurance Agency, improve the management of that agency and make the deposit insurance system even more stable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14763	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14764	Mr. Chairman. I don't think we have the conditions until we hear from the Council of Ministers to come forward, about the procedure or the essence. And that's why I'm trying to give some kind of a response to my colleagues' exposure to Domazet. Be careful, I think, when you look at this text of the Law, you take only Article 18 and see its position 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 – the Agency can impose a fine from 1,000 Marks to 100,000 Marks on the bank if within the time limit set by the Agency does not deliver a recovery plan and so on. So, the accent is on this, the Agency can impose a fine from 1,000 to 100,000 banks through the Commission for Infringements. This is not a termology used in our laws. It's written, he'll be punished for the offense by the fine, and he'll be the one who's the one who's gonna be the one who's gonna be the one who's gonna be the one who's gonna be the one who's gonna be the one who's gonna be the one who's gonna be the one who's gonna be the one who's gonna be the Here the Commission, or the Agency, is thinking about the Deposit Insurance Agency, I think this is a thing that can't stand like this in law, so I need someone to see, to talk to people, I think if there's enough arguments, I know this is an important thing, we'll back it up, but if it isn't, we'll be against that procedure, and we'll go into a shortened procedure and then we'll fix it with amendments. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14765	Thank you. Dear Representative Nermin Purić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14766	I thank the chairman. I also have certain dilemmas when it comes to this draft law on amendments and additions to the deposit insurance law in BiH banks. I do not think that any of us here is asking whether the Deposit Insurance Agency should strengthen and whether legal regulation should be strengthened in this area, but it seems to me that these proposed amendments and additions of the Law go a little wider than that of the reasons set out in this accompanying act and therefore I am on the backdrop of those fellow MPs who think that we should still slow down with the debate on this Law, especially when we talk about an emergency procedure, because how important and urgent the procedure shows, therefore, the fact that none of the proposings are here today to explain or to answer certain questions that may not change the essence, or which would be a problem that this Law is going in an emergency procedure. I, too, will not support an emergency procedure request, and I believe that this law could normally be considered by a reduced procedure, and I believe that we would have enough time and enough opportunity to clarify the dilemmas that we have in relation to the proposal for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14767	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović. Here you go. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14768	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. Here, not to repeat myself in the part of the discussions that were before me, I just want to point out here once again that the SDA Club won't support this law by emergency procedure. And I want to warn my colleagues here, if they haven't noticed it by now, that lately or a few months ago, we are increasingly in parliamentary procedure having laws under emergency procedure. Here I am asking myself and myself here and the Council of Ministers, normally as a proposing, why are MPs excluded from the law-making process in the sense that certain members of the law can intervene unless they agree with the same? Here's not to list all the laws, you'll remember if you do one brief analysis of all of what we've been doing in the last few months. We do not have a law that will go through a parliamentary procedure, through committees in a brief or normal procedure where we MPs could respond adequately if we do not agree with some things. Here, once again, means in terms of suggestion or, let's not say a more difficult word to the Council of Ministers to still respect this Parliament, to bring the procedural laws in the way that it is provided for by the Rules of Procedure, so that we may have some common participation, not that this is how laws come to us by emergency procedure, and that we MPs just raise our hands or not raise our hands, remain unarranged, we do not have the opportunity to influence the essence of these legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14769	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14770	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Fellow representatives, guests. Well, look, today, in the very opening of this session, we have discussed the way Parliament works, or how some of us are unfoundedly taking action, and often without arguments. I am one of those who likes to respect the dignity of this Parliament and respect the methods of work itself, which is when a certain law passes and gets the green light from its committees, then we MPs should not in fact spend much of our time in these discussions, but simply by respecting colleagues or mutual respect, is it, by carrying out procedures to trust that we are going forward. We have an emergency procedure today, so we've ruled out this parliamentary procedure, a very important law, and here I am as a man who works a lot in the area, and I'm happy to read and surely the law brings a lot of improvements, and I would absolutely like to support both of the changes that are in the law, but there is still something that has a dose of bile, one that should really explain that this hastily procedure is not there today and then deny all of my good will and desire to justify, that this is going on and on the hasty procedure and to accept these changes. What I especially like about it here is that we're giving the board of directors a raise, and I think that's how it's supposed to be done, but he's got his own responsibility. And I'll just remind you that on board 46, the governor of the Central Bank, the finance ministers, and then I think that if we've already elected them, this Parliament has chosen, then why not give confidence that through one operationality, through this law we come to efficiency and a better system. And of course, what I don't like when something's easy to say isn't going to cost much, of course, if you're introducing rights or potentially something you need to ensure, that it has to cost. Therefore, there must be additional resources to ensure possible deposits for payment, i.e. guarantees that must be made. But that's probably what someone did well, so that's what he suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14771	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14772	I thank the chairman. I welcome everyone. I would just suggest that this, if at least someone turns up as a proposing and explains these questions to the individuals who appear here, that their argument, because I think absolutely at this point we can only answer each other or so to say that one MP gives an explanation or an opinion to another MP. I absolutely wouldn't accept it today, but I wouldn't accept it for the future if the proposings weren't there and they didn't make their comment on any bill, especially when it comes to an emergency procedure. For this reason, I propose that the proposer appear in the next period, whether it is after lunch, in an hour or at any time, to give its argument, because this is how we will certainly, out of the disregard of Parliament, cause a bile where we will then vote against an emergency procedure. If this is and if this session can be given an explanation and a particular direction today, then it is certainly appropriate for MPs to get what they are looking for, at least, oral response, if they have not already had the opportunity to inform themselves enough about this and give one of their quality opinions as experts in every club, and not now that I am here as MPs who, where I don't know much about the economy, I have to admit that absolutely this is an area that isn't in my domain, that I am now pleading for an urgent procedure on something that I don't have enough information about at this point. And once again, I propose only, if the Proposer can, or if Parliament adopts, that this point be moved by maybe after lunch and that the Proposer should answer these answers, or questions of his own, and that we should then identify ourselves in what way we will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14773	Thank you. We have three ways to get out of this position, one of the MPs is to propose that we suspend the debate when there are no proposings, it's a business possibility. The second is that someone take a break so we can wait, because I know that a proposaler and someone are invited to come. And the third is to go over this part of the agenda to move on and in the meantime wait for the promoter to come, if you agree, declaratively with it, if we don't, then we'll look for a break from business opportunities and wait for someone to come. 47 But here is a distinguished colleague, Dušanka Majkić, still around this part of the agenda, and I will not conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14774	I'm not going to comment, I'm just saying, it's probably all known that because of an accident in the family the finance minister was absent and probably not coming, he can't turn around. So it's left to us to have two options or to accept that what's written stands here, or to change instead of an emergency procedure to go on short notice. So there's no other, so obviously we won't have anyone to, he's been working on it so maybe he'll get ready, but maybe he won't be able to answer all the questions. So, don't insist, you can respect or disrespect this, Mr. Belkić. So we only have those two options that we can and there's no third.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14775	Thank you. I was present when the Assistant Minister of Finance, we all know what happened, on several occasions defended, uh, if they decide to come and let us know they're not able to defend without a minister, we'll decide that way, but I'd give it 14:00 hours, when we're taking a break, to give them the opportunity to come and inform us about this bill, and we'll move on to the next item of the agenda. Do you agree? _________(?) We agree. Thank you. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency – Proposer: MPs Dušanka Majkić, Beriz Belkić and Niko Lozančić
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14778	Mr. Chairman. From the first reading to today, which through public debate and besides, has been removed by amendments adopted on the Constitutional Commission, all dilemmas related to this Law that were passed during the first reading. One of the most important things is the disagreement, i.e. the warnings we received from the European Commission regarding individual solutions from the original text of the Law. It's perfectly consistent. The Constitutional Commission had three groups of amendments and 8 amendments were adopted. The amendments were practically more or less unanimously adopted and the Commission's report was adopted, so that these concerns are no longer present. And I, as chairman of the Commission, on behalf of the Commission, recommend that the House adopt this Act in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14779	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. I received information from the service that the Assistant Minister of Finance will be here within half an hour to inform us about point 3. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, displaced persons and returnees – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH At the 46th session of the House, held on 28.03., a report by the competent Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics was not accepted. The Joint Committee shall be in accordance with Article 112(3). The Rules of Procedure are in charge of making a new report. The new report was delivered in 1704 in the name of 5 amendments. Aleksandra Pandurević and Beriz Belkić are in accordance with Article 118(2). The rules of procedure, which shall be submitted to the Commission by amendments which defend the plenary phase after they have not been successfully defended in the Commission. And it is the honourable MP Pandurević 6 amendments and the honourable MEP Belkić one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14781	A number of amendments that I have submitted have been adopted on the Commission, and I am pleased that this is the case. However, the key amendments that have shown my conceptual disagreement with the proposed law have not been adopted and I have repeated them. I remain with the overall situation in which the country is located and this population requires priority of our efforts and financial capacities, etc. should be primarily focused on returning, respecting, absolutely 49, respecting the right to two other alternatives, therefore both compensation and choice of second place of residence. So there's still so much interest in coming back, and we still have a responsibility to aneks vi to deal with our return as a matter of priority. Unfortunately, the amendment was not accepted by the Commission and I reiterated it. And secondly, by this amendment, I'm trying to make a kind of security in providing funding for this law through a commitment, by seriousising that provision that says that local communities are obliged to allocate certain funds. And I have suggested by amendment that those who do not stand out cannot count on their projects, that they simply show by their separation the seriousness of this matter. So here's the conclusion, I, if these two amendments are not accepted, I will not, of course, support this law. And I find one small, so to speak, a dilemma in this Commission report – when it comes to the results of the vote it is said that it has been adopted etc., but a number of votes, there the note stands, it says – conditional consent, so I already know what that means. Therefore, simply the Commission should, in the Commission's report, stand adopted, not adopted, if there is an ambition to say how much who, as he voted, is said to be – 5 for, 3 against, etc., but there is no such conditionality. Of course, here she can show herself in relation to the ultimate, in the final vote, so. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14782	Thank you. The word has a distinguished emissary, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14783	Thank you, Chairman. I must say that I was disappointed because many of these amendments were not adopted even though the Ministry only accepted them and rated them acceptable. Although we, for example, have accepted a number of amendments to the SDA, the SDA has decided to be an opposition and yes, so we did not have that one vote on the Commission in the Bosniak People's Order that some of these amendments might be adopted. Mrs. Ćemalović, I must say, was not at that session when the amendments were discussed. Members of the Commission this time, including myself, who for the first time were abstentions, we decided to, however, because in this law there are also a lot of good things and quality, to give him a chance to come in here and try again to find a solution. And if these amendments are adopted and the adoption of these amendments depends on our support. It's particularly important to us, and we've highlighted this last time here and all our colleagues, this member of the Law that speaks of the separation of at least 2% of each budget, where neither entities nor communities have been consulted. I know that many municipalities are in big trouble and I can't do this. There are also those who can single out more than 2%. Let's say the municipalities I come from, the Bratunac municipality, we're already 2 percent single for alternative accommodations and there's no problem rerouting these funds and solving them, but there are municipalities that can't do it. The question is, can entities do that? Let them single out as much as they can, and in that sense, this amandman III.. Furthermore, the other amendments, in order not to detail, relate to the fact that many acts here through this Law are in the hands of the Minister. Not really wanting to be misunderstood, I highly appreciate 50 Minister Ljubić but I don't know if we're going to be in a position to maybe some next minister abuse his powers and bring in acts that may not, which have no best intentions. And besides all sublegal acts concerning the general good, the Council of Ministers in principle brings in principle, and in this sense, it is the correction to adopt the acts on the proposal of the Ministers' Council. Furthermore, one of the amendments says -- financial resources being implemented, projects through the fund, here with this proposal go from the ministry's budget. Now the funds of the fund are planned in the budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations, and I think it should remain that way. So our support for these amendments will depend on our support for the whole of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14784	Thank you. No more reports. We don't even have a request from the Ministry. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Declaration on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the report on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics This proposal for a law in first reading was adopted at the 42nd session of the House, held on 14.02. At the request of the respective Constitutional Legal Commission, the deadline for the delivery of the report has been extended to this session of the House. In 1704, the Commission again requested the extension of the deadline for the delivery of the report, or proposed that the House of Representatives adopt a conclusion that the legislation should be governed by the legislative procedure, to stop the legislative procedure for this proposal. In accordance with Article 111(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The rules of procedure need to be made known to the House on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the report or on the suspension of the legislative procedure. You've received a request from the Constitutional Legal Commission. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14786	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. It's a very specific situation. We need this law. This law has been discussed by the task force to combat human trafficking and it is necessary within BiH to redistribute more effectively to make more subjects more efficient, I think those who deal with this issue, I think of courts, deal more effectively with the issue of combating human trafficking. And so it's not a question at all. It is also known that BiH's criminal legislation has 4 criminal and, 4 material and 4 criminal procedural laws and that these laws must be harmonised if we want 51 to fully operate the mechanism and system. And it's not a dispute, and in this case it wouldn't be a problem either. In this case, for the first time, it happens, and that is what is specific, that certain incriminations are removed or decrimined from the Criminal Law of BiH. The group's plan also provides for these incriminations to be included in entity laws and law, the Brcko District of BiH Criminal Law. If we now decriminalise these provisions, so let's remove them from the Criminal Code and they come into force, and entities and Brcko District have not accepted the provisions that are planned for them, I'm afraid we won't make a vacuum then, and will not come to the stage of the application of Article 4, or the principle of time in force of the Criminal Law, that we will, therefore, come to the point that by our decision some perpetrators of these crimes, if we act in this way, we will set free. This has been warned by the Council of Ministers, though not explicitly in its letter when it said that entity and Brcko District laws should be adopted previously, including in them what is planned, and then decrimined from the Criminal Law of BiH. Similarly, something similar, even more precisely, stems from the BiH Court's letter. And we have decided on the Commission that, wanting to preserve this Law, deeming it necessary for BiH, not to create a problem in BiH, that this House, because we do not have these powers, is to reach a conclusion to stop the procedure while this plan, which is being led by both the Ministry of Justice and all the entities involved, therefore, does not realize that entities do not adopt these amendments, previously incriminate those provisions in their laws and the Brcko District, and then we will decriminalise it. So, this is about the following, the bottom line is -- the current criminal offence prescribes criminality for both victims and citizens of BiH and in cases where there are so-called. an international element, i.e. when there is, when victims are outside BiH. The plan is that everything that is domestic goes to the entity and Brcko District laws and that what is related to... remains in the Criminal Law of BiH. If we now rule out what is domestic, then what is at the Court of BiH can now be very problematic and we wanted to avoid this situation, so that Parliament does not produce what it should not produce. So much, in my explanation, I had to say this so we all know what this is all about, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14787	Thank you. I fully understand the problem in which the Constitutional Commission has found itself and your reasoning seems quite logical to me, but the problem of this Parliament is the introduction of a new word principle – a legislative project, which has not been used so far, does not know... I ask you if there is a reasonable time limit that we could give to the Commission and then put this law on the agenda, whether it falls, whether it passes. Is it 3 months, 6 months, but stop and adopt such a conclusion I think it's too free to interpret what we're doing here in Parliament. Here you go, dear colleague Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14788	So, as far as I'm concerned, you can and so, I'm not the kind of guy who's gonna ask to do something that's useful but that's... A Rules of Procedure or a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ...it is possible to do so to honor the Rules of Procedure. This could be the way out, what you were talking about, let Dom say it's six months' maximum. We can, and if the job is done before, come here, of course, with 52, there's no problem. You Satisfy the Rules of Procedure and honor this essence, we don't mind it being this formulation that we wrote.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14789	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14790	Well, I totally agree that, well, if it's necessary, we'll extend the deadline, I'd just like to say, just so it's clear, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has harmonised the Criminal Law of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14791	Thank you. So, I'd like to make a conclusion that will say that the deadline to six months is delayed, which would mean that it can go sooner, but it can't be later. Let's go to point seven, Ad. Seven. Declaration on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the report on the Amendments and Supplements Act before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The draft law was adopted in the first reading at the 43rd session of the House, held on 28.02.2013. In line with the conclusion of the House, the Constitutional Legal Commission held a public debate on the Proposal for a Law on 27.03, and the deadline for the delivery of the report was extended to 17.04. In 1704, the competent Commission again requested an extension of the deadline for the delivery of the report until the next meeting of the House because the BiH Justice Ministry should discuss with... interested public debate participants the possibility of a possible investment of an amendment to the law. As in the previous point, in accordance with Article 111(6). Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to make the House known on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the report or on the suspension of the legislative procedure. This request by the Constitutional Legal Commission you've received. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14793	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So it's about changes and additions to one of the three, four, three very important procedural laws that each state has, if we consider these to be criminal proceedings, administrative 53 procedures and litigation proceedings, there are more, of course, extraparnical and point, but this is, therefore, a very important law in each system and also in the Bosnian-Herzegovina system. It is about amendments and additions to the Law on Prosecution before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and of course this law should, that is, be harmonised in BiH. We have this term... because we have four litigation laws or law on litigation in BiH, two entity, Brcko District and state law. We decided to open a public debate at a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission. We referred to interested subjects, and during the public debate, we saw what right we really were, how much we guessed that we opened this public debate. So I've been having this public debate, and I've seen people from the task force who wrote the Law and people from the ministry and people from the institutions that apply this Law. And it was seen then that there are certain things that simply have to be corrected by the amendments, which are acceptable for all of us here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House and which are not at all problematic, that I would not now be listing certain things, so I can also list them, some of them are termological, in one place the termology for this kind of law is used. We agreed then, after a public debate, it is 15 days to submit the amendments, that the Ministry of Justice, and they have accepted along with the group that wrote the law, and with the other subjects try to define the amendments. I have my 10, 15 amendments to that law. And since the Justice Department didn't end it until the Commission's session that was closed, we had to ask the House to give us a new deadline until the next session. You will receive a report by next session, whether the Justice Department has done the job or not, and we will be clear about all amendments. So we can just get to quality, we can't lose anything. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14794	Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14795	All this is true what Mr. Džaferović was saying, however, there is one practical thing, so I repeat, at the disadvantage and responsibility. The 15-day deadline is up. I'm not sure that anyone moved anything special, and I'm afraid that in a month, two days, everything was great in theoretically, in this public debate I was also, etc., it was wonderful to hear it, but when something was to be done and on time and deadlines respected – there is no. So, I warn, when setting that deadline, that the deadline one has already expired. We are serious people, if this is how this Parliament will be treated and we are constantly continuing, stopping, standing, standing, I will vote against it first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14796	Thank you. We have made arguments for and against, and the proposal will be on vote to extend the deadline until the next session and then can be determined accordingly. I think I've explained enough. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point eight, 54 Ad. 8. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to Reach Consent on Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint Defence and Security Commission for BiH Last session of the House did not require an entity majority when voting on this proposal for a law in a second reading. The college as a commission has failed to achieve consent. You got the report. There's no discussion about the report. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a law on liability for nuclear damage – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14800	So this is a practical report on the work of the audit office. And I am sure that because of the many hours of Parliament's commitment to the work of the Office, that is, the BiH institution is considering financial reports and impact reports, it deserves to be said a few words about it. 55 First, according to the Audit Office, in 2012, a total of 73 audits of which 71 audits, annual audits of financial reports and one consolidated report were carried out, so the report on the implementation of the budget and two impact audits. So, it is clear that this report is still, as it has so far, primarily related to the financial audit. That the impact review is still a stepdaughter within the audit office is evident. I remember that the 2012 audit office's 2012 work plan said 6 impact audits would be carried out. Here, we have two. My question would have been because the issue would have been immediately troubled by the Office when it comes to someone else, another BiH institution, is that bad planning? Did the Office for Audit plan badly, so instead of 6 she completed only two and why 4 impact audits, which are very important to us and give us a lot of data on the situation in BiH institutions, are not finished? It's a very important thing. But since I see here that there is a representative of the audit but not responsible people from, neither the auditor general nor his two deputies are present, it will deny you all the answers we have. Also, what is so far the Office for Audit has consciously avoided the issue of amending the Law on Audit. I would remind you that the Revision Act was passed in 2006, that also because of a large number of amendments, which have disrupted many things, as well as the lack of experience we had at the time, this Law has become unadjusted both in time and in the way and in the results of work so far. This means that changes to the Law on Audit should be prepared urgently, and this means that we should first bring it into line with the experience of the previous 8 years, which is based on co-operation, good co-operation between the Office for Audit and the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. its Joint Commission, or the Commission for Finance and Budget. Another reason, in the meantime, is that it has put an end to the adoption of new standards. I primarily think of these standards from the ISSAI Group which, in addition to financial audits and impact audits, which we already know, recognize and revise compliance. This revision will give a large part of the answer to all the questions that we have been asking here for years, which is partly done through financial reports, but not so that it can adequately tell us what the compliance of certain key laws is and what responsibility it is related to. So that revision should give us all the answers we've been looking for here for years. Accordingly, I suggest two conclusions. I think, on the basis of what I said, that the House of Representatives would ask the Office for Audit to consider the possibility to amend and supplement by 30.06.2013 in the parliamentary procedure of amending and supplementing the Law on Audit, which will comply with the new standards and credentials in the work so far. That's one. Another – The House of Representatives asks the Commission for Finance and Budget to consider with the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions the possibility of reducing the number of annual financial audits, which is thus carried out each year, thus liberating capacity to introduce a larger number of impact audits and audits of compliance. Without this, it is not possible to achieve, that is, simply the capacity currently owned by the Office for Auditing is not enough for greater engagement on impact audits and, in particular, to prepare for this new audit – the revision of compliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14801	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14802	I will very briefly, therefore, support this report, especially bearing in mind the fact that, as the report says, a media presentation has also been organised through a press conference and that the report is well media-accompanied and well-rated in public. So, Parliament today just needs to verify that, is it? I welcome the increasingly frequent review of the effects which, of course, is now not done, which can be excellently used to determine further directions of action, etc. as one analytical material. It's also encouraging, if that's true, but it would be good to express it a little bit with percentages and so on. that your recommendations are taken seriously and implemented. If we had any information as to how much of the reports you're delivering to the D.A. was the basis for the launch of certain procedures, that would have made another contribution, absolutely. So, and I'm a little bit vague, you've found that there is a need to improve co-operation with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, of course, it's always a need to strive for better, but my sound was as if something wasn't exactly the best, so maybe it should explain a little bit what it is that we should still do to be in better communication. Isn't that right, Professor Domazet? Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you, thank you. And finally about the conclusion, that is, of this requirement for accommodation and so on. As far as I know, the Council of Ministers has some accommodation projects and some of the funds are separate, but I also know that a significant number of institutions are trying to solve their accommodation problem and trying to avoid these post-war situations, which are not always the happiest. It might not be bad if these interested in sitting down, talking a little bit and proposing to the Council of Ministers some sort of solution, whether it's a building, if it's some kind of location where a related institution could sit. So if we already have several institutions in eastern Sarajevo that have difficulties with accommodation and so on. and even resort to some areas that are not very suitable, because there are no offers, it would not be bad to think and that one building in East Sarajevo is built to accommodate institutions that already have headquarters, of course you are not you, but this should be discussed in general. I support the conclusions, the proposal for the conclusions of Ms. Majkić, with this in order to allow the office to analyse and assess whether amendments and additions to the law should be approached and in what direction and in which direction. And I would like to hear the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget related to this second conclusion. But in principle, I absolutely support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14804	Thank you. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14805	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, just for a moment, means as a member of the Commission I supported the report of the Office of Audit and the Club of the SDA will also support the report of the Audit Office during the vote. What's most important to point out is that when the Office of Audits is on a gradual basis, regardless of what the European space has gone beyond the financial audit and entered as a fundamental matter of an analysis of the impact of the audit, I think at this stage, at this present stage, in the stages of the development of state institutions, we had a need to give one point to this financial, financial audit and it is, in relation to the period of beginning of the audits themselves, here to this day, we have one significant financial, financial discipline. I hope, too, that in the coming period, the state institutions that received recommendations for their 2011 reports will be able to find certain solutions and address these outstanding shortcomings in their work. What's important is if they don't own institutions themselves, they only have subjective problems, they have objective problems, and here's these objective problems that have a significant impact on the reports for a long time we've tried to solve, one of these problems is the Public Procurement Act, someone mentioned it here earlier. I hope that the future Audit Office will step up its work when it comes to impact review. However, there are, therefore, certain assumptions are needed, one of them is this area necessary for the audit office and for these reasons we have identified the problem on the Commission and here in parliamentary procedure in the form of a conclusion, and I think that Parliament will have an understanding of one such conclusion, bring it and then competent, and that is the Council of Ministers, to help it, this thing is realized. Another necessary condition for the revision of the impact or revision of which Mrs. Majkić spoke earlier, which is one of the more significant intensities, is this human potential. But we always forget when we're making a budget or we're creating a budget or we're adopting it here, that the resources are needed, and here's for the Audit Office so that it can work at some full capacity. We are mostly looking at cutting budgets, this one forgets the highlighted problems earlier, and perhaps, here I say, part of us here in these parliamentary benches are partly responsible for what this institution or some other institution does not have its own space, because we have denied these funds or have not had enough employees, because we have also denied funds. Finally, I would like, once again, to point out one quality work of the Office for Auditing and Co-operation with the Commission for Finance and Budget, so I can also say with the Parliamentary Assembly some other, notably the Council of Ministers further realise certain conclusions. Here we do not have, what Mr Belkić just said earlier, we do not have a report from SIPA, the Prosecutor's Office, whether some of the activities have been taken by the latest negative audit reports, but I hope that the work of these institutions will be more serious in the future and that perhaps through the analysis of the 2012 audit reports, i.e. the summation of certain results, we will recognize some of the very important things through which we will improve the work of not only the Office for Audit, but also their, to say, segments that support them in this work, the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14806	Thank you. Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14807	The chairman, I think, is an important debate on the report on the work of the BiH Institution's Audit Office, certainly and attracting the public's attention from these discussions and the media to the importance of this important independent institution. What I can say is that, in order to be very important, given that in the discussions, it is said that changes and additions to the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions should be made until a provision is introduced in the amendments and additions to the provisions that, in the financial audit process, when an auditor encounters suspicious actions which could therefore have legal liability in terms of abuse or embezzlement, the audit service should cease to operate and supply such material to competent investigative institutions. We would thus reduce, so we introduced much greater responsibility in terms of, therefore, the investigative institutions and this, the responsibility of the prosecution to have the elements to start such investigations. We would reduce the number of financial investigations, I think we should continue the process of financial audits, so continue to make all the institutions subject to financial audits, that a much more important impact review should be strengthened, and in all these activities we would have brought, this one, to a much greater degree of responsibility and the main audit service and the institutions that are subject to review. Certainly, the process of strengthening and building internal procedures would eliminate these abuses of public funds, and I think that we are forgetting, not us, but I think the institutions should pay much more attention to the work of the internal audit service in line with the adopted law which unfortunately does not have the function it should have, therefore, financial, monitoring of budget spending procedures. In this regard, I believe that, in order for us to strengthen the work of the main audit service, while at the same time we would have a much more efficient spending of budgetary resources, this approved BiH institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14808	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14809	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'll do it very briefly and it's not the usual practice in this House to stand out, but here I am going to do it as I do all the time. I'm not gonna repeat what my colleagues said, but I'm about to step up what they said. There is rarely a name spoken here in Parliament now if someone has discussed it well, usefully, made certain suggestions, to mention its name, than everyone has a version of it, but here's how I'm going to do it. I will support my colleague Majkić's proposals, proposals for conclusions, excellent suggestions as far as I'm concerned. I'll support the discussion of Mr., the esteemed colleague of Prodanović, although I rarely do, but here I am. That someone I don't forget, colleagues Belkić, colleagues Sokolović, is there anyone else to discuss this point, colleagues Tomić, who will discuss and colleagues of Domazet who will discuss it, because I won't have the opportunity then. So, what is very important is how this institution will have credibility and seek to establish better co-operation with Parliament if you read in public that the highest salary in this 59-nation country has the Director of the Audit Office, the highest salary. And you read it in the paper and you have nothing else in any media, but I said at the first item of the agenda, look at tonight at least, from how many TVs, on three televisions are the main guests of the Centres of Civil Initiatives, NGOs of the other organization, and who we'll see. Here to call me, I'll volunteer, and I haven't been on TV in a while, so I'd like to have a discussion with them. So, I support all this stuff they said, but what credibility, I repeat, can have the office and ask for anything if that director of the office, he called himself "Slavuj, Mr. Anyway, I'm not going to mention the name that he is, he's got the highest salary. So can anyone positively look up to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is positively pointing out, affirmatively, the new prime minister is moving hard and says – the directors will have this kind of salary. Point, no more debates, no more mandates, no more vats, no more hellos. No one here has the strength in Parliament to say – if you can.... a salary from a member of the Presidency, no one will...., you can have a higher salary than a member or chair of Parliament, can you have a higher salary than the chairman of the Council of Ministers. You can't, the logic is that you can't, but where there's no logic there are these things that are out of logic, that he has the highest salary in BiH, at least from the knowledge. Although I have other knowledge, that dozens of them and hundreds have a higher salary than even him, but that I do not speak of us messengers, is that more of a phrasing phrase. So, in order for me not to owe this, I support everything that my colleagues have said and that this, this suggestion of a conclusion about, not to say, we're re-orienting instead of financial to go on an impact review, he's going to give you more information, and then we're going to be able to discuss everything and everything. And the fact that everyone's out of space, so every session's over, so I'm out of people and I'm out of space, 9 of us sits in 12 m2, hello. And I don't know maybe they need space, but if they think they need room to hire another 100 or 200 new workers, they're wrong, they need to cut the number of employees here, because we're in big trouble. I'm going to ask you next year, happiness, so it's going to take a mandate, how long is BiH in losses, what happened at border crossings, how much is the budget damaged, what about those who don't respond, and I'm calling them all the time to fill in at least this order, from these agencies that are obliged to enforce the laws, to ask them if there's any lawsuit or verdict that you've paid back the money that someone has left out of the budget unwarrantedly, that you paid 4.5 million yourself? And I asked the review to deliver that document to me so that I could take the application in private and that I wouldn't speak any further. So, there are countless problems here that need to be solved and leave this possibility as said by my colleague Majkić, to come up with changes and additions to that law, because he can work like this, any law can work in this way, but we'll always ask the question but, but, but what's the ultimate goal, will anyone answer? For everything the audit has provided, no one ever answers, period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14810	Thank you. Dear colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14811	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I think that, when we discuss this report, it should be pointed out that in the past two years in this conference, the Budget and Finance Commission has discussed the audit reports in detail, 60 in particular the audit reports which, where the audit has expressed a negative opinion or opinion with the reserve or with the emphasis on the case. At first, we haven't had much co-operation at the level at which it was supposed to work, but lately, I have to admit that we have very good quality and correct co-operation. At all and one meeting that we discussed in the Commission on Budgets and Finance, either the President or the Vice-President, or the Director of the already audit agency, was always present. So in a very correct debate, we were able to conduct both debates and that, sometimes not in front of those we were hearing, but when we were alone, we also knew to point out certain gaps, but always making sure to protect their full independence. So we told them when a year ago, when we had a report from certain institutions and ministries that got an opinion with the reserve, and by all elements we should have had a negative opinion, it gave us fruit, so that for the next year we just got negative opinions. It is a sign that even though the Office for Audits has in some way encouraged herself and taken the liberty and the right to be able to define things more freely and say how she sees it, feels it. They didn't have any problems before that they didn't know that opinion was supposed to be negative, but they were still trying to give it a chance. I think the work of the Office for Audit came in the position of creating a greater discipline at BiH level after all. I think that should be supported, it should give them a chance to, I'm not sure if it would be a good way to quickly release some of the institutions so that every year we don't do a financial audit to try to find more space and capacity to audit the impact, which I think is the most important thing in all of this. I don't know if we've come to this, but in any case, in order for institutions to review the rules of impact review to therefore need a lot of people who have already had more education, even more experience, because the impact review is not easy or easy to do. We suggested to them yesterday that we try to try a summary report that should be planned at the end of the year, to try to bring it to the ninth, tenth month, so that based on their findings that certain institutions have received negative opinions, we can react before the adoption of the budget, so that those who have broken the costs in certain parts can be given sanctions, i.e. a reduced budget for a certain percentage as provided for by the law. Once the budget is adopted, it won't mean anything more to us if we figure it out later, because when the budget is adopted, we don't have a chance to do it anymore. As far as the report is concerned, I think they're all being delivered to the D.A.'s office, they're available to everyone, now the thing is how they're going to treat it. And I personally think we should do it as soon as possible, and yesterday, we decided on the commission, that as soon as possible conditions and capacities should be created in which they can work. They do not have enough accommodation capacity, as far as expertise is concerned, they will have to work safely through the education of their people and the bringing of people who are professional and who will be able to offer us quality here. I consider the impact review extremely important and significant, but it can be done exclusively by a good opportunity-knower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14812	Replication of the letter Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14813	... a classic replica, but I'm afraid there would be no misunderstanding, this colleague, Tomić, I didn't tell him to do it, but that the Office and the Finance and Budget Committee would consider the possibility to consider reducing the number. We have institutions that have a positive opinion for five years in a row, so it's illusory to go to them, and on the other hand, we have a bunch of problems that should be solved, and no one solves. We've seen that the office is not yet qualified to audit the impact, and it's already a new audit at the door, this synchronization. I am talking about capacity building, Parliament in no way affects their financial resources, their decisions in the selection of people, the number of people, and therefore they are independent, the Finance Komsija and their budget adopts the budget. So I ask that they show good will, they have good co-operation, they have our support, they have a good will, and so I think it would be good for the Commission to sit down and discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14814	The word has an MP, Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14815	Thank you. Well, the report itself shows that progress has been made in the work of the BiH Institutions Audit Office and what the findings, i.e. the comprehensiveness of the effects they have had, which is sufficiently illustrated data. What is a special quality of co-operation and the Office and Parliament is reflected in joint activities in the implementation of co-operation procedures with, co-operation in recommendations based on findings made by the Office. I don't think that's pointed enough in the report. There has been an improved co-operation, above all, with the Commission on Finance and Budgets which has also held hearings, of course not the first case, there have been previous years, but the hearings that have led further to the relevant proposals for conclusions and recommendations. And we have a positive fitback situation, we see that, above all, I would like to point out the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees who have spent a really thorough, thorough activity on normative alignment and control, internal control of budget spending. I think that should've been pointed out in the report, and we've found that on the Commission. The second thing I would like to say about this report is about the attitudes of some colleagues who presented the need for the Office of Audit to inform the Prosecutor's Office about the findings in order to continue to follow actions, actions before the prosecutor's authorities and so on. It is very important to define the position of the Office as an institution that controls the legality and consistency of the spending of public money in BiH institutions. And she's not an authority, or an institution in a chasing chain, and it could damage the image of the Audit Office, and we shouldn't get into that trap, we have to strictly differentiate the position, the role of the Audit Office in that sense. So, based on the findings of the Audit Office, there is a documentary basis for political action, for the work of Parliament's body, parlametan itself, but of course the authorities of the prosecution, but this is not the Urda's audit initiative. In that sense, therefore, I think it would be good and I've learned it, the right to tell you, I've learned it from working with the Office and I think it's a very useful knowledge that has freed me from some delusions. I want to share it, share it with you. Otherwise, as far as my colleague Majkić's proposal is concerned, it is indeed a very important question, how to increase the share of the impact review, because they are far more quality according to their results and the recommendations they give us for further, further action and work. I think, in fact, that we should recommend 62 in addition to increasing the number of these audits, also that the Office takes more decisive action in education, profiling, specialising its personnel for impact audits. Because impact review is a far more high-quality job, so they must, especially trained and specialized experts do this compared to these regular audits. I think they have a shortage in this regard, they have insufficient capacity for these impact audits, and therefore, there should also be involved in co-operation with these organisations providing technical assistance to the Audit Office above all and USAID or this Swedish organisation, the Swedish government that have helped raise its capacities. So, with all this, we will support this report with an assessment that a really significant progress has been made in the work of the Audit Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14816	Is it a replica or isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14817	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14818	Replica, Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14819	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is more like one addition to this debate by Mr Domazet, and without having to spend too much time, as far as I know, and the next of all the debates that we held in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly during last year, and about the amendments and additions to the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions, which were adopted in this House, and unfortunately not adopted at the House of Peoples, the Audit Office decided and conducted a contest to increase the number of employees involved in the impact review. So there was also a tender for five impact auditors and I don't know if my colleague can confirm or deny me, they're like such employees and I believe that these two impact audits that we've got are the beginning of their activities in this audit. I would also point out that the co-operation between the Office for Audit and the Special Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly, but also all of us other parliamentarians, has advanced since the time we first met here on this proposal to amend and supplement the law. We had a recently held public debate that concerned this mentioned Law, which spoke seriously about what Mrs. Majkić today had accentuated and potentiated as the next very important steps in the work of the Audit Office. I hope that further progress of cooperation, amendments to the law, and if I am well known enough, and I think I have the right information, the revision office itself will soon come out with certain amendments and additions and the Revision Act and the Law on the Audit of BiH institutions, and we will have the opportunity to read about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14820	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the 10th agenda. 63 And now I give my word to my colleague, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14821	Before we went on vacation, I stayed in your debt regarding the 3rd item of the agenda, we received information that no one could come, that the Assistant Minister of Finance was simply not sent to this matter, because the Deposit Insurance Agency was the Proposer of the Law. We could only get a secretary from the Agency, which I do not think is appropriate and I suggest we vote on the conclusion – to postpone the debate on this request, which gives us the opportunity to accept this procedure 127 at the next session, because if we vote now, it would probably not go through with the procedure, and it would go into procedure 126. We therefore propose that we now vote on a proposal for a conclusion, to postpone the debate on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14822	Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? We have to ask, well, I realize that we have accepted this conclusion that there is both the general and the entity majority and that this point is being postponed for the next session. Before... we move to the 11th point of the agenda we're giving a 60-minute break. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14823	I ask my colleagues and colleagues to take their seats so that we can continue the debate. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. Report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for the period 01.01.2012 - 31.12.2012 On 27.03.2013, the BiH Ombudsman delivered this report to the procedure in accordance with Article 18. Law on BiH's Attorney General. The relevant Constitutional Commission delivered its Opinion on the Report on 17 April 2013. The report was adopted and referred to further procedure. I'm opening a debate. The D.A.'s here with us, so he can. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14825	I'm not going to talk about state property this time because I haven't recovered from that response from the Department of Defense yet, so to speak. So, I'll vote for this paper this time. I'm going to počeću on the front page, so the message is very symbolic and I'm hoping that the D.A. will stick to the right, and that politics will be, is, in the other plan. Oh, here's the honestest thing I'm saying. All I have is a request for clarification. So the report was put in the last part of the proposal and suggestions. I don't know now, that form and so on, whether it should have turned into some sort of conclusion. These first two measures or whatever you want, I absolutely support. However, I need an explanation for this last and last one. So, this Act on the Temporary ban on availability, you realize that the Act on the Temporary ban has been in force for 6 years and so on, and that the Commission for State Property is exempting certain parts of the property by applying exceptions under the law. I don't know what you're suggesting about this and what's the point, what do you suggest? What I have reported most is, in fact, that it is necessary to conclude interstate agreements on the recognition of judgments and bilateral agreements on the implementation of the Agreement on the issue of succession. As far as these bilateral agreements are concerned, as far as I know, we've been here doing ratifications and so on, with the largest number of countries in the neighborhood, we've signed some agreements. I tell you the truth, I'm not sure if we're not with anyone or what kind of agreements, for what kind of crimes, etc., so I'd like to ask you to explain it a little bit. As for bilateral agreements on the implementation of the concession agreement, the concession agreement has been ratified and it has its annexes which clearly process for each type of property. Some are already being realised without any bilateral contracts because everything has been resolved by the key Agreement on Succession and Annexes, so, embassies and so on. What do we have to sign some bilateral agreements with the countries with which we have a general conflict agreement and where more or less everything is settled? Finally, the Agreement on Succession issues provides for the establishment of a permanent commission of seniors, notes the senior state officials, etc., who, by joint work and by constant monitoring of the application of the Agreement on Succession Issues, resolves this. So, I'm seriously concerned now if they have to, in your opinion, and I think we're going to have to clear this up, maybe it's not time or opportunity I'm going to continue to deal with this, but here's the two things I'd like you to explain to me, and otherwise I'm going to absolutely support this Attorney General's work report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14826	Thank you. We don't have any more, I don't have any more registered here on the display. Whether the lawyer or Mr. Mandić has the need to answer or because he asked questions specific Mr. Belkić. Are you looking for an answer now? 65 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, thank you very much. I thank Mr. Mandić, the debate was very short. And we're going to the 12th agenda, Ad. 12. Report on the work of the BiH State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2012
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14829	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, in my opinion, has not carried out its mission. So this commission is explicitly competent to determine the work of the BiH Electrotransmitter. So, for, if we can call it that, the agony related to electrotransmitters, one of the key elements is exactly, in my opinion, this commission for the reason that this commission precisely determines how much traffic is going to get electrotransmitters, how much is it going to spend, so the most basic things that concern any institution, the State Regulatory Commission, so that determines elektroprenost. And as we know today, as far as I've heard from the media, today there's a board of directors of Elektroprenos and 200 and a few million marks standing for a long time, practically the resources of all of us citizens, and especially legal entities who paid for higher electricity, standing somewhere deposited and probably standing in banks 1 to 2%, and banks are selling it back to us 7-8%. Therefore, those who in some way do not participate in the directive create a new value, but unfortunately those who create a new value fall and fail to get results when it comes to creating new values and progress and economic progress and increasing citizens' standards. And that's why I think the State Regulatory Commission should therefore take responsibility and assess whether it gives in this way and allocates funds when it comes to electrotransmitters until things in electrotransmitters are resolved. Thank you very much. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14830	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14831	I thank the chairman. As for the previous speaker of my colleague Lijanović, I would like to possibly meet all my colleagues and colleagues, namely this House that the Communications Regulatory Agency, surely in certain areas, could do something more. However, I would like to point out that this Agency is one of the few that operates with the largest traffic in the country and with the smallest budget. This Agency is practically safe, or...................................................................................... [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, I'm talking about Derk. I believe that they achieve extremely good results, regardless of what we can say, that they are attributed to the practical assets that are in the accounts of certain banks, whether they could reroute it differently or impose it, whether it's in their jurisdiction, since we know what and what the power of entity authorities are in this regard. I believe that this institution, that it has certainly done its part of the job, can certainly do more in the coming period and what is already felt compared to last year. But I would ask my colleague Lijanović to be just a little more agile when it comes to the power of agriculture, both at the federal level and at the state level, that imports that are over 200 million marks of products that we can produce, be reduced and reduced to the level that our production is a little bit more relevant. So much, mostly I say hello, we'll vote for, by this point, a positive one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14833	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić, replica. Here you go. I'd like my colleagues and colleagues to be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14834	Here, I've reported under the line, I won't be able to do it for long, and through the discussion, because we have here, so the report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electrical Energy, and on the first page we have here in terms of which and obligations, means what the State is doing, so, the regulatory agency, right here we have an introduction. This material is so beautifully processed, and I have to say that it can benefit all of us because there's a lot of statistics in it. So, in this kind of report, the Regulatory Agency, meaning the State Regulatory Agency came out of its framework and gave us a cross-section here, meaning these transmission networks, the power of the hydropower plants, the thermopower plants, which is not in their jurisdiction, how many gigawatt-hours of 67 electricity were produced last year, in which of these electricity industries, the electricity industry of BiH, RS, the Croatian Community of Herceg Bosnia, how much of these electricity was produced, how much was purchased on the electricity market, how much was sold, etc. I think that this agency should do other jobs that happen in BiH, here we have statistics in the Council, that certain economic operators in BiH import large quantities of electricity while at the same time BiH, is, under suspicious circumstances and under suspicious prices, exporting electricity and not selling means within the borders of BiH itself. And that is why I think that this agency should be regulated in such a way, if it is already called regulatory, it should regulate the meaning of market relations, primarily electricity, means the transport of electricity in the BiH market, and that it is a little less concerned, although I say these data that have been entered here, whether they are clearly showing what the situation is, whether, electricity in all of BiH, where it can be seen, is whether, which is very important here that we have the cheapest electricity in BiH, or whether it is the cheapest electricity, for both the population and these business entities. It's clear to me here that it's emphasized that in 2010 there were subversives in... In 2012 because of the dry period, but here we have a very rainy period, so we should have these regulatory agencies or electricity commissions, both at entity level and this country, a little bit of dealing with price regulation if we have plenty, means rain and water, is there, let's see if there is a possibility of regulating the price of electricity on the bottom, because we know what our economic operators are about and when it comes to their competitiveness on the increasingly demanding European market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14835	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirza Kušljugić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14836	The Honorable Chairman. This is a third time for me to have the opportunity to speak about the Derek Report and, apart from the data that is changing and innovating each year, problems in the electricity sector remain unchanged. What I would like to draw your attention to this time is a part of the report, which has this time taxed on the commitments BiH has made by signing the Energy Community Treaty, very precisely with deadlines when some of these obligations are due to be met and given that it is the responsibility to implement energy policies on an entity level, however, I argue that we as Parliament must allay the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to provide us with a specific plan to meet these obligations. Because if we don't get that, a little culturally, however, the Derk Report warns us, so that there may be problems in certain segments that regulate this Treaty. Let me remind you, this is our deepest legal integration with the EU acquis, we are taking over the directives. What we should do is adopt laws. I think one of the conclusions of my discussion would be that we do not implement and adopt laws that, in this case, the competent ministry, the foreign trade ministry and 68 economic relations, would have to submit to this Parliament. I do not enter into the ingenuity of entity parliaments that have their own ingenuity and certain laws that they make at that level. That's why it's mine, I've told my colleagues from the Derek, my remark that they should have made their observations more acutely in the Report, because year by year we're going closer to the commitments we've taken, and we're not doing anything concrete on their fulfillment. And otherwise, we might get the impression that in this sector, we're acting like things are going to work out on their own. I say that myself, because for the failure to function, Elektroprenos is certainly the responsibility of all of us together, who, both in entity parliaments and in this House, are passing around as very important. And another question that was also given in the report. The Derk is responsible for the development of the electricity market, and in one place he said he had received a proposal for further development of the electricity market, that two years ago he sent a letter to the ministries to co-ordinate further the development of the electricity market and, among other things, it was in some way a response to Mr. Jurišić's discussion. There is no market for electricity in BiH, so there are no mechanisms for trading or trading, all bilateral agreements. In this context, I would like an assessment, I ask the question, I like the assessment of the representatives of the Derk – When do they really expect that the electricity market in BiH could function, or will we wait on January 1, 2015 when will it have to be open to the force of the law? Will that be before, are any steps on that road being taken? Because the main responsibility of the Derk is to monitor the functioning of the electricity market in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14837	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. Do the representatives of the regulators need to be shown and answered? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14838	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs. I am Milorad Tuševljak, currently chairman of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity. I will try briefly to answer these questions with the intention of clarifying some of the things and making some of the dilemmas about the jurisdiction of entity regulatory committees, the State Regulatory Commission and other electricity entities in BiH finally clearer. Namely, the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity is, according to the law that we often mention, the Law on Electricity, the regulator and the operator that this Assembly and this House adopted in 2003, responsible for regulating the monopoly activity of transmission, transport of electricity and the System Operator, which was done by US model in BiH, and it is a separate legal person compared to most European countries, means NOS - system operator, Independent System Operator. Our task, therefore, is to monitor their work in the sense that we approve tariffs, the necessary revenues and costs, to adopt their plans, to monitor regulatory oversight and monitoring of these entities in order to meet the requirements of the licence. It is also our responsibility to run, license international trade and transit electricity. 69 When we talk about trade and the market, this is exclusively about the wholesale market, trading largely on the high voltage transmission network. Trade at lower voltage levels is in the exclusive jurisdiction of entity regulatory agencies, with us, under the 2009 law, which has been imposed by the High Representative and the Brcko District, and for Brcko, we have been assigned the responsibility of all, from distribution, supply, production and trade. So in some parts we have some common, let's say, activities with this entity, only in that we have touch points. Secondly, our task is to create a regulatory environment for one transparent match of BiH market participants and those who import or export energy from BiH. So, and to ensure impartial and on equal terms the pre-known access of third parties to the Elektroprenos network, whether it was a physical approach to the network in the sense that someone wanted to join or virtually in terms of wanting to trade. So these rules must be respected and they are in line with European rules and European directives, it is clear to you that through the Treaty on Energy Community we have accepted and committed to align our regulations, laws in due time, but that we will also respect the commitments undertaken, international agreements, directives in this area and so on. Mr. Lijanović said that these, unscheduled money, that we may not have been able to determine tariffs properly, or we created conditions for someone to deposit 300 million or 200 at the expense. The truth is next, so Derk was bringing a tariff for the necessary transfer revenue for, so on the items, for wages, for depreciation which is a legal category, for operating costs, leaving a few percent return on capital or profit, as you will. It all worked out until there was a blockade of the company 4-5 years ago when no more decisions could be made at either the board level or the management level, so there has been a deposit of some hundred million dollars of money from the electrotrans in the last 5-6 years and probably close to 200 million unspent depreciation that must be spent in the coming time, so it cannot be spent on other purposes. What hasn't been shared so far, because we had this dividend, because we had a law that said that 10 years can't be shared by shareholders dividends, thinking that we're going to reinvest it and that we're going to prepare a network for a liberalised market, a fully liberalised electricity market in 2015. All this has not happened due to certain blockades in the operation of the transmission of four members of the Management Board, from Federation 3, from the RS, and members of the Board, all of them have long expired. Shareholder's Columbation Meeted in February
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14839	I would ask the representative of the Derk to limit himself to answering the questions of the representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14840	Okay. So, we did everything in our jurisdiction entirely. We've conducted monitoring regulatory, alerted multiple times and written transmission and NOS what they need to do to meet their obligations under the license. We didn't have the opportunity to do anything but get a license, and that would be an unprecedented event in Europe and the world. Taking on a monopoly activity license, who would then carry out this activity in BiH, no one. So that's it. 70 Mr. Jurišić spoke about some energy indicators that we brought here production, consumption, exports and so on. These are all indicators that have a significant impact on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14841	I'd like your colleagues and colleagues to pay attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14842	The domain of our action, meaning the ratio of power and energy over the transmission network, we just specified how much that energy is on the transmission network, what the loss of transmission is, we didn't talk about exporting, who exported it to, how much, at which prices, that's commercially sensitive information. It just means exchanges with neighbouring countries in energy sizes and it's completely within the scope of our responsibilities. Mr. Kušljugić talked about some things that we at the state level could do or should do, and that there is no need to raise it from the entity level through the ministries and amendments to the laws, that is to adopt, which we have repeatedly referred to, means an action plan to open a wholesale market, in the right sense of that word, to see how we will form a market operator, how we will round up this market space in BiH so that we can fully meet the challenges, a fully open liberalised market and integrate with the regional market of Southeast Europe, and tomorrow with the internal European market. We also have a state-level initiative through the state-level resolution ministry where we should make an action plan for achieving or indicative targets of renewable energy sources, so by 2020 that we will reach our commitment to the participation of renewable energy in consumption, total electricity in the entities and including Brcko in 2020. So much, if I've forgotten anything, I can fill out my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14843	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14844	I think either I didn't express myself correctly or you didn't understand me, so the point is that Derk sets a tariff for electrotransmitters. The elektroprenos is in agony, and you're carrying part of the responsibility, and that's not what we got in the report, to tell us what our problem is about helping you do it. We all know that these, these assets I've been saying, you're not even responsible for it, so Elektroprenos is responsible for these funds, the elektroprenos is the most directly responsible, and what's our mission in the Assembly, we here to fix it, we don't have. And that's why I told you to help us get involved and get rid of that thing. Thank you very much. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14845	Thank you. The representative of the Derk has a need to respond. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'd like to ask my colleagues and colleagues for less questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14847	I welcome all the chairors and honourable MPs. Look, I wouldn't be out right now if Mr. Lijanović hadn't repeated one question. The simple fact is, there are 300 million marks in Elektroprenos' accounts, not 200 million, and this is a accumulated profit of one part, most of the depreciation. It came from the lack of management and the Management Board of Elektroprenos, which does not bring annual investment plans to spend these funds. We made the tariff in accordance with the law, in accordance with our acts and warned for years about these problems. Basicly, if we need to talk about responsibility, management, board and Assembly of Elektroprenos, that is, and all the truth is, Derk has no jurisdiction in that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14848	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14849	I was thinking a little while ago, but I forgot, so I'm going to ask a very short question so you don't keep the discussion. Since today, at the very beginning of the discussion, the beginning of this Parliament and before the adoption of the agenda, and even after we have adopted some reports, there have been reports of the receipts of representatives and individual agencies, so since the unknown is the president of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, I would ask you to state how many are your receipts, deputy? Because in the House of Representatives of the Federal Parliament last year, a question has been asked, how much are the receipts of these regulatory entity agencies, or more precisely, FERK. So they said that they were receiving 7,000 marks, since we public defenders have the highest incomes, so here if it is no secret to tell us, how many are your incomes?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14850	I would, however, suggest fellow Jurišić to ask it as a representative's question, so we can get it in writing. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14851	Here we have here directly, these are direct conversations are the best.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14852	If fellow MPs want to hear, if they want to answer, they can.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14853	Derk [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14854	Thank you, I hope it's... [[Common discussion]] I thank and conclude this item of the agenda and we move to the 13th point of the agenda
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14856	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14857	Business or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14858	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14859	Here you go. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14860	I thought I didn't say anything, but when I heard that no one was actually going to ask a fundamental question, SNSD and SDP seemed to me, in January of the month, to send a set of laws, among other things, a law relating to resolving the Elektroprenos issue. In a magical way, these laws, as they came in January, are here in the fourth month and it is obvious that there is no political support, and all six leaders supported these laws. It's really unusual that, it's a real story, not to honor them, but to us, we need to ask where we really are. And my colleague Kušljugić when he spoke, I expected him to say – here I consider on behalf of my political party who was the promoter of that set of laws, that we actually agreed something, but then we repented and we give it up. So, _________(?) 73 [[no microphone turned on]] No, no. So it would be correct to explain what reason, what reason is there? What's the reason we've been waiting for these laws since January of the month? If they were laws on the construction of a new atomic hydrothermia, they would have adopted them by now. I can't believe there's even one objective reason, and I'd really like it if you SDP know the real reasons for that. That was correct that you explained in your presentations and I hope you still have time for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14862	Thank you. Now we have two replicas. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14863	Well, I wouldn't have answered if I hadn't heard that it was about the essence of things. The lady warned us that it was the essence of things. On December 05th, the leader of the SDP delivered to the Council of Ministers a set of laws and so on, but not the law of this kind, but an agreement on how to divide the mani,... when the truth works, right, so it got a little stuck. These people have nothing to do with it. So, you should... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, you should ask your boss. Ask him...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14865	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14866	It's not the law, it's a deal to share that money, how to activate it. Ask the boss over there.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14867	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14868	Ask your boss since it's an important thing, from the general...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14869	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14870	Well, you said it was of general importance.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14871	I'd beg not to have a dialogue from the bench. Here you go, Mr. Belkić. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14872	Ask Dodik where the money is.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14873	Dear Representative Mirza Kušljugić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14874	Here, since I've been called by an esteemed colleague, let me explain. What was agreed was, under the 1st deblockation of the work of Elektrotrans; 2nd adoption of long-term plans; 3rd division of profits before the end of the period of 10 years. After an agreement the minister responsible had with the entity minister in Brussels, the plan is supported.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14875	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14876	Supported. Mr Sanino, along with the foreign trade and economic relations minister, with entity ministers, agreed on the order of events, one, two, three. The first thing didn't happen, the elektroprenos is not unblocked. That's it, I said we're carrying a part of the guilt that Elektroprenos has not yet been unblocked. If we don't open that story, if we're going to defend ourselves behind jurisdiction, and objectively it's entity jurisdiction, if the Elektroprenos Assembly is made up of two prime ministers, and we don't think that we need to discuss it in this House, then I'm saying that we're also carrying part of the responsibility. I'll just remind you that one of my first proposals was to discuss it. And I said, we don't have to, when it comes to our agenda. So, I have to say that I was among the people who supported this order of events, but not as it was interpreted, let's split the profits immediately and let's keep the transmission blocked. I've represented that attitude on all the arrangements, and that's what I'm saying today. This is the only order of events that can unblock an entire story that's connected to electrotransmitters. So, the Assembly, the prime ministers entity, the change in management, the adoption or proposal of a long-term development plan, the adoption by the Derk, the assessment of how much funding it takes for this plan to invest and the funds that remain outside of it, since there is no way they can implement it in the next 2 years, division as agreed with the location for development projects. Let me remind you, it wasn't a division that was supposed to cover the budget deficit. Here's to being exact what the SDP's position was.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14877	Thank you. Or one prime minister and one prime minister. I'm closing the debate. 75 We're going to the 13th point, Ad. 13. Report on the work of the BiH Export and Credit Agency for 2012 Management Board The Management Board of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH submitted this Report to the procedure on 02.04.2013 pursuant to Article 14(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on the Export Credit Agency of BiH. The Committee for Foreign Trade and Customs submitted its opinion on the Report on 17 April 2013. The report was adopted and referred to further procedure. Before the debate opens, since it's almost 4:00, and because of the points that are still ahead, I'm limiting the debate for this point and all the next one to 5 minutes. I'm opening a debate. Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14879	Thank you. We have received a report from the IGE here and we have received from the competent commission that a unanimously accepted report on the work of the office, the Export-Credit Agency Committee, with what was not clear to me in this Opinion from the competent commission, whether this part of the Report which, or how much they are asking for an increase of funds for their work. So if, then, I suggest a conclusion – to charge the Council of Ministers to secure up to 500 million funds to support IGE exports. And here's the conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14880	Thank you. Dear Representative Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14881	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be shorter than you've set out the discussion, just that, given that one part of the question on the Commission itself is debated, there's no need to repeat these same things twice or twice. I think we had a very useful discussion on the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission itself and what we agreed with the Export-Credit Agency, which is that a review of the loans and loans received on 31.12 will be delivered here next year, of course. And of course, if that review is small, if it has, to be delivered, and that this review of the arrival in each following year, it would be practical for 2013 quarterly, or monthly, also be covered through this report itself, which I do not think is a problem and they have agreed with the representatives of the Export Credit Agency, it will not be a problem to deliver. 76 Also when it comes to the information relating to the factoring funds, the review of the funds that have been recovered and not recovered since 31.12.2012, and the review of the factors in the funds that arrive for payment by quarter, as I said earlier, or months this year. Surely there should be one review of the expired guarantees for 2012 and whether there are and how many of them are realised on the burden of the Export Credit Agency. What I want to point out here, and that is why I answered the most, and that is – Why is there practically no export financing in the plan where you practically go with the 37% index? That's actually the essence of what they're going to say at the Export Credit Agency, that's exactly what I heard earlier, and that's a lack of funds. In order to make it more of an interest, above all for exporting business entities, and taking into account the facts that could be seen by the Federation finance minister and the RS finance minister, it is evident that identical issues have been raised, identical requests regarding information about what is currently being done, when it comes to the Export Credit Agency. I don't think there's any problem with dealing with any previous issues, like, for example. defining the distribution of the initial capital of the Export-Credit Agency between entities and BiH, and in order to gain confidence, because this will practically create conditions to assess whether there is a need to seek additional funds, since we have, when it comes to RS, we have the Law on Debt and Debt and Guarantees of the RS and ultimately, if there is an interest in business entities, to assess the need to increase the funds, or the opportunities we would give to the Export-Credit Agency which, in my opinion, has support when it comes to this Report itself, because it gave in fact everything we were interested in. It is not bad and I think it is necessary to give and a certain kind of clarification of the items in this Report on Financial Position on 31.12., especially when it comes to assets, deposited in banks, also capital and liabilities, and that is certainly what can be contained in this Report itself which has not been done unlike some of the other reports that we have had here in the Parliamentary Assembly which is methodologically far worse done compared to this Report. This report, as far as I'm concerned, has a passage, and I would recommend not to go with some large and large conclusions at the House of Representatives but to continue the talks with the entity ministries, to exchange information regarding the operations of the Export-Credit Agency itself, to create assumptions and make a realistic assessment that will be of interest to both entities and business entities dealing with these exports, without imposing certain solutions that will be, let us give funds to the Export-Credit Agency. Let's see what the situation is, let's see what one and the other ministry thinks, and I'll do it again, which is interesting to me that the same views and issues and the Ministry of Finance of the Federation and the Ministry of Finance from the RS are identical. Such a type of response required by the resolution ministries from both entities is something that can certainly be provided by the Export Credit Agency as quality information and can be jointly assessed in such a way as to potentially strengthen the position of the Export Credit Agency to support economic operators engaged in foreign affairs. There's so much for now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14882	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14883	Thank you. I'd just like to take advantage of this situation, though I won't use five minutes or two to get out of this Export Credit Agency Report. What's very important, in my opinion, is that the Agency is doing a positive job. It is very important that all the funds that have placed that have been returned within the agreed deadline as provided for in their procedures. I would agree with my colleague Lijanović that definitely, here's the situation here that's the other way around. I have to say hello, but there doesn't have to be 500 million to be at least 200 million as it was in... agriculture. If we had so much money that... companies that have contracted 500 million-million-dollar jobs, not to say even a billion KMs, they need guarantees. I think in this part, it would be good for the Council of Ministers, and if we want the IGA to operate well, and after all, it's an automatic sign that companies that are export-oriented will have a guarantee on signed contracts for big jobs, which will all be a positive job for us all. And I believe that the Council of Ministers must pay attention and at the very least allow 100% of the amount IGA has had in the last year. So, that would be it, mostly I'd like the Council of Ministers to do what I suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14884	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14885	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, the report also shows that IGA is entering a new strategic situation to more expose itself to the risks that result from the structure of exports of our economy, orientations to high risk areas, Libya, Iraq, Kurdistan and others, so other areas in which competition is not so strong. Therefore, IGA should support such a orientation of our export companies, and we see that its potential is extremely modest and is asked a really big question, as well as what to do with this agency. I can give an example of extremely low activity, like that. factoring. Factoring is shown somewhere with about 30 million marks a year. And let me tell you that in Serbia, the factoring value is over 500m euros, a billion marks. In Slovenia, it is about 750m euros or a billion and a half marks. So we cannot develop more significant and factoring activities that are very important for exporters through IGE. And the question is, what can IGA do to support exports with this capacity? It's one thing to say, one stagnation, one quite passive action, no matter how personal those organizations tried to raise their efficiency. That is why I really think that we should support initiatives to increase the capital of this agency, to achieve something like Habor in Croatia or in Western countries such as Eksin Bank organisations, etc. Of course, we can't make some big leaps, but raising capital from the current 51 million to anything that goes past 100 and 200 million would be an extremely significant venture. I think that, in addition to the quantitative aspect, we must pay good attention to the qualitative aspect, which is that the Agency is affirmed as an agency that will give on behalf of the state adequate guarantees, export economy. 78 And here we finally come to this question Mr. Bojić pointed out, the structure of capital. The capital in IGI is state capital, i.e. BiH's capital. It was formed by the governments of Japan and other donors practically forgiving BiH's credit activities and transferring it to this fund 12-13 years ago. Therefore, we can now open the space for entities to enter a certain share capital, or the state to raise its potential, so that it can be somewhat more reasonable, some more respectable capital, so that these activities, lending and export support, can be increased to some more appropriate amount. In that sense I can support this proposal of conclusions, of course we are all aware that there is no magic stick that will now increase the capacity of the IGE, but let it increase by 20 and 30 again is one qualitative improvement, so we will do it gradually. Anyway, this institution is extremely important and necessary for this economy. I think it's a good thing he has a balanced portfolio of credit operations, so he's covering all of BiH, and it's extremely, extremely important to continue in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14886	Thank you. Discussion, dear colleague Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14887	Well, me, I fell for my eye here talking about "Bosnaplod“ Brčko, as one of your clients, and I noticed that there was no number left to you "Bosnaplod“ Brčko, and I see for the others there is a number. So I'm curious, what's this all about? In fact, it's a company that's privatized in the Brcko District. It is not privatized by entity models, but by the models of the international community, i.e. the supervisor at the time, as they say – a view for reputation. The company's been sucked to the bottom, I don't know how many years it's due. The workers sued the Brcko District judiciary a few years ago for paying their salaries. The court rejected them because of some procedural mistakes and received an account of 2,000 marks to pay those costs to the court, as workers. Now, that has nothing to do with your agency, but it has to do with the way you've been giving funds and the way you've been checking out who you're giving the funds to. So I'm curious about what amount this is really about? So, Mr. Belkić keeps throwing me, since I'm the last speaker, let me ask you what's your salary, director and head of the board of directors? Not me, but Mr. Belkić. _________(?) [[Common discussion]] [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14888	And you are? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Go ahead. Here, the Director of the Agency needs to answer questions. Here you go. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14890	I welcome all present. I've been called and I want to answer. As for "Bosnaploda" it was probably a mistake not to place it, it was a loan of 2 million marks, which was approved, which actually consists of several loans that were made for the purchase of crafts. And it's a loan that was loaned in 2007, two loans in 2007, two in 2008 right before the crisis, when the company got into trouble. So, before that period, these loans were returned regularly and taken back again because it was short-term loans for supply of mostly cherry, plums, I don't know, mostly for buying on BiH territory and on Serbia's territory. As a result of the crisis, they've lost the market, what's happened, and there's been a bankruptcy, which we're aware of, what we know. Of course, IGA approved those funds in accordance with the procedures which were then applicable to the granting of loans. And, uh, these were mostly procedures prescribed by the World Bank, because we started as a World Bank project, and that's actually brought this kind of credit just to promote export credit insurance that's actually the main product. And it's not, unfortunately, the only loan we dropped. We had more exporters who went bankrupt, who were the result of the crisis, unable to repay the loan. Just what's good about this loan is that IGA, let's say, is quality secure and we hope to collect a good share of the mortgage from the realisation. If there are any more questions about the expert. Salary, salary is 4,000 marks, coefficients, so this is all, I think now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14891	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 14th item of the agenda, Ad. 14. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on Parliament's initiative by Šemsudin Mehmedović In last session of the House, no entity majority was required during the vote. The college as a commission has failed to achieve consent. You got the report on this. We're not having an argument. We're going to point 15, Ad. 15. Discussing Senad Šepić's initiative
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14896	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I also suggest that we send this item of the agenda, that we send this material to the committee responsible, that the commission plead first and then hold a debate on the matter. Because it's obvious that this is unprepared material, that it's just copied and delivered to us 81 to the House of Representatives. Therefore, I expect the committee in charge to have such a position on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14897	What would you say would be the committee in charge? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, human rights is also proposed unanimously this point of the agenda. koleginica Members and colleagues, each MP has the right to propose a item of the agenda, if he has adequate material. We can discuss this item on the agenda without going on board. On that basis, this has come to the agenda. If Parliament decides to go to the commission, there is no problem, but the business procedures are respected. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14899	Well, I've already spoken about this procedural aspect. And it is true, you're right, it's the same commission that would be in charge, but I said that maybe they should have given their opinion along the way with the initiative. But here, regardless of whether or not it's going to be voted, the commission, I want two or three sentences to say, to suggest one conclusion. What I could understand in a very short time, so it is obvious that it is not the conduct or recommendation of the Ombudsman, or the non-implementation of court decisions. Of course, there is a question of what Parliament can and what is done, when decisions of the court are not implemented, which is the procedure, which intervenes and how, I say, is ensured by the repressive means that decisions are implemented. Since this is in my opinion, of course I also understand the interest of this particular case, in my opinion we have a mass phenomenon and practice that passes into the practice of the court's judgments not being carried out, starting with the Constitutional Court and beyond. I propose that we ask the Ombudsman institution for a special report on the non-execution of the rulings of the Constitutional Court of BiH, the Court of BiH, the Supreme Courts of Entity and the Court of Appeal of the Brcko District. Let them assess the time period for which they can provide this, so that we can then take a certain action towards the prosecution, according to the institutions they have... and first check, whether the requests have been submitted to the prosecution, for the implementation of the enforcement of the verdict. If they're not, let's get these things going. We will now have one item on the agenda, I have seen, you have called it very gently, correspondence with the prosecution etc. So we have a problem with non-implementation or judgment of the Constitutional Court. But here I am, not to put it into discussion, so I support that a solution is also sought in this particular case. Of course, as suggested, I don't know what we can do. I am absolutely for everything that can be done, to help these people. Of course, in accordance with the law. And here, I suggest this conclusion on this agenda point. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14900	The word has been sent by Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14901	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't answer to discuss this item on the agenda, because the apriors agree with what was proposed, so to get the opinion of the resolution committee and which would serve as some starting point and for our possible debate. But I came forward because of this proposal by my colleague Belkić, who mentioned here, and said that the Ombudsman for human rights should deliver, let me say, a list of how, what, the material of what they are, is a special report. I don't think it's good that these two things get mixed up with this agenda point, or this one you can run it as an initiative or already how, ask the Ombudsman for this special report, but I think this Special Report that we've received and this topic deserves a special pause and a special point of the agenda, because it's 46 people, or 46 families who are existentially bitter because of the non-execution of the BiH Court of Justice ruling and a number of other problems that are attached to this. So I think this deserves a special debate and, of course, to be analysed, to see what the measures are. It is clear here that the ICC is responsible for the Council of Ministers appointed, resolved both by the Director and by the Management Board of the ICC. And there's no dilemma about who's in charge, if we're going to talk about some repressive measures or a certain potential initiative, what to do with the leadership of that institution that doesn't execute judgments. So, I agree with this that the committee for the next session provides us with an opinion and a position, as the starting material for the debate and this report, and what you have suggested, it can go as a request, but apart from this, because I think this is a very, very delicate problem and a problem that provokes the existential threat of the people who are the subject of this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14902	I am informisan that during the debate on this agenda point, Mr Mehmedović's proposal to refer this report to the competent commission. I'd like to ask you then to vote on that predolence. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that this proposal has been reached by both the general and the entity majority. That's what we've finished discussing today on the 17th item of the agenda. We're going to the 18th point of the agenda, Ad. 18. Ad hoc Commission's appointment procedure for the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications I'm opening a debate. Are there any reports? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on the 18th agenda. 83 We move to the 19th point of the agenda, Ad. 19. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's memos
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14905	Unlike a respected colleague, Džaferović, I would not simply accept this memo. And I think they deserve a lot more attention than just knowing. Since the next session will have a report on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and I believe that you will support the proposal to have someone present from the Prosecutor's Office who will defend this report and answer questions, I would ask that we adopt a conclusion regarding this item of the agenda, that the Prosecutor's Office explain to us what correspondence is and which have been the usual practices so far, according to the institutions or individuals who have failed to comply with the Constitutional Court's decisions, in order to enter into matter, to see what practice is in BiH, because it is obvious that the Parliamentary Assembly is not the only one who has not respected the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and since it started to work in BiH. Therefore, in order to take this subject seriously, we would have to make an introduction first. I think the introduction is to prepare for the next session for the prosecutor to respond to the correspondence, but also to invite the representatives of the Constitutional Court to finally come to this House, because they are directly involved in this process, and to explain to us how they are implemented, not to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court and which is a correspondence between the level of government, such as Parliament, the Prosecutor's Office and the Constitutional Court. So I agree with you that at this point we will only take this into account, but that the debate on this is not now being concluded, but that we should leave it for the next time, when the prosecution, the representatives of the prosecution, but also the Constitutional Court and all the others we invite, are present, to open up here in a quality way. Of course, from Parliament, legal services, defenders and others serving the Parliamentary Assembly, we should prepare legal acts, to see how communication can be made in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14906	Thank you. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14907	Oh, I'm a little bit of a quick look at this agenda point. So when you look at how we formulated this, you can see this, what kind of relationship we're making. 84 So we said it was information about memos. And the point is not to implement the Constitutional Court's decisions and are listed which they are. And as far as correspondence is concerned, she's very clear to me, with the fact that I really don't know the procedure and I don't mind talking about those procedures. I support this debate, to discuss this, so I have just suggested one conclusion for the Ombudsman to give us a special report. I hope that we will also declare him on the unimplemented decisions of the Court of BiH, the Supreme Courts of Entity and the Court of Appeal of Brcko, so that we have a complete picture. But please, or I won't support the conclusion that will be formulated in a way that we call on judges of the Constitutional Court, including the BiH prosecutor to some sort of hearing, etc. Therefore, if it is not formulated in such a way, that is, if it is formulated in a way that all together, although things are completely clear, decisions are not commented, implemented, judgments must be carried out, it shall be answered if they are not implemented. But here, I don't mind having that kind of dialogue. But in general, I do believe that this is a subject that needs to be seriously debated and determined according to its obligations, namely to determine who does not carry out his obligations.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14908	The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14909	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I kind of, unbusinessfully, have to admit I threw it out of the bench. That's what Mr. Živković heard. He heard exactly, and then he took the heat off of it. Here's what I'm saying, officially, in business, here's the information, this information needs to be taken into account, and I'm putting a point there, so I do. It's about the prosecution's actions on specific matters. The prosecutor collects facts, collects notes, he does his job for which he's in charge. It's a matter of fact, and we can't get involved in this particular thing, because we're gonna be accused of getting involved in the prosecution's work. We can generally discuss a problem called execution or non-execution of something, but these are concrete memos of the Prosecutor's Office, with concrete requirements, on specific cases and specific cases, and nothing more has to be answered, if we want to be at the height of the task and to be an institution that will not enter into the powers and competences of other institutions. What will the prosecutor do, how, I don't know, it's his job and his responsibility. That's why I said that we can only take this to the knowledge and nothing more. As far as these conclusions are concerned, I will not support any conclusion that has been made with these concrete things, because this simply has to be out of the debate, this is the job of the judiciary, it is not Parliament's business. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14910	Dear Representative Milorad Živkovi, Vice-President, Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14911	Dear counterpart Džaferović, I agree with you and would not burden this Parliament, nor the Joint College, nor the college, when it comes to only communication between the prosecution. We have so far, you have here papers in front of you, giving information when asked of us. 85 Here you are going one step further. Here, a certain Mrs Biljana Simeunović, the prosecutor, asks that we include you as Parliament in this conversation. To indicate who was present at the sittings when it was discussed, to say who was a member of any committee about when it was being discussed, to be stenograms from the delivery session. Do you, as an excellent lawyer, know what this is all about? And I have sought your help in this, no more conversations between the Joint College and the College towards the Prosecutor, but conversations in which and your rights as MPs have been questioned here, that you are doing your job and constitutionally guaranteed things that behind this pay phone can also be said to act according to your conscience. What kind of relationship is that? You want me to say what kind of relationship it is, when I question the prosecution, who it is, and how we're responsible for the non-implementation of the Constitutional Court decisions so far, I don't get any answer. This is the prosecutor's relationship with this Parliamentary Assembly and the parliamentary issue, where they were obliged to answer me, is it for the first time that someone in this country is responding to this Parliament, individually and MPs, because no decisions of the Constitutional Court have been implemented, and all others have so far not had the need to respond. What kind of relationship is that? We want to talk about the party membership of a certain lady, we want to talk about what are the real intentions ahead of this? Yeah, I want to talk, but I'm gonna wait for a certain lady to come to the session next time along with the D.A.'s superior, so let's open up a question and party belongings and what it's like to push the macaque to the finish line in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14912	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14913	Dear colleague Živković, I am fully aware and oriented when it comes to this matter. I didn't say anything by accident. I thought it over before I said what I said, in the discussion of this agenda point. So everything is clear to me and I can only repeat it, this is a concrete thing. The D.A.'s office should do their job, and I'll put an end to it, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14914	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14915	I thank the Honorable President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I don't know how much we're all prepared to discuss this, because we, I got this material when I got into the hall here, so I haven't seen it before. It's not good, we've been arguing here for two hours this morning. I didn't want to contribute to that debate, to the role, to the behavior, to the action, or to any kind of NGO, to a peripheral, marginal NGO, but here, she found a reason to be the subject of our debate, whether it should be here or not for two hours. 86 This is, if I understand well what the Vice-President, Mr. Živković, said I absolutely support it, only it seems to me that he has not drawn it seriously enough yet, probably expecting that the debate on this issue will yet follow. We have, if I understand it better, and whoever understands this topic better, I would like to bring it closer to all of us again, we have a precedent over the precedents. We've got an investigation from the D.A., the DA's office against Parliament, that's right. And we say no, no, I don't mean this, don't let anyone accidentally say the words, because we will not let Bog affect the independence of the prosecutor. Can we talk here, can we make decisions whatever they are? It's a fundamental right in countries that don't even say and are not afraid of being democratic. That any prosecutor, by any order of judgment, should speak this word on purpose, dare, where does he have the courage to do so? Are we really, is this some kind of new form of democratic governance in this country at hand? Are we at the door, God Bog, a coup? You know, when someone threatens parliamentarians to listen to them, that they'll be punished for making a decision that, here's not appropriate, where are we? And we're still calling on each other to stand by, because maybe it's not that big, which can wait for us all in the future. Perhaps next time the vote comes, the prosecutor will come with SIPA and have a conversation with each of us about how we will plead on certain issues. And to avoid confusion, I absolutely do not support, so I do not support the non-execution of any court's decisions, any court, especially the Constitutional Court. Therefore, here is the previous point when we said that there are no court decisions in the case of a number of citizens of this country, I am absolutely in favour of opening this debate and making it clear here, that no one has the right to ignore the implementation of the court's decisions. We have one specific person. One of the court's decisions concerns the removal of certain provisions of the electoral law. We have a problem that there is no political unity over possible solutions. We have different suggestions or maybe we don't have any different, there's been one or two proposals, but there's no political will to accept these proposals. But if we get to those solutions, whatever it is, come under the duress of law enforcement, wherever they are, I think it's more than worrying. And here, I'm going to propose this verbally, but I think Mr. Živković has already done it in writing, since he's closer there, so that we can postpone this debate on this agenda point for the next session, because I think we're all getting a good read on what we've got, because I don't think we're well prepared and we see what's really going on here. So here, in that sense the proposal, means to postpone until the next session, and if the D.A.'s report on the work is going to be, then the team might as well get together to discuss these two points of the agenda. Thank you, my lady.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14916	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14917	So you see, so as any discussion goes, things get more serious, at least in the opinion of those who speak, including me. I absolutely agree that the debate on this should be done but not under this formulation and not in this way, because indeed what Mr. Lozančić says is simply put us here on the bench and we have managed to look at this 87 correspondence etc. When you look at the first look, you simply see that the D.A. is calling for a solution, and then he follows the law, so he asks for a statement, etc. Now, is there anything in this Mr. Lozančić, which is why I came forward, very big words, etc. So, whether it's an investigation against us MPs, it's said here, I really do, I also join the debate, but in a correct and realistic way, to see first what the rights are, how the judgments are carried out, who has the right, whether the solution to non-execution is delivered to the prosecution by automation, etc., are we the Law on Immunity, etc. protected from any questions and whether we are above all, etc.? But the fact remains, we have not executed the Constitutional Court's verdicts, and we are the ones who execute them, it remains a fact. Now we need to see and I suggest that, therefore, in preparation for this agenda item for the next session, let the Constitutional Commission look at it, to see what is in line with the rules of procedure, let people be invited if necessary from the Office of Law, etc. that MPs are prepared here, because we are not legal experts, especially when it comes to the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court, because it is a practice with us quite unknown. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14918	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14919	It's not a classic replica, but here's another way to answer, to comment on what Mr. Belkić is, here's the question. We know by the D.A.'s Law, uh, what the D.A.'s institution is, it's essential that we all know. And we know that the prosecutor is not the Ombudsman's institution, nor do I know this institution, we know what he's dealing with, from the memos that have been delivered it is clear that the prosecution is investigating the conduct of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, because it is seeking – who took part, what decisions have been made, which are not, etc. From the questions that are, what's the D.A.'s office gonna do if it's not that, what's that information for? So what does it mean, we've been put under investigation by the D.A.'s office. It is not a problem for individuals, the Parliamentary Assembly is put in place, asking the College for data from some who, who must not be interested in the prosecution in any democratic country. Whether or not the Parliamentary Assembly is to address this, it is a matter of discussion, but I agree that this should also be discussed why decisions are not implemented, not only of the Constitutional Court, but of the courts that are being brought in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14920	The word has the chairman of the House of Representatives, Dr Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14921	My colleagues and fellow MPs. So let me just say that this point is on the agenda at all today. So, on the basis of the conclusion of the Joint College of the two homes where, where the topics have been answered by the Prosecutor's Office on certain questions and when we have faced issues that come out of our mind outside the framework of the Prosecutor's Office and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's communication, we have concluded that we need to meet all MPs in a common way, after a democratic debate, and 88 to decide on further action. Namely, we have so far had several letters from the Prosecutor's Office to which we have responded and I have personally signed or signed with or signed with the chairman of the House of Peoples, several of these answers, I have seen before that fellow Živković also signed on behalf of the House of Representatives. And all of these, all of these questions in our opinion were, in our opinion, in the context of communication that two pillars of government, so to speak, can lead. However, this latest memo that has come, which is here before you, but perhaps all have not been able to read it, so I will quote one paragraph, says – Given the above, it is necessary to provide information on who was part of the Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, who remained present at that session since 14.05.2012, in what function or duty? Please submit the minutes of the 12th session of 14th May 2012 and the act under which the Council of Ministers is tasked with proposing an adequate solution with the aim of implementing the Constitutional Court's decisions as stated in the Constitutional Court's decision of 16 January 2013 and an explanation of what is meant by the term, under the quotes "adequate solution", and of any documentation relating to the matter at hand, certified photocopy, and possibly further correspondence with the Council of Ministers in relation to the above. It is also necessary to provide information on who made the BiH Parliamentary Assembly between 08/08/11 and 08/02, and after that, the current state. Therefore, when we concluded at the Joint College that we would put this item on the agenda and yesterday at the UZZ and the Extended College, we also concluded that we would propose it on the agenda today, we did not think that today we would end the debate on this and it was, we were going to open this debate, to postpone it for the next session, to continue in fact at the next session when it would certainly be debated about the Prosecutor's Report when it should be a representative of the Prosecutor's Office, even better and the relevant prosecutor, when we should probably invite a representative of the Constitutional Court to be there, and that, in the meantime, the relevant service of Parliament, if the relevant commission, or commission of this matter, should analyse and possibly prepare the basis for any conclusions on this Parliament. So we understand that today we are not going to end this point with any conclusions, but we felt that this debate should be opened. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Petar Kunić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14922	Thank you, Chairman. I've been thinking a little bit about knowing that prosecutor, about knowing things, this is a rarity that, I don't know, can get into Ginnis' book. Apparently, it mixes executive structures and representative structures, the Assembly, Parliament. And that this is an expression of ignorance of things and that it doesn't take much of a waste of time. But one thing that matters is the execution of the Constitutional Court's decisions. I have to say I don't have a review of the other rules of Criminal Law, etc. about that, but the Constitutional Court lacks one serious thing, which is the Constitutional Court Act, the Constitutional Court Act where these things must be regulated. The Constitutional Court Act was in this House six, seven years ago, where the High Representative withdrew it. And I wouldn't rule out the impact of certain international factors on that, I can't be affected and they could never, uh, on that deputy prosecutor, what Simunovica is, Simeunovićka, yeah, start threatening the representative government. So, to threaten... and this tells the justification of today's debate, what you said, that it was not good to discuss, it was fantastic that Mr. Mehmedović asked that question that little heard about these things. That this Parliament has brought itself to the low branches, to the low branches. 89 I would not agree with Mr Džaferović if he could not discuss individual matters if they move to a general phenomenon. If this is a general phenomenon, then this Parliament can discuss it and cannot discuss individual cases, of course. Because independence of the court isn't really about the independence of the courts, it's about the independence of the judges in solving concrete things, that's the essence of things. But it seems to me that here, again, the Anglo-anglosaksonski law is mixed, someone threw it here, you go against it, you go against it, you go against it, and so on. She listened and did according to the instructions given. But I accept all of what the College has suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14923	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14924	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So not to be a supporter of Mr. Živković's, who is here and the boss of me and from my club, but what it means is, here I support you, Mr. Ljubić, and all that Mr. Kunić said, Mr. Belkić. What does it mean if we take this into account? They could write here whatever they wanted, to remind you of three things. So here in Parliament, I ask a several questions and I never get an answer, I file a criminal report, I take it directly to the Prosecutor's Office, not to Parliament, who stole the Dayton Agreement? He stole our country from some people, but there's no Dayton Agreement, there's no state. My esteemed colleague and head of the club, of course I must address the titles, because I may hope for the next term, who knows,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14925	And maybe you'll get arrested, too. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14926	And maybe I'll get arrested, of course, make a copy of all the Dayton agreements and you all get out of the O.R., I come back and I see the other 25 of those Dayton agreements, they won't carry people, they don't interest anyone in the translation. Well, they came like that, but I'm not going like that. Now, look, I'll take the next criminal report that he disappeared against the NN face, because if I knew who stole the Dayton Agreement, I'd take it, if I knew who stole the CEFTA Agreement, I'd take it against that perpetrator, but NN, directly to the D.A.'s office, I'd take it. There's no here in the report. So here he opened that question five times, people where the CEFTA Agreement is? Croatia is now in the EU, it is not a CEFTA member and we have to trade with them, so if I don't have an CEFTA agreement, I don't know what it says there, although I was the chairman of the commission at the time, so I knew something about it. And to return one more thing, to advocate, what Mr. Živković and Mr. Ljubić are looking for, and here's Mr. Niko, I forgot him earlier, and Mr. Belkić, to open the debate when they come, so let me ask them – in 2005 I get the Constitutional Court's decision in favour of the appeal I made and by their regulation, because they work without law, as the respected professor Kunić said, there is no law and they are obliged to follow the execution of their decisions within a year and do nothing of course and once again by the same system, then as a politician I write 90 criminal charges and directly, not here, not at the office, not with pasti, but directly at the Prosecutor's Office and Prosecutor at the table – sign by Chief Prosecutor Marinko Jurčević that you have received this. Signs a man, I have a copy, and they don't do anything. Against the person where they state in the decision who the responsible persons are and now I get the 2012 report. - 2013, so I guess when we just increased their budget in 2013 and I'll never forgive myself for skipping it, who set me up so I didn't watch me vote, that they were the only ones who had an increase in the budget. That is why I support that this debate continues, and that this expert service, it is good for Mr. Živković, our preparation of how many memos and our parliamentary questions went to the Prosecutor's Office and the Court that we never got our answers to, and they have it in the administration, so when these gentlemen get there who need to sit down, not these CCIs, let me ask them or if they should sit here instead of me, so that we collegiately conduct the debate and the conversation. If I can't ask them that, then I don't know what my role in Parliament is and who it is independent of. They are independent of each of us, most of all, but they are not independent of those they should fight, what they write to us is this letter that they received from us. No matter what happens to me, do something without my knowledge, but do from the domain of your profession and what the law tells you to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14927	Thank you. Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14928	No, I won't say anything new, but I'll just point out that this points to the key absurdity of the key foundation of the state, so one of the key pillars of the state. The committees, for example, in a letter requesting that the information which did the Parliamentary Assembly should be provided, stating that at least the term of office was stated and after that, or the current situation, it is not important and necessary to act as soon as possible on this request. Absurd is the situation that the D.A.'s prosecutor is demeaning another key foundation of the state, i.e. Parliament and a condescending power with these. To be even more absurd, which suggests absurdity about a very suspicious way of choosing these personalities. I'd understand this if the D.A. had written, because he's talking to the biggest, and I'm sure never the chief prosecutor would have written anything like this. The Prosecutor of the Prosecutor's Office has put us in one position worse than in the previous system, if you remember the "Sudija“ affair or worse, which here was very funny than this House of Badgers, Badgers to whom this prosecutor sues, judges, or for which this prosecutor prepares the indictment to be detained. And that in no country in the world would be possible, at least this way, so he's suing us, but this too can only be done by people who are neither prosecutors nor lawyers, but are probably, for life, frustrated with the feeling, with what is the position of politicians or legislators. I don't know a person at all, but I'm deeply convinced if it would be analyzed to make it happen. Unfortunately, a small number of honorable exceptions are at BiH level in prosecutors and courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14929	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14930	I thought, Mr. Chairman, that there would be no need to get up to talk anymore, that it would be clear, but I can see that things are going in that direction that I think they shouldn't go in, and that's why I'm going to say a few more sentences in the replica now, let's say my distinguished colleague, Lazar Prodanović. Therefore, none of the members of this Parliament can criminally or civilally answer for what they do in connection with the performance of a member of Parliament. At least for what he says and for what he votes for in the way he voted. This is a constitutional principle, and this is a principle that is clearly laid down, not without reason, in the Immunity Act. And I am fully aware, although I do not agree with many colleagues here on many specific issues that are being touched by these letters, so that none of the Members of Parliament can answer criminally or civilly, and that is the highest degree of immunity that exists in this country. I think the Council of Ministers does not have this immunity when it comes to criminal responsibility, but only civil responsibility, the truth now cannot be remembered for the BiH presidency, I would have to take a concrete look at the Immunity Act whether it applies to both of these things. And I, when I spoke to my classmates and colleagues about what I was talking about, did I not say at all whether this Parliament and its members would come under attack or not, can therefore not come, but I was talking about the prosecutor's right to investigate why the Constitutional Court decisions are not being implemented and that, in accordance with the BiH Constitution and the laws of this country, I said - point. I had to say this to explain to you what it meant when I said it – that I am fully aware of the complete, therefore, situation, so it's quite clear to me. And I needed to fill this in right here. Let people do their jobs and let them answer for their jobs, there's a constitution, there's laws, there's a system, and please we all have to behave within that system. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14931	Dear Representative Milorad Živković, vice-president, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14932	I think dear colleague Džaferović that even though you say it in very appropriate terms, you have no good arguments to defend this approach. If we from this House a few months ago ask the same thing, the Prosecutor's Office - how did you treat the cases that were since '97? the years have been, to see if this is precedent regarding the Parliamentary Assembly or whether it has the principled work of the Prosecutor's Office so far. We don't get any answers, so you can't ask us not to comment on the prosecution's work and ask ourselves if it's political pressure on this House. At the same time when you talk about that executive power in this memo is the goal, not Parliament, you wouldn't...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14933	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14934	No, because parliamentarians under the Constitution can't be prosecuted. Parliament should not be asked then to seek out who was in Parliament's assembly, not to be asked for records from the College or to be asked to explain what that means – an adequate solution. As I do not 92 ask to be explained in the Constitution what it means – a high moral lawyer so that he can be a member of the Constitutional Court, etc. etc. So you don't have enough arguments to defend here, although in continuity you defend the judiciary and I respect your position, but in this particular case I think you're in the minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14935	Thank you. Dear representative Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14936	My replica refers to the presentation of my colleague, Džaferović. Well, I'm not surprised at the fact that you're so keenly defending the position of prosecutors and what he wrote, but I'm surprised by your relationship and your approach as our fellow MPs in this House, that you're showing by your discussion that you don't seem to understand absolutely what your intention is in this memo and this attitude of the prosecutor in these writings is to anyone who has delivered it. And teach us a lesson about what protects us as MPs, who are our rights under the Immunity Act and everything else, what are our belongings in that sense, as if we hadn't read it. And it's not at all that anyone here is afraid of being locked up or being listened to by someone from the SIPA or by the prosecutor himself for what we said or voted for, but it's the essential thing for a prosecutor to take, to say, that I know the lady personally and know her because she's from Bijeljina and because I know her and her legal career, and that would like her to be here personally, so that we can talk about it, who dares to set up and represent such acts and things to be brought to Parliament. So it is a fundamental thing that one such person wants to humiliate Parliament and the highest legislative body in this country. That's what this is about, not whether or not the prosecutor has the right to seek, he is, according to what he said and what he wrote, referring to this House of Representatives as the Management Board of an enterprise or firm, so now he needs to examine and comb when someone was in a meeting, what they decided, what they voted for, what they did. I mean it, it's such a humiliating relationship, I have to use that word, although it's not appropriate for this House or this situation, but it's such a humiliating relationship to the highest legislative authority in this country, and I really don't understand that you don't understand, I can't understand that you don't understand what the intention is and what is required of this memo. But you teach us what we are afraid of and whether we can be prosecuted and whether we will respond or not. Well, I don't think we're little children, and respect that fact at least some of us, some of us, for a longer period of time than you in this House, are also an MP and he read the Immunity Act and he knows what his belongings are.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14937	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14938	Well, I don't think that my colleague Džaferović, uh, even implicated what you, colleague Marković, are talking about, but I disagree with his conclusion, it is very clear that, if it wasn't for Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH here is about the system. The prosecution that behaves like this, completely inadequate, completely illiterate, completely, I don't know what word to use, 93 politically blind. It has to work in a way that degrades this country's system and that's what's kind of critical. If it is not clear to anyone that such an approach is, I repeat once again, a completely illiterate approach to one particular, one specific problem not to execute, not to realise the Constitutional Court's decision, de facto and de jure the blow to the very foundations of parliamentary democracy as a political order. I mean, it's impossible, I thought I could walk away from the next session when we're going to have a real, adequate debate on this subject, but I really couldn't keep my mouth shut, not to say this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14939	Thank you. Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14940	To my colleague Džaferović, I do not dispute this and we all know what can be said and in what way in Parliament and how, that cannot be answered. But there's an absurd situation here, that a person, so the prosecutor of the most prosecutorial institution in this country, has taken over as a lawyer. And I'm very glad that my colleague Marković, she's the one I've just heard from right now, can only be a prosecutor in the position of BiH's attorney in the RS prosecutor's office. And he didn't intend to arrest everyone, but at least 1-3.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14941	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14942	So I could say differently now, this Mrs. Marković says – Džaferović is known to advocate the judiciary and this. And you're well-known for insisting on abolishing that judiciary, right, the State and the D.A.'s office. I don't think there's any confusion, is there? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Of course. But please, so I answered for one other thing. You gave us today a correspondence that's a month and a half, two. I first heard there was a correspondence, someone asking for me how I voted, I heard it for the first time, but I don't have that paper you're talking about. I'm getting circumstances... _________(?) 94 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14947	Thank you. I would ask my colleagues and colleagues to listen carefully to our colleagues who have a debate or a replica. Next line, Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14948	I expected all the time that this would be completed in accordance with the intention of continuing the debate next time, but as I see that we are still going towards Kočić and that this country will be all over Kočić one day, whether anyone likes it or not, it will be the way the smart man Petar Kočić predicted. I can't figure out one thing, only to make these people look like liars. So we know what it means when people are killed in a bar and there's whiteness and the prosecutor says, "Give me a list, one of them won't be waiting for dawn in the house tomorrow." Ever since the world and forever, that's how it's been. He never wrote it for nothing, or he's a fool. I mean, about what, I don't understand how someone has the cheeks to defend indefensible. He didn't ask for what we ate, he didn't ask for what kind of ties we wear, he asked for a list. When the D.A. asks for a list, it's a crime scene. He doesn't deal, he's not a model, he's not in the Miss Selection. The man's asking to be arrested. And all his lists, logically he's paid to end these lists by arrest, if they don't finish the arrest, then he doesn't know how to work, then there's a missing case, he's paid for it. We supported and searched for those arrests, not knowing that he wouldn't arrest anyone there but like I wouldn't arrest you. Did anyone, you watched three tickets to Holivud, arrested a number of militias of people and brothers and fathers and mothers and Miki Manojlović in that famous role, all in turn, women, sisters and all, not 95 people wanted to pick up at all, but the easiest way is to, who, by law, listen to the laws so that I can see that something is by law, not by law. If you find in any of the parliaments of the world, I don't think there are any in Africa either, that the prosecutor was looking for a list of members of Parliament in the investigation process, I think who finds it I'll stop talking about. So, he did not ask that in the form of notifications he has the right to not implement decisions of the Constitutional Court, to inquire about what Parliament has done and to follow some sort of sequence of events, he is not looking for a list of members of parliament. It's quite clear why he's looking, because he's probably up to it, so listen, I know some here cheer up probably for internal reasons here, is that what it means for the Court of Justice's verdict in Strasbourg that six or seven leaders will be arrested? Well, isn't it logical, what else is going to happen to them, this is going in that direction, or four or all those who took part? Wait, are we humane to make decisions? Yes, the Court of Strasbourg. I think, in line, that's what he said, what his colleague Kunić said, and finished with what his colleague Franjičević said, is the key. There are people here, there are parallel centers of power here, there are people who don't hold to the state, and they don't think this is the state and they act like it. This is just someone who doesn't think we can write anything. And they don't think we're anything. That's what I think they do. So I can understand speculation, conjecture, but people wrote it as black on white, someone said, Mr. Belkić -- he didn't see it. But Mr. Belkić, you must either say that they are lying or that you really don't believe that they have that paper. I agree that here's what I need him to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14949	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14950	And if you believe, on that paper you're on the list and very, very high, they went, went there to see who was, had ties with the communists, with UDB, with no idea what. So, and then we get into a situation, of course, that members of the Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14951	The time of the honourable representative, it was a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14952	I'm done. Of course, members of the Council of Ministers cannot have that kind of immunity, because we know what and how they vote, and that people in Parliament have a problem with how they vote. And this is a direct, direct pressure in the way Parliament voted unseen in this space, unseen. I'm sure you won't find an example. You have no right to ask anyone how they vote. You must not mention it in any context. Here's the question that we can, that we can and can think about how we're going to vote, next time someone's going to rattle at the entrance and say, look, look, today there's what's mine on Parliament, see how you're going to behave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14953	Thank you. 96 I just want to say to this debate that the six-way wants to shift the focus of decision-making to the institutions of the system. Dear Representative Mladen Bosić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14954	Thank you, Chairman. I think this is not a debate on the prosecution and on issues and correspondence with the tužilaštvo's Office, but a debate on the BiH Parliament in this House on our status, on our self-respect, and we should ask ourselves what we have come into the situation that everyone here can spit on a legitimately elected representative, 42 representatives from all over BiH. The most votes were supposed to be for these people to be MPs here. And why this Dom came into this situation that everyone could shake out at him, so we had a story about the CCI and now we're back to the beginning of the debate. What we talked about was how this House came to be so ugly and our reputation was at that level that it is. Did we deserve it or not? But this is a great opportunity to open a debate about it within us – What should be changed? Why is it such a picture? Who's making that picture? And why did we keep our mouths shut every time anyone came here and said the greatest misdemeanor on any of the members of this House? And for the first time today, we're even getting there, we're getting the courage to say at the CCI point, people stop, you want to crash the system, you want anarchy? The consequence of that story this morning is this story now. These letters are the result of the entire atmosphere and the entire campaign. And it's great to open the story of us here. Well, we're the highest legislative authority. We can change at the next session of the Prosecution Act, not they can question us. They should be questioned if there are crimes and it's all regulated by law. But we have to get our own dignity back. And if I told you one more problem, I might not have it, I'm getting the circumstances, but if I wasn't party president, I would. The story of making decisions like Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci, waiting for someone else to make an agreement, and we only raise our hands here is one part of this story about our status. So this is great, this agenda point is great if they're going to imagine us here and around our position and around our reputation and about the future of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14955	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And before we move to the 20th point, I suggest that the House declare itself that the debate on items 20 to 28 of the agenda is united, as it is a matter of giving consent to ratification of agreements and contracts. And I'm putting this proposal to a statement. Vote now. I find that with 31 votes for, without votes against, without abstentions, we have decided to unify the debate on points 20 to 28. 97 Ad. 20. - 28. Granting consent to ratify the agreement The opinions of the Foreign Affairs Committee responsible have been given to you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate and I'm giving a half-hour break to prepare for the vote. So here's a suggestion from the College, so that's in 20 minutes, half six. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14958	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14959	Individually, okay. We are voting on the amandman and the representative, Aleksandra Pandurević. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that this amendment has not been granted a simple majority and thus has not been adopted. We are voting on amandman ii. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree with 14 for, 20 against, four abstentions also did not get a simple majority of this amendment. We are going to vote on amandman III. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I'm saying 18 for, 19 against, 1 abstention, even this amendment didn't get most of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14960	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14961	We are going to vote on amendments on IV, V and VI in the package. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I'm saying 14 for, 21 against, 3 abstentions these amendments also didn't get a simple majority. We are now voting on the proposal for an amendment by MP Beriz Belkić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree with 14 for, 16 against, and 6 abstentions and amendments to Beriz Belkić did not receive the necessary majority. And now we are voting on the draft law in the second reading with the amendments contained in the report of the competent commission. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I'm finding 17 for, 20 against, 1 abstention, so the law didn't get the required majority, and that's how it's considered rejected. 99 We move to the 6th point – Declaration on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the report on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH or on the suspension of the legislative procedure – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics. We are voting on a modified proposal for the conclusion of the Constitutional Judicial Commission – The deadline for the submission of the report on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH is extended to 6 months. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree, with 35 votes for, without votes against, with two abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, a proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. Moving to point 7. – Statement on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the report on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Proposal Procedure before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina or on the suspension of the legislative procedure – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH. We are voting on a proposal to extend the deadline for the delivery of the report until the next session of the House. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find, with 37 votes for, without votes against, one abstention, with enough entity majority, this proposal has been adopted. We move on to the declaration of point 8. – Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight in the field of defence and security of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: The Joint Defence and Security Commission of BiH (the Second Reading Act). We're voting in the second round on the draft law in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree, for 27 votes against, 11 against, without abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority from the Federation but 11 votes against from the RS entity, this law has not been adopted, this bill has not been passed. Moving to point 9. – Proposal for a law on liability for nuclear damage – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 38 votes in favour, no votes against, no abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, the bill's first reading passed. We're going to point 10. – Report on the activities of the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2012. We are voting on the adoption of the Report with the opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget and the conclusion contained in it. Should I read it? 100 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 38 votes in favour, without votes against, without abstentions, with sufficient entity majority, we adopted the Report. We are now voting on the proposal for the conclusion of representative Dušanka Majkić, the first conclusion. Should I read it? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14964	We're not going in the package. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14965	Okay, the College concludes it's a separate vote. We are voting on the conclusion of the 1st deputy, Dušanka Majkić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 29 votes in favour of, 6 votes against, 3 abstentions, with enough entity majority, we have adopted the conclusion of 1 Dušanka Majkić. We move to a statement on the conclusion of the 2nd representative Dušanka Majkić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that, with 21 votes to, 10 against, 7 abstentions, with enough entity majority, we also adopted the conclusion of 2 MP Dušanka Majkić. We move on to a statement on point 11. – Report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for the period 01.01.2012. - 31.12.2012. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 32 votes to, without votes against, five abstentions, with enough entity majority, we adopted the Attorney General's report. 101 We move to point 12. – Report on the work of the BiH State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2012. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 35 votes to, without votes against, two abstentions, with enough entity majority, we adopted the report. We move on to a statement on point 13. – Report on the work of the Management Board of the BiH Export and Credit Agency for 2012. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 34 votes for, without votes against, one abstention, with enough entity majority, we adopt the Report. We are now voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Should I read it? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You don't have to, okay. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find, with five votes to, 20 against, 12 abstentions, this conclusion has not been given support. Moving to point 14. – Report by the Committee of the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the initiative of Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović from the 42nd session of the House of Representatives, held on 14.02.2013, which reads as follows: “On the basis of Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I refer to the parliamentary initiative that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly discusses obstacles and chances of investing in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that the BiH Council of Ministers prepares the starting material for the debate." We're voting in the second round on the initiative. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 25 votes to 13 against, without abstentions, but with 13 votes against the RS entity, this initiative has not received support. Moving to point 15. – Considering the initiative of representatives of Senad Šepić from the 44th session of the House of Representatives, held on 14.03.2013, which reads the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly tasked the BiH Council of Ministers and the Conference of Ministers of Education of BiH to draw up a detailed guide on the necessary material for each school subject, in accordance with the recommendations of the World Health Organization, according to which the maximum weight of the school bag with accessories and equipment will be limited to 10% of the child's body weight." We're voting on the initiative. 102 Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree, with 25 votes to 13 against, but without enough majority from the RS entity, in the first round this initiative did not receive support. Let's go, then, to the vote in the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree, with 25 votes to 13 against, without abstentions, but with 13 votes against the RS entity, this initiative has not received support. Point 16 shall not be voted on because it has been decided to refer to the committee responsible. The same applies to point 17. I would suggest that this proposal, too, is discussed by counterpart Belkić, if Belkić agrees?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14967	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-04-18-0.u14968	Okay. Moving to point 18. – The appointment of the Ad hoc committee for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the BiH Regulatory Agency (scheduled debate at the 46th session of the House, held on 28.03.2013).). We are voting on a proposal for a decision to establish the Ad hoc commission. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 31 votes against, 6 votes against, 1 abstention, with enough entity majority, we have reached a decision on the establishment of the Ad hoc commission. Moving to point 19. – Information on the letters of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina (in accordance with the conclusion of the Joint College of the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from the 19th session, held on 16 April 2013.). We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Milorad Živković. Should I read it? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 35 votes to, 1 vote against, 2 abstentions, with enough entity majority, this conclusion has been adopted, which means that the debate is delayed until the next session. 103 We move to the declaration of points 20 to 28. First, I put the motion to vote on points 20 to 28. We're making a statement in the package. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 36 votes for, without votes against, 1 abstention, with enough entity majority, we have decided to declare ourselves in the package on points 20 to 28. And now we vote on giving consent to ratifying agreements and contracts. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 38 votes in favour, without votes against, with sufficient entity majority, we have given consent to ratifying agreements and contracts. My colleagues and fellow MPs, since by Easter which is celebrated on the Julian calendar, and all Orthodox people of course, we will not have meetings, so here I am congratulating Easter from this place to all the believers who celebrate it on the Julian calendar, especially our fellow Orthodox. I'm closing the 47th session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next session is scheduled for 23 May 2013. Thank you for your cooperation. Session completed at 6:05 p.m.
