ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-0.u3859	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, of course representatives of the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 35th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 12 delegates, of whom 3 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 4 from Serbia. Delegates, Mr. Tihić, Mr. Bećirović and Mr. Ivanic are not able to attend the session for justified reasons. For the 35th session, I propose the next Agenda 1. The request of the National College to discuss the Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014, following an urgent procedure delivered by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the House of Peoples. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. Since there are no reports and no amendments and no amendments to the agenda have been adopted and will not be voted on in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. People's College's request to discuss the Pre-law on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014, following an urgent procedure delivered by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives At its 42nd session, held on 30.12.2013, he decided to propose that the draft law on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2014 be considered by an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122 and Article 123(3). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. The House of Representatives passed the Bill on the Budget of BiH and BiH's 2 international commitments for 2014 with a total of 85 amendments that form an integral part of the text of the Law and delivered it to the House of Peoples for further consideration. I'm opening a discussion. Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go. Mr. Genjac has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-0.u3861	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, this is the decision of the College members representing the parliamentary majority who were present and who decided to propose that Budget be adopted by emergency procedure, just so we know what that means. So, adoption of the Budget by emergency procedure is a message that the House of Nations has nothing to talk about. So the message is that the House of Nations has nothing to say about such a significant document as the Budget. Of course, that's one small part of the problem. The other part of the problem is the message that the presidency has nothing to talk about, and the Council of Ministers doesn't have much to talk about Budget either. What we heard at the House of Representatives is that two or three people in this country are solving budget problems. Of course, that seems so, but those two or three should take full responsibility for all that is needed for the decision on the political scene in BiH and what will follow with this approach to Budget. For these reasons, of course, by respecting and respecting my opinion that this House should also speak, I will be against an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-0.u3862	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. There are no more applications for discussion. We are voting on the procedure, therefore, on whether or not the draft law will be considered by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please initiate the voting system. Thank you. Out of those 12 -- 9 delegates were in favour, against 3, from the Federation of BiH 6 to, 2 against, from RS 3 to and 1 against. There is a general majority, there is an entity and I find that the request for a review of the Bill on Budgets of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2014 was adopted after an emergency procedure. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Who's answering for a word? Here you go. Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-0.u3863	Thank you. When I was just saying there was a message that this House didn't really need to talk about Budget, I was talking about the fact that we got this Budget five minutes ago. And now three of us are in a position to plead whether or not we are in favour, without the possibility of correction or anything else. That's the consequence of the decision to adopt Budget by emergency procedure, but I'm saying it's a majority decision. But at least some 80 amendments were adopted which were interventions on the Budget and it is very difficult to present now, i.e. a brief synthesis of what these changes meant and what they represent. But I would still ask a representative of the Council of Ministers for two things that I am interested in, other than what was in public these days, and certainly present as a problem for the Budget. Therefore, on the basis of the amendment proposed, Article 8, the new Article 8, which says for the first time in the Budget Act, clarifies the title – Credits for the uncovered deficit, and the position says – if the surplus is too high, will be covered. However, Article 2 says – if the funds of the Article 1 stand, so if there is no surplus income over expenditure, which is not enough to cover the deficit of the Council of Ministers' Council of BiH will initiate a procedure for the conclusion of a loan contract to cover the deficit maximum of up to 15,236.000 KM if the excess expenditure on revenues is achieved in 2014. The position of the 4th member says – The Ministry of Finance and the Treasury is obliged to establish justification for the launch of the procedure referred to in Article 2 no later than 10 February 2015. Now I notice that for the first time in the Budget Act, there is an opportunity for institutions to borrow credit and write it strictly in the Law. Of course, the consequences of that can be assumed. However, either the chairman-in-Office of the Council or the Council of Ministers and the one who proposed this amendment would ask why 15,000,000 and why, by 10 February 2015, to initiate the procedure for the credit responsibility of the institutions? And I think why the credit responsibility of the institutions, to explain this. The second thing I would also like to explain is that Article 13 which has now become Article 14 introduces a new position 2 which says that the Council of Ministers will, by special decision, delegate the powers of the chairman and vice-president for internal use 4% of the amount of the current reserve shown in the schedule of revenue by budget users, Table 3 and the allocation of funds will be based on criteria individually established by the chairman and vice-chair of the Council of Ministers. On the side of technical misunderstandings, in Budget content we only have a table that says – budget users' budget expenditure schedule, and here we are talking about the revenue schedule for budget users. I haven't seen a table like that in Budget. But here, if you take that from this table, that's some of the approximately, the reserves that are planned to be close to 4,000 KM. Now one question, to be clear, does this mean, since the chairman and vice presidents have been given the right to intervene 4%, does all of them have a total of 4% of the reserves? And since it writes here – the allocations will be made on the basis of the criteria individually established by the chairman and vice-president, does this mean that each of these three establish their own criteria for the allocation of these funds, because that's what it says here? So, everyone will decide on what criteria will they do and share? So, first of all, I'm interested in whether it's 4% for all of them, and does that mean that each of them individually decides how to divide these funds, because for the first time in the law, we have that patent? I mean, there's been this practice sometimes, but the law says that everyone's going to decide how they want to share budgets, it's the first time that patent's applied. And yet let's get this straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-30-0.u3864	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. 4 There is no one reported by colleagues or colleagues anymore. The promoter, or representatives of the ministry and the Council of Ministers, has no need to comment. Given the fact that there are no more registered votes, we are voting on the Bill on the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2014 in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please initiate voting mechanisms. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present - 9 delegates were in favour, 3 were against, no one was abstentioned. The Federation of BiH 6 was against, 2 against, no one was abstentioned, from RS 3 for, 1 against, and no one was abstentioned. There's a general majority and there's an entity majority. I find that the Budget Law has been adopted by the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2014. This concludes today's work and, of course, this year's work. For all of you, your families, I wish in 2014 a lot of health, success and happiness. Cheers and thanks. Session completed at 16.40.
