ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13872	I ask my colleagues and colleagues to take their seats and that we may begin the session. According to my display we have a quorum, we even have the entity majority enough. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 43rd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Our regular guests, the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies, who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the media, were invited to attend the meeting. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The absence was justified by a representative, Amir Fazlić. According to the information service, the session is attended by 33 MPs and I agree that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the change of session agenda, I would like to point out that we added item 3 to the agenda. – The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on an indirect taxation system in BiH by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-10/13 of 20.02.2013. tačka 4. – The request of Representatives Saša Magazinović, Senad Šepić, Mirsad Đugum, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović and Beriz Belkić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on Single Parent Number by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-13/13 of 27.02.2013. Point 5 has been removed from the previous agenda. – Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight in the field of BiH's defence and security, Proposer: The Joint Defence and Security Commission of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-48/12 of 29.11.2012, second reading. It was taken off at the request of the Joint Committee. The college extended the deadline for the delivery of the report until the next session of the House. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. A respected representative, Beriz Belkić, applied for the debate. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13873	Very short. So point 11 was to agree on the proposal for a conclusion proposed by Azra Hadžiahmetović. Of course, I understand and this is the practice that has been so far, I understand that the College had no other choice but to put it on the agenda. But when we have a situation where the alignment doesn't make any sense anymore, if it doesn't happen on the spot, or if it doesn't happen at a session that, where it has influence. I no longer see purposes practically what is achieved and that you have reached agreement, the practical vote has been postponed. It would be good if, at least in the meantime, the service had checked and alleged that there were two laws in the procedure, etc. So I reported most of all to try to avoid such situations through the Rules of Procedure, to oblige the College to agree immediately on the point where it comes to such a matter of nature, to lose meaning if it is not done at that session. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13874	Thank you. I would ask the Secretary of the House to brief the honourable representative and Parliament on this issue he has raised here. So, the service checked.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13875	I welcome you all. As far as I'm concerned, the conclusion is, the conclusion has gone to agree. The college didn't achieve consent. Today's vote is in the second round on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament of Azra Hadžiahmetović. As for the law, we are at the College, or the College, considered the information prepared by the Professional Service. It is the following – currently in the procedure means there are no two laws, there are no two laws. The reason is that the law that was in the procedure once by emergency procedure, as an emergency request by the Council of Ministers, and it was the high representative's law, was then rejected. Since the law cannot go into a shortened procedure, it cannot go into the basic legislative procedure, the law is considered to be rejected by the High Representative without amendments and additions and without any conditions. The High Representative's decision remained in force and was announced, so it remains in force in "The Official Voice" and is still in force. And this law delivered by the Council of Ministers, the processor of the Justice Ministry, does not treat at all a member, or position that was then imposed by a high representative. So the point is, we only have one criminal code in the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13876	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13877	I thank the secretary. 3 So the bottom line is, if I understand correctly, that the laws imposed by the High Representative cannot be adopted except by an emergency procedure. So there's no procedure. Only then did you have to tell us that day and we'd do the job.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13878	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion and I find that the 43rd session of the House has the next Agenda 1. Approval of the minutes of the 42nd session of the House of Representatives; 2. Representative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law supplementing the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-10/13 of 20.02.2013; 4. The request of Representatives Saša Magazinović, Senad Šepić, Mirsad Đugum, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović and Beriz Belkić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on Single Parent Number by Rapid Procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-13/13 of 27.02.2013; 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Institute for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-47/12 of 28.11.2012. (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-213 of 09.01.2013. (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Procedure, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-7/13 of 30.01.2013. (First Reading); 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Proposal Procedure before the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-8/13 of 05.02.2013. (first reading); 9. Report by the Joint Committee on the achievement of agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters; 10. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a law on property management temporarily and permanently withdrawn in criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice of BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-54/12 of 28.12.2013. (law in first reading); 11. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Azra Hadžiahmetović's representative for the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedures of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the proposal: the Council of Ministers of BiH, which reads: "A statement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina is postponed. The College and the Secretary of Parliament's House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH are tasked to give an interpretation of the 4 circumstances currently contained in the House of Representatives two texts of the same law in different variants (one of which represents the adoption of the text of the law declared by the High Representative for BiH).’; 12. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the initiative of MP Denis Bećirović from the 40th session of the House of Representatives, held on 03.01.2013, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly (“the Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 33/06, 41/06, 81/06, 91/06, 91/07, 87/09 and 28/12), I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to prepare appropriate legal solutions for the establishment of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Environment Agency in 2013" (an initiative discussed at the 42nd session of the House, held on 14.02.2013.; 13. A report from a workshop on the subject: "The Defence and Security Sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina – a year later", with a proposal for a conclusion, the materials of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-1182/12 of 25.01.2013; 14. Report on the implementation of the Action Plan for the application of UNSC Resolution No. 1325 "Wifes, Peace and Security" in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 27/07/11 to 27/07/2012, the Council of Ministers' material, issue: 01/6-37-52/13 from 15.02.2013; 15. The appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the ranking of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, number: 01,02-34-1-1374/12 of 13.12.2012. (scheduled statement at the 42nd session of the House, held on 14.02.2013); 16. Appointment of a member of the Governing Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Broadcasting Service from the ranks of the BiH Regulatory Agency, issue: 01,02-34-1-231/13 of 18.02.2013. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 42nd session of the House of Representatives You've won the 42nd session record. Any objections, supplementals? There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. And we're going to point two, Ad. 2. Representative questions (a) Comments on answers received
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13881	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, this issue that I have received, which is very important for all BiH citizens, because it concerns our life, therefore, general aero pollution in certain areas where the highest concentration of all possible and impossible pollutants of our environment has been shown. I focused on what you all know very well, so on the Sarajevo cauldron and the female cauldron where it is most pronounced and where it is very, very worrying effect. Unfortunately, the usual practice of all of our parliamentary questions is that we are the only one in response to what we have said, so that's what happened with this. No decadent answer to that, when will it simply stop poisoning citizens in these areas that have reached, say worrying figures? You ladies and gentlemen sitting in this House, probably some of you live in a Sarajevo cauldron here and some of you, like me, live in a female cauldron and you know very well what it is and what I'm talking about. Unfortunately, there is no concrete answer to the question asked. In other words, it's easy to say, keep poisoning, we don't have a solution. It's a shame and it's a disgrace. If nothing else, at least for generations to come. It is unfortunate that every newborn child in the city of Sarajevo, in the area of the town of Kaknja and in the area of the town of Zenica, automatically has all the predisposition to not experience the biological time that was determined by birth itself, to suffer from some and most severe disease, or to die much earlier than it should be in normal conditions. If we just think about it, then we all have to worry. This solution must be found. Spring is coming, pollution is getting smaller, because this is the most happening in those most critical winters. Let's find a solution by the next winter, at least save a part of the generations we can save. And we, who are already poisoned enough, no one can save us anymore. Thank you very much. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13882	Thank you. Honourable representative Danijela Martinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13883	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have come to comment on the answer I received from the Department of Irregular Taxation, although I find it very difficult to comment on an answer that I didn't even get. The letter states that we have forwarded your question to the Board of Directors for indirect indirect taxation, to which we have not always received an answer, and in the signature of Mr. Džakula. I know that Mr. Džakula is not a management, but it is a little unserious to say that they sent the letter to themselves and they didn't get the answer. So, I'd like to make sure that I get an answer to that question as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13884	Thank you. Dear Representative Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13885	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, so I realized that he had an answer to one of these two questions, so I hope I won't make a mistake if I comment on the question I referred to the Ministry of Security. At the same time, I would like to ask a further question about this comment. So, the decision to determine the so-called. parking spaces for restrictions on the transport of dangerous substances or substances in a public place, the Ministry of Transport of Croatia of 05.10.2012, determined that dangerous substances of Class 1 can be transported by highway and precisely they said it was Bregana- Zagreb-Slavonski Brod-Bajakovo, etc. That is, the exit with the state border of Stara Gradiška, as they say, the Okućani. Therefore, the BiH Ministry of Security's decision to determine the Gradin crossing in Jesenovac, and the ban on traffic across the Gradiška border crossing, is practically premature because Croatia's side of 05.10.2012, set for the crossing of Gradiška, and BiH's transition has set for Gradin. So the only link between those two border crossings is the riverbed. I guess that's the only way for the goods that are on the one hand to cross Gradiška, and on the other hand, determined to cross Jesenovac, could cross into the neighbouring country, and it's export goods. So far, it is wrong to interpret that the crossing of Jesenovac-Gradina is open to transport dangerous substances, because it cannot practically accept the Croatian side, but rather the goods that are subject to inspection supervision, which is not the same. So, the BiH Ministry of Security's view that there is no obstacle to the traffic of explosives across the Jesenovac-Gradiška border crossing is an obstacle, so it has as long as the decision of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Transport of the Republic of Croatia is in force. I can also read here the 7th number, but it is better to write it and give the service the number under which the Ministry of Transport of Croatia has so determined. The Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia will not allow the transfer of these goods to the Jesenovac-Gradin border crossing. So this is one example where the Ministry of Security in all possible ways prevents business entities from using primarily exporting at border crossings that are close to them. So all three crossings towards Croatia between BiH and Croatia, which allow the transport of explosives, are in the Federation, i.e. Orasje, Izačić and Kamensko. Practically Gradiška is skillfully obstructed, so that manufacturers from Republika Srpska cannot export goods to Zagreb, and is far away buying them transport in these other directions. Here's to conclude, starting with these facts, I ask the BiH Ministry of Security to look at all these facts, and I will deliver this in writing, to inform me of the measures it intends to take, in order to address this issue positively for business entities dealing with this type of goods exported to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13886	Thank you, let's move on to a) New Agents' Issues and of course, here is my attention that we can ask it in writing, but also verbally. Dear Representative Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13887	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. A very short question on behalf of the SDA Club addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers – When will the BiH Council of Ministers ensure that the contents of BiH's official messengers are free of charge to all BiH citizens? This is also our legal obligation, we had more initiatives in this sense, but here is how today, BiH citizens cannot have full representation and cannot have full access to all decisions and everything published in "The Official Messenger of BiH". So I think the Council of Ministers should take this matter seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13888	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13889	Question for the Chairman of the Council of Ministers or Council of Ministers – Please give me a definition or description of the so-called The coordination mechanism, often mentioned today, with a specific aspect of the following: On what basis is it established, a decision, a conclusion, a legal act, an agreement or a recommendation from the European Commission? Who makes the structure of this coordination mechanism, how does it function and decide, how has his relationship with official institutions been regulated and finally how much is it cost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13890	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13891	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I welcome you all. For today, I have one initiative and one parliamentary question. The initiative is addressed to the House of Representatives, which would allow BiH citizens to monitor the session of the Assembly's House of Representatives through a state-run TV broadcaster starting on 01 March 2013. And the parliamentary issue of the entity and cantonal health ministries – Do the competent health departments have information on how many citizens as registered patients are waiting for operations abroad, what kind of diseases and individual costs are they talking about, and finally with February 2013? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13892	Thank you. Dear Representative Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13893	I thank the Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all together. I will take this opportunity to ask the questions I did not get an answer again, the questions asked on the 7th, 8, 13, 35th and 39th session of the House of Representatives. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13894	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13895	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I asked a simple question three or four months ago. I asked the opportunity – Is it true that a certain number of public companies do not pay contributions in general, including health insurance? As I have not received an answer today, here I publicly declare that I no longer need the answer, because I read the confirmation in the media the other day that health insurance funds are empty because public companies don't pay for the contributions. So here I am calling on this occasion, since I have no other opportunity for the prosecution in this country to determine, because it's a criminal offence, who approved it, based on what regulations and who questioned the functioning of this very important system? And for today, I'm going to ask a question that has been offered among other things and some of the answers at yesterday's session, where we heard that the Council of Ministers has decided to go to certain initiatives when it comes to some kind of minimal one of the very vulnerable sectors, and that because of the fact that some Governing Board disagrees or that a person in the Management Board disagrees, there is nothing. I, like all of you, here's by following the overall situation in BiH I have found, and it seems more than obvious to me, that in all areas of social life we are recording more than negative trends. I'm just going to try to count a couple, even though this is a minimum number, because the paper is limited. So we heard yesterday that foreign and direct investments are more than symbolic, and the domestics are almost gone. The coverage of exports has been reduced to a symbolic plane and the external trade deficit is more than unbearable. The number of employees has been dropping continuously for several years. Intrinsic indifference calls into question the functioning of the real sector at all. Many important funds, among other things here health funds are empty, so we question the provision of essential health services to the population. Taxes per employee are almost two-thirds per employee compared to net wage, which has already become unbearable for the few workers, i.e. the real sector that works. I've already said that public companies don't make legal contributions. And what is common is general depression and imperceptibility in the country. That is why I am asking the Council of Ministers, the Government of the Federation of BiH, the Government of the RS and the governments of all 10 cantons in BiH. The question is: Does any of these governments, as well as the Council of Ministers, do anything to stop negative trends? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13896	Thank you. 10 Dear Representative Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13897	Mr. Chairman, allow me to greet you, all present and you. I am also teaching four parliamentary questions on behalf of the SDP Club, and Mrs Zaimović-Uzunović, Mr Domazet, Magazinović and mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13898	Thank you. Reputed representative Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13899	Dear President, honourable MPs. My parliamentary question concerns the current affair that still shakes the country in connection with the emergence of M1 alphaoxin in milk imported from Croatia. As you know, in addition to monitoring domestic production, certain principles are carried out, and the monitoring of import consignments is carried out where, if the increased quantities of certain harmful substances of the following 10 consignments are determined, they are being investigated, as a consequence of the inability to place the written notes concerned on the market until they are obtained at the limits of the regulatory results and the analysis of the same. As the public and the known results of a laboratory study of milk originating in Croatia indicated the concentration of alfatoxin M1. [[Common discussion]] Excuse me, may I finish my question, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13901	I'm sorry, so I'm asking distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs to refrain from talking in...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13902	... Therefore, as the public is aware, the results of a laboratory study of milk originating in Croatia indicated the concentration of alphaoxin M1 that exceeds the maximum levels prescribed by the rules on maximum quantities for certain contaminants in food. [[You don't understand.]] In fact, a border veterinary inspector at the Gradiška border crossing on 28.12. received a quantity that was routinely analysed, sent to Belgrade for testing where critical values of the M1 alphaoxin were found. Since it is a visotoxic agent, the results of the analysis were, after all these procedures, received at the BiH Veterinary Office on 29.01.2013, from which 11 clearly showed an increased amount of alphatoxin in the sample examined compared to the maximum levels allowed. The Veterinary Office was immediately informed on 29.01.2013, which was also notified by the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Croatia, the Veterinary Authority of the non-compliance of the consignments caused, and informed that the next 10 shipments would be kept in the importer's warehouses until laboratory findings were obtained. It's a legal category and obligation. It was also on 30.01.2013 that all the entity inspection offices were informed, as well as on 01.02. A food safety agency which, under its legal authority, is required to alert the public immediately about the occurrence of alphaoxin in milk. Also, additional information on samples taken at the Bihac crossing, based on a blind attempt at laboratories in Zagreb and Vienna, proved the presence of the mentioned substance. Regardless of the extremely carcinogenic action of the unauthorized concentrations of M1 alphaoxin found, the public with this problem was only familiar with this problem on 8 February 2013, both in BiH and in the Republic of Croatia and only afterwards was the ban imposed on imports of all these types of shipments from the Republic of Croatia. Although one great one was created, I would say, a media hack where in some way tried to amnesty all the activities of our agencies that are...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13903	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13904	I'm asking a few questions that are very important to me as a doctor. Why did the public in BiH not until 08.02.2013, 10 days after the first uncoordinated results, find out about the milk of the manufacturer Windi and Dukat and the findings of the illicit concentrations of the M1 alphaoxin? Whose interests were protected by state institutions or by the heads of state institutions, the BiH Veterinary Office and the BiH Food Safety Agency, which is the point of contact for a rapid alert system in the event of an invalid food market finding? Are the interests of imported lobbies or the health of domestic consumers being protected in a specific case? And I finally have to say that it is unserious, I can say, a bold statement from the BiH Food Safety Agency that states that it is small quantities that cannot endanger human health or that it can if it consumes a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13905	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13906	And just last – Why is it trying to hide from the public the existence of recorded risks to consumer health even though there is a legal obligation to report it immediately, and why do the entities in business with food, in accordance with the Food Act, not act as prescribed and why do they seek to hide at all costs the malfunction of the products that appear and which they trade with? I refer the issue to the BiH Veterinary Office and the BiH Food Safety Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13907	Thank you. And once again, I ask the honourable MPs and MPs to stick to our business hours, because when the session continues, then the focus actually falls. Dear Representative Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13908	Mr. Chairman. I'll have a shorter one, and the doctor and I will be in the package for a while. I have an initiative short. I propose that the Council of Ministers prepare and submit within 60 days to Parliament the Fiscal Responsibility Act in BiH. I'm not going to explain this specifically. So practice has shown in many countries of the region that this was the key, as some of the problems that we have here have, to bring to some healthy norm. The second is the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments in BiH – Please provide me with information on the implementation of the Social Insurance Agreement, the Agreement on the avoidance of Double Taxation between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia, and on the protection and rights of foreign workers in Slovenia with an emphasis on BiH citizens. I'm not going to read the argument here right now. This will be in the accompanying act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13909	Thank you. Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović. Here you go. _________(?) He's gone. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13911	Thank you. I question the Prime Minister of the Federation of BiH and the Parliament of the Federation of BiH – Are any activities being carried out to adopt new features of the Federation of BiH, coat of arms and flags? Reason: The Federation of BiH currently has no coat of arms and flags, which is not in accordance with the Constitution, because the Constitution says the Federation has a coat of arms and a flag. And because of the fact that the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court has now declared the same unconstitutional because they did not contain a symbolism that characterizes the identity of the Serb people. The activities were in the previous mandate of the Assembly and the House of Peoples, however they were not completed, so I am curious whether any activities are being carried out now because it is necessary to complete this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13912	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13913	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, I would have to ask one question to the Institute of Measurement in BiH. Here's fellow Kabil said that, so BiH is shaking this one fever when it comes to milk and the quality of milk and milk composition, I'm going to ask a question to the BiH Monitoring Institute, because these days it was in the media, and earlier than a month ago I asked the Federal Inspection, meaning the question when it's in the oil quality market, it means on the market in BiH, so it came out in one of the media, whether all the gas stations or gas stations, it means they have unquality fuel. I've got the whole lab report here, because it's mostly fueled, whether it's increased amounts of sulfur and a lot of water, so our vehicles are probably going to minus five, so it's not going to work if we pour fuel on a lot of these pumps. And in the Federation of BiH, we have such a system that, so these legal entities can ask who will control their fuel, unlike the RS, where there is a competent inspection, the competent authorities of the administration, means to determine who will control whom the fuel is, and here in us, wishes are met. And, of course, if someone writes to you that your fuel isn't quality and yet don't give it to Bog if it goes public, that this control house or that agency or that lab is out of work, which is evident. But the additional problem here also introduces this BiH Monitoring Institute, which is under the law, when it was formed which brought the OHR 10 years ago, is only authorized to issue licences, and this Institute of Measurement is working and monitoring and verifying, whether, authorized laboratories and only on one part of the Federation. In RS, it is not by chance, nor in the small part of BiH, which is more solid or rocky, which is in Herzegovina, but this up to Ivana Mountain here, is it, Canton Sarajevo. And so the inputs... the big mess, because it means surveillance and verification are exclusively in the jurisdiction of the entity of these monitoring institutes. 14 And behold, I am setting up, so, according to the law, what is their duty and their obligation to do? If it is their responsibility to do surveillance and verification, why don't they do so in the entire BiH area and why do they only do so in the space of one part of the Federation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13914	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13915	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Tourism is a branch that is of paramount importance, when it comes to BiH, especially in these areas, winter tourism makes a significant contribution to the development of the economy, and above all I think of the Olympic mountains Bjelašnica and Jahorina. For these reasons winter tourism is much more complex than tourism of Banjski, sea etc., because it depends on many factors, whether there is snow, it is much more expensive etc. And it's harder to attract guests. My question is to ask the Ministry of Defence because the building on Jahorina which is, it is being conducted at the Ministry of Defence in the last war is ruined, but it creates a very ugly picture, and since they own that property, my question is being addressed to them – when will remove the building on Jahorna which was destroyed in the past war and now creates a very ugly picture on the Olympic mountain. I'm asking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13916	Thank you. Dear Representative Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13917	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. So the question and the request. So, we are at a session of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, which unfortunately is very often seen in the way it is, some perception is created, as this is not a particularly important commission, and we, in the Commission itself, think it is important. And I would especially try to, here, refer to this part of the discussion that my colleague Kabil had with regard to toxic substances present today very publicly and the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission has asked the College of the House of Representatives to inform the Council of Ministers, and it would be logical that the Council of Ministers themselves is without our request, as soon as possible in view of the public news in relation to toxic substances especially in milk, to inform the House of Representatives and to submit one information that would be practically official and public and which could be used by both the official public media and all others regarding the problems that arise around, hence toxins that occur in the food of plant and animal origin. 15 Since this is an opportunity for a parliamentary question, I believe that we will not miss the first opportunity, and therefore, with a reminder that there is a conclusion of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, and I have in some way also a commitment, I am grateful to my colleagues that we have come together to conclude that, therefore, there is a product in the matter of health law that would contain one of the other information, so here I am specifically asking that this issue be immediately put to the consideration in the Council of Ministers, when it comes to products that are legally required to be controlled, whether it is domestic or imported products, then products that are controlled, refers to domestic and import products, then to the quantity allowed and actual quantities in certain foods. Next, to report on the time obligation of control, then the reliability of individual controls due to the technical equipment of the laboratory, which was discussed by fellow Members here. Finally, the way to inform responsible persons and the public about the findings and other data that are relevant to the health of the population. All these are written in the conclusions of the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission. I am also taking this opportunity, so I have no need to deliver a special parliamentary question since this type of report is addressed to the House of Representatives. But here is a good opportunity to once again, because I do not see from the Council of Ministers that there is a great interest in MPs' questions, so I hope that at least on these written issues and the need to make this issue a priority in BiH, given that it is, whether we want it or not, every day there will be a public presence. It would be good to at least get timely and correct information from the competent institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13918	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13919	I thank the chairman. My question is to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, more to the Health Sector. What has been done so far: 1. Planning, coordination and monitoring and allocation of funds to priority sectors is meant by prevention, promotion, primary health care, secondary and physical health care in BiH? 2. Is it also how much has been done so far to develop the Human Resources Management Strategy in the BiH health sector? 3. What has been done so far to develop the Health Protection Sector Strategy in BiH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13920	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Kunić. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13921	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to send a letter to the Ministry of Education and Culture of the Republic of Slovenia. The question is – At what stage is the report on the audit of private higher education institutions, the University of RS? When will the report be presented to the public? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13922	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13923	The issue concerns the Council of Ministers, and I am interested in the duration of the second month of February 2013 – How much milk has been withdrawn from sales and how has it been taken care of, or removed from BiH?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13924	Thank you. There are no more applications to ask questions. I want only here to give the opportunity of distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović was not when it was a parliamentary issue, so he can deliver it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13925	I delivered the chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13926	Okay. Thank you very much. We close the two agendas and move on to point three, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law supplementing the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure The BiH Council of Ministers delivered the draft law on 20.02.2013 with a request for a preliminary procedure. You got the bill. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13928	Just for a moment, I want to say that this is probably the first of the laws that are in line with the six-person agreement, namely the SNSD and SDP leaders' initiative adopted by the other six-man leaders, to be at the ministerial or so on. operational executives at the Indirect Taxation Board define the term of office of 4 years with the possibility of a further renewal of the mandate and that it is logical that, given that it is a legal solution that is not complex, but that only a change of one legal provision is treated, I think it would be logical to accept that the law goes in an emergency procedure and accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13929	Thank you. I just want to point out that it was a political agreement and an ex-six in that sense. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13930	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. I understand the need to implement the political agreement of this new parliamentary majority, and here's the old one, if I may say so, but I think it went wrong. There have been several initiatives in the past, and here in this mandate, to amend the Law on the indirect taxation system which would correct this law, which would in fact give Parliament and the Council of Ministers more jurisdiction than the Management Board of the Directorate for indirect taxation, as well as the director himself, or the management of the Directorate for indirect taxation. Therefore, we are concerned, here as a Club of Representatives, that it actually intervenes on this law only in terms of staff solutions or opening up the possibility of changing assistant directors and directors of the Directorate for indirect taxation. Therefore, the Club of Representatives will oppose the adoption of such a legal solution regardless of what is part of it, here is the political agreement of the new parliamentary majority. That's nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13931	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13932	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's... what Mr. Mehmedović was talking about, just to add that maybe a little bit of this explanation was written in one reckless way where he's literally saying that the work of the Directorate for indirect taxation in this kind of organisational sense was illegal and it didn't give sufficient effect, I don't think these things in the arguments of legal solutions should stand. But 18 I want to point out one more essential thing here. So everything that relates to the functioning of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, and the subject of the amendment in a legal sense, has so far been necessary to deliver to us the opinion of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority. So, at this point in time on this legislative amendment, we don't have the opinion of the Direct Taxation Authority and it is clear that the motion that the ruling majority at that time have the need to have full control over the functioning of the system so that it can carry out and control the work of the Administration. In fact, even one part of the independence of the administration that exists at this point and is not related to purely political action, in some ways disappears by adopting this legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13933	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to item four of the agenda, Ad. 4. The request of Representatives Saša Magazinović, Senad Šepić, Mirsad Đugum, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović and Beriz Belkić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on Single Parent Number by Rapid Procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure The draft law was submitted on 27.02.2013 with a request for a preliminary examination. You got the bill. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13935	Dear chairman, co-chairing, colleagues and fellow MPs, dear guests, I warmly welcome you all. I will very briefly explain this Law on my own behalf and on behalf of colleagues Šepić, Đugum, Lijanović and Belkić, as colleagues with whom I signed this Law together. Therefore, it is known to everyone that the Constitutional Court in Case U-3/11 has taken the decision to Article 5. The law does not comply with the Constitution. We, unfortunately, don't want to go into the reasons why, we haven't implemented that verdict so far, which resulted in a constitutional court ruling that puts this member of the law out of force, and you know, if anything through the media you're familiar with, what does that mean in practice. This means that newborn children cannot obtain a single birth number because of the placing out of force of this Article of the Law, thus neither achieving health care nor other rights attached to a single home number. The law in front of you is not complex. It is fully in line with the Constitutional Court's ruling, and that is why we suggested that it go according to emergency procedure. I would like to point out that we have received information 19 that colleague Krstan Simić, a delegate in the House of Peoples of BiH, has proposed this Law, even before us, but we really didn't know about this fact until yesterday afternoon. But we don't see any problem in this as proponents, given that these two laws are essentially the same. The only thing they differ in is technical nature, which is that my colleague Simić, I believe, accidentally made a mistake with two municipalities in the Federation, is the municipalities of Foča and Pala. So, the Foča in the Federation is called Foca-Usticolina, and Pale is called Pale-Prača-Prazza. So, that's the only difference in these two laws, and here I don't think there's any need to further elaborate this law, that we're all clear and sincerely hoping that we're going to apply for an emergency procedure, to adopt this law, and thus solve this problem that is in fact in the field, which I've already talked about, as far as the issue of parent numbers is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13936	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13937	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I was yesterday when I heard that this part of the agenda was going to be, and then I started to deal with all of this, and then I was actually startled that there were three initiatives on the same subject. I saw that on February 22nd, the Ministry of Civil Affairs referred the proposal to the Council of Ministers and had previously received the agreement of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance on the bill and the law should be adopted today at the Council of Ministers. Then I saw that on December 26th, this is the date on which counterpart Krstan Simić of the House of Peoples also referred the proposal for a law amending the Law on Single Parent Number. And finally, as the highlight of 27.02., a proposal is coming today on the agenda of these motionaries that you said. So in a situation like this, when practically laws on the same topic come together, I really don't think there's any point in working this way or there's had to be a little more coordination between the Council of Ministers and Parliament. And I think that's the key reason why we shouldn't accept that the law goes by emergency procedure. We need to see what this proposal is, in fact, dealing with the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which will adopt the Council of Ministers and that only after that we make a decision, fully aware of what it means that we still do not have such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13938	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13939	Here's one, let me say, from the co-proposer of this law, just a few words about the justification of an emergency procedure request, we're discussing a request for a procedure. So, the thing is really urgent, because every moment and every moment, so to speak, people get in trouble all over BiH. And I think that we need to get the strength to get out of the context of total relations, when it comes to the Law on Citizenship, home number, residence, etc., that's not controversial. We can fight and outwit these things without a problem and after this, but I think the situation for each of us is such that we should think carefully about today by doing or by doing what it does in practice. I, my key motive was, I don't want to be part of the mechanisms that put people in a situation that I can't put the child's birth number in. So, in this act today, we are not making it impossible for us to continue the political struggle, the outwitting of essential things. I've spoken before, we'd really have to agree here, make a practice, when it comes to the decisions of the Constitutional Court not to... experience but to implement them as they are literally. So we've already had practice that on several occasions, regardless of different structures, different political parties and so on. including mine, we've been trying to expand those decisions. Obviously, that's what's causing the problem, we have to agree, in my opinion, that we're carrying them out and nothing else. I urge that we adopt this today by emergency procedure, emergency procedure and pass the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13940	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13941	Dear counterpart Beriz Belkić, what you said couldn't have been denied a single word that on April 19th of last year, this law that was scheduled didn't fall in the House of Representatives and you were one of those who voted against. So to accuse someone now because they won't raise their voice quickly for an emergency procedure, and you have previously broken the law, which should have solved the problem, which is imposed by the Constitutional Court's decision, is not correct. If you had voted for the law then and that for some other reason he fell you'd be perfectly fine with what you said. Don't force anyone because we're aware there's a problem, to make an even bigger problem. So, I'm asking you to be rational. We know how the law fell. Now we have to make it happen to make the law pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13942	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13943	I apologize if you've gotten the impression that I'm accusing or forcing, I've appealed, in some way praying. And when it comes to breaking down changes and supplementing the Code of Origin in the term which you mention, then it was about extending the experience. So it wasn't just about the implementation of the court, or the implementation of the BiH Court Decision, but it was about ambitions to come up with certain reconstructions when it came to municipalities and, to be precise, that was when the Federation municipalities grouped on one side and municipalities from RS to the other, that there was no interference. So those were the reasons why we didn't support that law at the time. And this proposal today has been cleared of everything and the Constitutional Court's decision has literally been passed on.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13944	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13945	We're talking about the need for an emergency procedure and we can conduct the debate in two ways. One is to talk about what is essential, so whether or not we should have a procedure in accordance with Article 127, so emergency procedure, or to spread the atmosphere to other topics. I tried to be very correct and not go into the past trying to give this law a chance to be adopted. When I saw the law proposed by my colleague Krstan Simić in the House of Peoples and when I saw that it was the same law to this which today is at the House of Representatives, it really gave me hope that today, without much and without excessive discussion, we would solve this technical problem that people, or children, can get home numbers as soon as possible. And once again I appeal, I really pray that we try to focus on how to solve the problem. My kolegica Majkić is absolutely right that we are in a situation where there are more laws in the process than different promoters at the same time. Here I am pleased that these five proposings and fellow Simić have the same, at least as Parliament, is an identical proposal. I don't know what the Council of Ministers will adopt, I don't even know what the proposal is. But we're probably all heading this way and we're actually demanding an emergency procedure because we felt this dose and personal responsibility to solve this issue. And I wouldn't really be angry, nor troublesome, as many people have suggested that we solve this problem today, and especially, if I may say one more time, if we suggested that it be done in the same way.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13946	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, vice-president, debate. Here you go. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13947	I thank the chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that yesterday's session was interrupted. My question to the minister was just about this law. And I wanted to be here in front of you and in front of everyone to clear up the doubts that have in the meantime caused a variety of political performances and media and others that have shown everyone from their own corner what this law looks like and what needs to be done. Obviously, there's still some confusion here between us, and I think it's time we solved them. We in the RS have warned several times that this law should be obtained and clearly and unequivocally your position here has already been shown once. We are also not in any way capable of solving important matter in a quick and wrong way. It seems to me that speed is not a good associate to anyone, nor is it proposed by this law. Why won't we vote for an emergency procedure today, even though we are aware that nothing interferes with the issue is not in BiH? Because the law, when proposed under this procedure, has to be from A to Z every point and every point, unequivocally correct, because it can't be changed in amendment. Dear colleagues who have proposed this Law should tell me in regular number 8 and regular number 10 that they have sinned in the names of municipalities. There is no Kupres RS, there is no Trnos RS and so on, and so on. Gentlemen, you can't make such mistakes if you ask us to make a law without amendments and amendments. I believe the speed was a mistake and a non-cooperating and to Mr Simić who proposed the law in the House of Peoples. And as I heard from him this morning, he's gonna pull that law. So we won't vote for urgency. And frankly, there is no trust here between us when we talk about the implementation of the Sejdić and Finc judgment where we advocate the expansion of experiences, and here for the implementation of the Constitutional Court we ask that only, if we are to be principled, will we be principled for all. And since there's no trust, then we'll ask it to be a package, because then it'll be a package and a home number, and a residence, but also a Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13948	Thank you. Dear Representative Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13949	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. As far as I can see, here I am from the presentation of my colleagues and I am one of them, and here I am from colleagues Živković and my colleague Majkić, so we all stand out here without a reservation and we understand how important it is and how urgent this issue is. So, I know there's been as much indiscipline as you want before, but I think we should stop once. Now where it's going to start and when it starts, where it's going to start, here's what I think we have a lot of reasons for, say, starting today from this question. Did we have a question of the Law on Citizenship and Article 17, so we also have questions about the possibility of retaining citizenship to our citizens and after 01.01.2013 and the Constitutional Court Decision and after that several times discussion to finally get the Constitutional Court to finish the job by the end. I think there's a lot of work ahead of us. We must look for ways to restore mutually 23 internal trust, how we will build this dialogue. If there shouldn't be any policy anywhere, there shouldn't be any day-to-day squabble, then maybe it's a question of those who just come into the world and get started, before it's out, having a problem with whether they're somewhere in someone, I don't know what register they're in, whether that register belongs to this group or that group, and so on. I am asking you, here, according to this, especially because we have a Constitutional Court Decision, I will propose one of the conclusions and I believe that in that sense we can achieve this necessary level of agreement and consensus, which is that it is really about issues, like this now, because here is Mr. Živković mentioned it as one of the unprincipled ones, and I fully support that it can be observed on that side, but I would ask that on some issues we end it once and start acting responsibly all together. Therefore, on issues concerning the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court, to assign this House here to the Council of Ministers, in such cases, within 30 days at the latest, to adopt to the Parliamentary Assembly exclusively what is the subject of the Constitutional Court's decision. If we make one such principled approach to all questions, then here we are, it seems to me, many problems are solved. I know because I also talked to my colleagues at the Ministry of Civil Affairs when it comes to this broader procedure in the Single Parent Number Act, I'm not sure that at this point we have the capacity, we have the willingness to do it more widely, but also on the other hand I'm not far from being able to discuss these issues more fully relaxed and fully open in some future period. Until we have it, I am really asking you to support today and this part concerning the procedure, and then the text of this Law itself, because I think we are sending a more honest, responsible message to the citizens of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13950	I'm sorry. Dear Representative Petar Kunić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13951	Thank you, Chairman. I would agree not to go back in time but under one condition, of course, to be principled, I always advocate such solutions, on one condition that we stick to the Constitution. So, to correct the anti-constitutional solutions we've had in the past. Gentlemen, you don't have a region anywhere that's a criterion for any designation of parent number, it's an imaginary category, it's not a constitutional category. So the creators of such a law, the former Law invented this solution, of course, by trying, not to open debates of a stronger character now, is a certain tendency in this House in the afterlife. So, I will always vote for something, which is a constitutional solution, and we want to correct anti-constitutional solutions back in time. I think you know exactly what I mean, I'm not opening that debate. We now have an anti-constitutional solution to citizenship, I hear how we handle it. Please, entity citizenship is a constitutional category, so it has to be on the list. There's no way to pass the list pattern in that sense, as suggested. Who's the one who's always fighting constitutional solutions, gentlemen? The constitution is such, it exists, it must be applied, and we know it well, we are not illiterate about the Constitution, of course. 24 Therefore, when these things disappear, then we will have more trust and we will be able to make decisions far more efficient and faster, but please in accordance with the Constitution. And in that case, no one can object. Of course, I accept this so we don't put it on the agenda today by this procedure. These are sensitive issues and relate to those issues that were removed at the last session when the law was proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13952	Thank you. Dear Representative Borislav Bojić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13953	I'll just have a few comments about the law in question. So, I also think that this important legislative project should go into regular procedure, not to slow down, therefore, the need for the adoption of this kind of law and when I hear some colleagues talking about the principle and implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court, there are others and there are more and certainly there are important issues, the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional or Constitutional Courts. So this should certainly be the subject of the Parliamentary Assembly's interest. What I think and by the logic of things would be, let me say, the simplest solution, given that the same proposal appears in more places than a number of proposings, the question arises where is the Council of Ministers and did the Council of Ministers take note of the solutions offered and had a proposal? He's got a proposition. So, will the proposal come to this Parliamentary Assembly through our Council of Ministers, and what solutions we will actually have offered at the Parliamentary Assembly depends on how we are going to pass the law. As far as I'm concerned, this law should go into regular procedure. This kind of urgency certainly won't help us pass quality legal regulations. Since I, at least I have unofficial information, that today the Council of Ministers is considering these issues, there is no logic that the Parliamentary Assembly... so the Council of Ministers which we have chosen to prepare in a professional sense good legal solutions. So if they are good, they will surely be supported in both homes. What will happen in this House, this law should be brought down, and in the House of Nations to bring down the law of Krstan Simić, what will we get as a solution? Nothing. Therefore, I am not in favour of getting any solution, but of getting a solution that will be of interest to those of us who live here in BiH. Here's one correct and rational approach.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13954	Thank you. Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13955	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 25 So I want to say right away that it is necessary to vote in favour of the emergency procedure of this Act and that it should be brought down immediately afterwards. So this Law, which is Article 5, is the only subject of the amendment and implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision BiH is unacceptable to us and it is in no form in the proposal as proposed, not respecting, therefore, the country's constitutional structure. He does not respect the constitutional structure of BiH, which is composed of two entities. I am more surprised by some of the signatories of this proposal, according to the border, this, the territorial demarcation of the former inter-municipal conferences of the Alliance of Communists of the Socialist Union, the Union of Unions and the Alliance of Socialist Youth. So I can't believe what now was the reason some of the signatories of this bill accept. Furthermore, we have been instructed earlier in an earlier debate in this proposal to respect both its territorial integrity and sovereignty by respecting BiH's constitutional structure. Why the problem is that by voting for the registration areas and unique parent numbers, we are now calling for a topic called – how children cannot register. I can sign in and see no problem when the Council of Ministers proposes a bill, that this House, as well as the House of Peoples, schedule emergency sessions and adopt this. But this exemption, under which even some BiH judicial institutions deal exclusively with subjective reasons and strong public pressures, abuse of their judicial position, this is the only case where the prosecution has asked for an opinion on the implementation of the verdict. So why didn't they ask for Mostar? What's the problem they're looking for for for Mostar? What reason is that? What kind of relationship in BiH is that there is a responsibility of someone who has not been implemented on only one example. After all, if we are not able to agree, to compromise a solution that is completely normal, I do not want to go back to what I said, a key mistake is here, this one, done in BiH when we accept the strong pressures of the international community's unfair relationship, bringing ourselves under constant pressure, starting from personal documents to all of this, that today should, you know, give us this is very urgent, can't be entered. This is not the BiH state's jurisdiction, this is the entity's jurisdiction. If we're not getting up here to agree in both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, this law will be passed by entities, so it will be uniquely applied and the collection of these data will not endanger anyone in BiH and no one will be unlisted and no one from the RS from Zvornik, Vlasenica or from anywhere else will escape from BiH if its registration area is listed, for example, in Bijeljina. Why should someone from Kupres be enrolled in the registration area in Zenica and not registered in the registration area in Livno? And what is the problem with the number of registration areas in BiH, if its constitutional structure is defined by the Dayton Constitution of BiH. And also, at the same time, if and when the constitutional structure of BiH is changed, I responsibly argue, we MPs from the RS at the same time will approach amendments and additions of laws that would comply with its constitutional structure. So here we must have an honest relationship, it is a complete disregard for the Constitution of defined rights of citizens and constituent peoples in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13956	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13957	I am also with my opening exhibition and the replica that I had tried to be perfectly correct, not to open things the way my colleague Prodanović did, but it seems that this House doesn't appreciate it. So, was the Communist Party either the alliance this or the one, establishing these registers, I don't know. I don't know, I've never been to the Communist Party, you've been, you must know it better than me. But when we talked about this, believe me, it wasn't a topic at all. These registers are true, they've been established for seventy-seven years, and nobody's had a problem with them in the '70s or '80s or '90s, not even during the war, not in the 2000s or 2010, but now, today, after 40 and change years, a man in Parliament gets up and tells me now we have a problem. What? That's how we have a problem. Okay, I can live with it, I don't think there's a problem and I won't vote for what you're talking about. I think it's counterproductive. If you want to sit around all day, we can talk about it. The state's story on the list, I think it's the wrong story here today. Now, before that citizenship is not a subjective category, it's either you're a citizen of something or you're not. Unless you're proposing to leave it open, so we'll all sign up as American citizens, German, French, as anyone loves it. Someone might like to be Serbian, Croatian. I don't know either, I mean, if it's an idea. I think it's the wrong story and the wrong time and the wrong reason. Why is this proposed today and why is the Council of Ministers not waiting? Because it's an emergency. Because it's true to a colleague of the Prodanović, that children can't be enrolled. If last night, the RS interior minister at the press conference says he can't, and you say today in Parliament he can, I don't know who to trust. I know he's dealing with it, and you're not dealing with it. Although
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13958	I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to stay away from the bench. Here's your colleague, Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13959	I think the moment he talked about it, that it wasn't changed, and even if it was, it doesn't matter if a man knows whether to assign a parent's number or not. So I can't get kids to sign up. And the only reason for this urgency is that the Council of Ministers does not know what law or law we have proposed or the law identical to the law of Krstan Simić, to us
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13960	Comrade Magazinović, your time is up, and fellow MPs, let your colleague Magazinović finish his thought.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13961	I'll only have ten seconds of those we spent on calming down our colleagues. So we need the next 14 or I don't know how many days until the next session, to discuss this law, and that's why we're not waiting for the Council of Ministers. And I will end up with what my colleague, Lazar Prodanović, ended up with. He says, what's the problem with the registration areas? And I'm also wondering, what's the problem with that and why we don't do this and solve a very correct, exact problem that we all know exists?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13962	Thank you. Dear Representative Senad Šepić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13963	So here's a short colleague of Lazar. We're all talking is really urgent, it is a problem, we all have a problem, I don't know what time Čađo was making a statement, but I think he was a minister back then, and if he wasn't a minister, I think people have a real problem. Is the minister somewhere in some resignation? So, the Council of Ministers, Lazare, treated this, and again the same proposal has proposed today at the Council of Ministers, and we will get the same thing again that we obviously won't be able to agree on then. About this broad procedure we don't have any for right now, obviously we don't have the support for it. So, in that sense, can we have that kind of relationship with this kind of question? So, it's not just the D.A.'s office, but it is, in that sense, strangely, that the D.A. decided to ask for special information on this matter alone. I think we should look for everything, but as I just said, once we have to stop with some of those, who started the war, when it was from what it looked like, since that thing started, some kind of indiscipline. I suggest that today, therefore, we support this on one of these levels. This isn't just what the D.A. did, you see this, and these ombudsmen there achieved both national and any other consent, they all signed together and asked the Council of Ministers to do exactly what we did here today. In some order of action, this session was the first and I don't see why we should talk about getting it back to someone else right now, moving it to other organs. I ask you to support this proposal today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13964	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13965	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I had no intention of answering, but I have to get up and say that although nothing can surprise me here in this House for a long time, I am a little surprised by the discussion of a respected colleague of Prodanović. And that's why I got up to say it in public. I can't believe that in the implementation of the Constitutional Court ruling where there are solutions that I don't like either, but that's the Constitutional Court ruling, trying to connect another thing that is known to have no agreement on the matter in BiH. It is true that BiH has an inter-entity, internal entity structure such as it has, but it is true that many businesses, numerous ingenuities in BiH are performed beyond and inter-entity lines, i.e. the organisational areas of various institutions are outside inter-entity lines or inter-entity lines. So this is one of these things, and this one, let's leave it aside, so that 28 we can only commit ourselves to the implementation of the Constitutional Court's verdict and not be in a position to be declared to those who refuse to implement the verdict or prevent the implementation of the verdict, which can also be criminally legal. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13966	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Kunić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13967	I'm sorry there's no Mr. Magazinović, to answer him. Some things still need to be known when spoken in this House, at least the elementary ones. BiH is not what it was in the 1980s and 90s, it's a completely different story. It's the sky and the earth, by the internal structure, to remind him of that, he was probably small, so he didn't. Another thing that says citizenship is a subjective relationship. Please, it's a constitutional relationship, it's a state-to-one relationship. What subjective relationship? The subjective relationship is only manifested if you're in Germany, you live in Germany for eight years, there's a censorship for 8 years and you ask, so it's only your will, and it's a matter of state authorities to give you citizenship. And our citizenship comes first at birth. It's a fact and it's a legal fact, not a subjective relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13968	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13969	I thank the chairman. I would refer to what the esteemed colleague Šepić said, and that is that we should forget what happened, who started war, that we do not do such things. I agree, too, that we shouldn't deal with what happened, that we're wasting our time, because we'll never get along. And that's why we need to go from what we have and what's the fact. And the fact is that BiH consists of two entities, RS and the Federation of BiH. And I don't see why that's some problem? Why is there a problem with bringing this law in line with BiH's territorial organisation? And if we're talking about personal responsibility, I'm asking where was that personal responsibility when they shot down this law? And we in the SDS support the views of the Government of the RS, that they will pass the Law on a single birth number and as a constructive opposition that has always kept track of the interests of the RS in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we will support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13970	Thank you. Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović, replica. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13971	I'd like to tell everyone there's no reason to worry. So, I am, my country is BiH and I am a BiH citizen, the only citizen of BiH, so I am the only citizen of BiH and the RS and I respect its constitution. Speaking of any question, my capital is Sarajevo in Bosnia, the capital of BiH and Banja Luka as RS capital. But, but I want to tell you one thing, only if you're not glad that we're talking about registration areas right now, I'm saying
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13972	I'd like to ask my colleagues and colleagues for attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13973	I'm talking about respecting the BiH Constitution. And I see absolutely no problem in respecting the Constitution of BiH in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decisions, let's agree and reach a consensus on the Law on a single birth number, but not in the form in which this Law is proposed. That is why I think it is useful for all of us to adopt an emergency procedure today, bring it down, get the law from the Savejt of Minsitasar and adopt it in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This will not harm any newborn in BiH, not one BiH citizen, or BiH. But my friends, we have to be honest, what do we want from this country? Do we want to marginalize everything and be in one position or be what will be respected, which will respect the Constitution, what do we want in BiH? BiH as a country that has ambitions and ambitions to be an EU member in which every time we use something, no, we will not ignore it, there is no such thing. After all, when you talk about registration areas, I'll tell you that no economic operator is registering in any other way. And what is the problem of a single home number to define just as it is proposed, to respect the constitutional structure of this country? I repeat once again, when the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of this country create the possibility of a different structure of this country, we will, for sure, vote to apply the law, so that the law is in accordance with the Constitution and amendments to this law. We can't appeal to a '70s period. years, when the registration areas were the way I said, when there was a war here, when the Dayton Constitution brought in a whole new structure, what's the general problem now? What's the big deal? Is that a problem, you know what it is, the problem is that obviously those who vote against this vote do absolutely nothing to confirm that there are two entities in BiH called the RS and the Federation of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13974	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13975	I thank the chairman. Although I was hoping at first that we would not open these other issues, however, it is obviously impossible in this situation and here we are now, thanks to this support from the SDS to the government. If the day had arrived earlier, there might not have been a resignation, nor have we heard that besides East Sarajevo, someone confessed to both Sarajevo and the like. But I have to go back to this basic story that makes us now, which is on the 30th agenda. We spent a long time at the College yesterday, I was still, I couldn't help thinking that today would be complicated, because yesterday we spent time. Of course, the inevitable question for the SDP is why was he doing this with the United States? Let's not lie, we came in a little bit, and we asked that question. The second issue that is important here, said a colleague of Prodanović earlier on, no other register was formed like this, none although they were all otherwise formed. There's only one left who wants to form like this. And I remember the police negotiations, here I think it was Mr. Sarajlić at that famous closed meeting behind the seven locks, when Mr. Eždaun rolled his sleeves and looked for a forest here above the Pal, to get a patrol from Sarajevo into that forest. I kept wondering whose forest it was, is Radovana, why is this forest important? It's important, it's important, it's asked for the forest to cross the border, nothing else. And as a fol, it doesn't matter to anyone, it doesn't, and here and here today is the key question. We're here to politicize this situation with children, unfortunately. If it's important for children, why are you putting the principle that Kupres will have to be in Zenica? Why don't you say it's important for the kids to get their home number, and we don't care if Kupres is in Zenica or in Livno? It's not true you don't care. You don't want to hear about the children, because it's more important to you at all costs to defend the principle that Kupres must be in Livno. And don't talk about kids, you don't care about kids. It's not true that you kids are interested. Because if you were interested, then you'd say, give the people the law, put where you think it's best because it's important for us kids. No, no, don't touch what we wrote, but as a foll, it's important for the kids. That's not true. That's not true. Don't lie to me. We're not fair. Because if this were for your children, then it could and could be put in a situation why, of course, we're asking a question, this is what Professor Kunić was talking about. It's constitutional matter. There are two entities in this country and everything else is arranged like that, except for this. And if they're important kids, why don't we settle this the other way around? Is there going to be such a problem if Kupres is in Livno and he's not in Zenica? There won't be a problem, I'm sure it won't. But I don't know why you insist on it. So you insist because you have that tendency that from time to time here
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13976	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13977	You try and end it, there is none of this, I think we can only appeal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia today to bring as soon as possible our law based on the Constitution and end this story. And let's not argue about something that we don't even have to negotiate about, obviously that's how it is. We can't, we have the will, it would be the order, but if we can even avoid it and if we can solve it that way, I think it's more logical and move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13978	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić, business intervention a respected representative, Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13979	... Nothing more. [[Disable microphone]] 31
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13980	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13981	Ladies and gentlemen, a good part of the discussion was said in his replica by Mr. Kalabić. I just want to say that I'm here today, and probably all MPs, we have two suggestions for who. One that our minister, Mr Nović, and the other who led the group with Mr Magazinović. And that third one I haven't seen, but I don't care, to be honest. I'm interested in what the Council is, what Minister Resorni predicted. Perhaps we made one mistake last time when, on Mr. Magazinović's proposal, we adopted that Traffic Act, so I said, come on, it's good from his fellow minister, so maybe that's how he let him say it and say it and we accepted it with respect. Well, it seems to me to the individuals very often to sweeten it and say, "Now I'm going to go to the others." Now that you've touched a part of the area our resolute minister suggested quite differently, and from the discussion of individuals I hear there's no way to accept it, then it's not exactly such a meaningless problem. The main problem here is that we from the RS and the MPs who proposed this, we differ. For these reasons, I propose from now on, without contesting any MPs to propose legislation, it is also allowed and desirable, but let it pass the regular procedure, which is to go to the Committee or the Legislative Commission, to know whether it is in accordance with the applicable Constitution and regulations. For these reasons, I am disappointed that we are trying to make arguments, what is, which is why we disagree with this, and the apriors on the other hand are saying no, we are not accepting what the proposal is on the Council of Ministers and what is being debated today. It's not a good message, and I don't think we're going that far. Maybe we should go and talk about things that are easier and faster to deal with. I know, when it comes to the extraction of the birth certificate, here's nothing to do with it, but people who are born in some municipalities where they don't live now can't get their birth certificate out anywhere, they have to go to these municipalities, etc., and especially as long as there's been a law for six months on birth certificate. So we're not making a problem here, too, that registration is done in places where people have never been, nor will they, intend to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13982	Thank you. I would like to ask my fellow Members and fellow MPs for one more time, to stick to the agenda points and not to spread to those topics that are not part of this, and then provoke replicas. Honorable representative Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13983	Let me say hello. I won't comment much on this law, but this is a debate in a perfectly normal atmosphere. Someone has wishes, someone has suggestions, often in this country wishes don't come true, proposals don't pass, so we have a situation like we are in. I thought that Mr. Boško Tomić 32 would replicate his colleagues to Laza Prodanović, but since he didn't, here's why I answered. I mean, if we're talking about the fact, I think that first and foremost what Mr. Kunić said, we need to know some basic things, and on many occasions I've heard one thing that's not a fact, which is, Mr. Prodanović, that Banja Luka is not the capital of RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13984	Thank you. Dear Representative Senad Šepić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13985	To me, it's really not a questionable respect for the Constitution. So, I don't have a problem with that in general. What I think after a while, when we listen to these discussions of ours today, that's why I need it especially for me, we're going to put an accent on it. So the question is, where do we go with one of these? Where does this ship go in general? So the question is trends. And in this moment, what we're talking about right now, we're talking about some trends that mean integration. The whole of Europe integrates, the whole world integrates, and we keep trying to go back and make bigger barriers, make some bigger differences between us. I really think that, therefore, the question in which we are going to treat one of these areas is something that is good for all of us, because something that is actually trending is something that will allow all of us to be, well, tomorrow, to get better at the time and in the world that we are going towards, so this Europe, these integrations. And in that sense, I ask you, therefore, to return to that level these discussions of ours today. And I think, in that sense, that every policy and every move that will respect, of course respect the Constitution, but on the other hand be flexible and open enough, that it has this integrated approach is something that is good for everyone in this country. And I have no right to these replicas anymore, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13986	Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13987	My replica is a respected colleague Kalabić and his findings – that the government would not fall yesterday if he knew that the SDS would support it. I'm glad Mr. Kalabić, first of all, to admit that the government fell because she didn't have the support of the SDS and that we've criticised her all these years. And Aleksandar Džombić if he had listened a little better to us, he probably wouldn't have found himself in a position where he found himself told in 15 minutes that he had to leave. But since you SNSD are constantly proud of the continuity of the previous three governments, I expect that this fourth government will also lead the continuity of the policy of the previous and keep the promise of this outgoing government, i.e. that he would propose to the National Assembly the Law on a unique home number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13988	Thank you. 33 Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13989	What the opposition says, and you're heavy to Bog, it's nothing, nothing new, the governments in Banja Luka will change, but the opposition and the government will have the same composition for many years, and we will deal with this difficult problem of government change, and you will deal with your problem, survival in opposition and everyone and good, it is not disputed. But I didn't think you'd be replicating me for that reason, so I thought when you called in the replica of your colleague, you'd argue that Sarajevo is not your capital, because now I understand, all you have is Sarajevo. You do not recognize Banja Luka, and you support what is said for Sarajevo. And well, at least add east if, a little bit to correct that impression because, of course, Banja Luka is the most beautiful city in BiH, that it is the capital of the RS, our largest and best city, the best women in BiH are in Banja Luka the most beautiful. That's a long time ago, so there's no one who can't love Banja Luka. I mean, it's just someone from the SDS who can think of it. I haven't heard that in a long time. But well, it doesn't matter. I accept the invitation of my colleague Šepić. So, that's right, fellow Šepiću, but thank us for one detail. Before this law entered the procedure, we should have, if we can't and the SDP sit down, maybe it's, maybe it's your turn to sit with you, but before the law enters the procedure. So let's spend a few nights and days, see if we can. But one brings it, we've had this situation, others don't take it, not just from our side, but from yours and vice versa, and that's how we did it. So, here, let's take a break, make time, sit down and make it, come up with a harmonised law, and that's it. But not in the halls, we don't get along, and here, like, so I accept, and I agree that we need to make a deal, and I agree that we should do something together. But you must know that in Banja Luka, your MPs have also disputed the Law of Cemeteries. The law on cemeteries that are so much, that I don't say I won't say a banal thing, which tells you they've challenged everything alive. So we need it at all levels, we can't pass 50 laws there and we can't finish it because people have challenged it. Maybe something with the right, maybe everything, but if we're gonna make a deal, we're gonna make a deal in a package, completely, not when it suits us, not when it suits you, not when it suits someone else. So I don't argue that we need to, but we need to sit down before, negotiate and come here to have as little discussion as possible. And here, gentlemen of the SDP, I really resent them for doing this this way. Here's the thing, I thought I'd keep it quiet today, but I don't think it's right. There are no SDP and SNSD laws and agreements on the agenda, no agenda, but they have SDA and SDP laws. I don't think so. I don't see how we can get out of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13990	I thank the honourable representative. Honorable representative Darko Babalj, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13991	I'll be brief, although we're not here to love something we think we should love or not love, we're here to respect the Constitution first of all. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13992	The discussion was attended by the chairman, distinguished colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13993	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I will begin my debate with a single replica, and I will quote first the words of my colleague Lazar Prodanović who says – if and when the constitutional structure of BiH is changed, we representatives from RS will be the first to change the Constitution, i.e. the registration area. These words actually reveal to me that he is a double optimist or that he will change that constitutional structure very quickly or that he will be a representative for a long time. So, on the other hand, the answer to a colleague, Pandurević, who said -- who is the BiH structure bothering, who is really the structure of BiH with two entities? The problem is for me, it turns out that BiH is also a problem, but I respect the constitutional fact that BiH has two entities and we have sworn that we will all work accordingly. Now let me look back with a few sentences to the point. So this is where two dimensions of this problem actually meet. One procedural dimension is the basis of the Constitutional Court Decision, we need to amend the law and bring it into line in the domain, therefore, the parent number and this initiative, this bill is submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this House and we have put it here today in session. On the other hand, the issue of essence is to solve other issues that we can solve and what are the problems in the finality of BiH, and I am in favour of always putting the essence first, satisfying procedure and form, and when it comes to this law and when it comes to constitutional reform. And in April of last year, I supported the law proposed by Mr. Nović, or the Council of Ministers, and I would once again support a similar bill. The essence here, after all, is the political agreement and the creation of consensus here in BiH and therefore I do not agree with these discussions, I think that fellow Šepić has repeated it several times, we are going to meet and fulfill what the Constitutional Court is asking of us. The BiH Constitutional Court will not make it self-sustainable and functional, as it has not done this constitution, as Empirically proven for the past 20 years, we should turn to the essence. Therefore, but we also know as soon as, in a short period of time, that three laws that treat the same matter have met, that there has actually been no talk here about this paradigm of negotiation, the creation of consensus, or the resolution of essence, but it has certainly entered into one matrix of political outsmart. And that's why I'm skeptical, therefore, that any of these laws would get a majority here in Parliament, one home and another, without first turning to what is the essence here, that there is a consensus on the most important issues for BiH and that ultimately we are practicing this negotiation matrix. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13994	Next up for the discussion, dear colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13995	Madam President, I have two problems, one is the fact that I have come to a relatively distant history, and the other is that before I finally get a chance to say, the word has been given to the esteemed President, Mr. Božo Ljubić, so for these two reasons, for both of these problems, here, I will try to get out what is hearty and what I think is a fundamental problem. And the fundamental problem is that we are all still in trouble after these discussions and we haven't moved one inch towards solving this problem, and the problem is we all know which one. The problem will not be solved by including the urgent procedure of this bill, because it is obvious that it will ultimately not pass, as the problem will also not be solved by Novic's bill, because he already had this experience of not passing, is it. Since the bill is being treated right now, I think there is still a Council of Ministers meeting on the Council of Ministers, there is still some light chance or light hope that, as a result of the debate at the Council of Ministers in its procedure, a slightly different bill comes out of the Council of Ministers' procedure which could be such a nature that it is acceptable and to solve this crucial problem. If that happens, and I would like of course to happen, then I suggest that, and given the fact that yesterday because of the lack of quorum, we interrupted that joint session of both homes, I suggest that our College be initiated by a session of the Joint College and called upon as soon as possible a joint session of both homes to continue and to possibly supplement the agenda in the case, I repeat again, in case the Council of Ministers comes up with a law which has the chance to be adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly in order to speed up the problem that remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13996	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, vice-president, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13997	Thank you. There's a lot to be said, I'm only going to go on about what I've already been saying here after this pay phone again, and that's that none of the proposings have challenged what I've said here, that there are errors in this law. If that's the case, my colleagues and I will again vote against the Constitutional Court decision which was explicit that there are no such names of some municipalities. How can you put us in a position to vote against the Constitutional Court's decision against the Constitution? And I'm asking you as my proposings, and that's what I came out to say, to give up an emergency proposal and to go after the shortened procedure so that the amendments can act on this. Don't make us vote against the BiH Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13998	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, debate. Here you go. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u13999	The esteemed chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected and representatives of the Council of Ministers, as a meeting of the Council of Ministers is under way. Well, I've appealed several times, very briefly, when the composition is seen, don't get me wrong, I don't mean names and last names and national belongings, if you see the names of the motionors and that in those names, the representatives of the parties, the clubs, there's no one from the RS, so it's not clear to the legislators what fate that law or the bill will experience. I've got a mother and a dead father, so I don't now, let go of what it is, I'm talking here. And now something else, now something else, so please don't ask you, who's going to listen to me, but here's the appeal, that you don't suggest what's known at the beginning that it won't go away, and what's worst on such proposals is we lose the most time. Two, three hours, four hours, and the first person to answer, who has suggested and heard anyone from any political party, and especially us from the SNSD, that we will not accept it, why doesn't he say right away, report to the second and deny this, that we don't waste time and say – here I am pulling it, these won't from the RS, fate is known how it will be, we wait for the Council of Ministers' proposal and we end in 10 minutes. No, this is where we start from the home number, and no one tells us whether it's important to us at all, now I expand, let Bog ask that as many children as possible be born, the birth rate in decline, the mortality is stronger than the birth rate, the cities. And that one more, I'll take the opportunity, Mr. Magazinović, so you couldn't have been, so I'll just have to take advantage of it, you couldn't have been a member of the Communist Union, you weren't born then. And here I was, but my colleague, Prodanović, misinvolved this Alliance of Communists, and it's still in his head, and those were the regions of the Chamber of Commerce. Because then it was an important economy and it was divided into seven regions, seven chambers of commerce in BiH, and I know very well. But this birth number is not a region, but it's important over any number of 13 numbers in the home number over that seventh, right over the ninth, it doesn't matter which one, just a little bit, take the jurisdiction of the RS, so when we get to the tenth number, we've got three more, so we're gonna end up with those three easily. Come on, you're going to have to get your mother's number, God Bog as many kids as you can and leave this behind, the kids are going to sign up. I was born no one asked me for a home number and I don't need it today, but when we want to make a fuss, and this is a crowded, peaceful one I have to admit, then my colleague Babalj comes along who, thank Bog, answers for 16 seconds and says, "The capital is this or not." Whoever's asking you about the capital, I have to replicate, who's asking you, and now we're in a position, the government has fallen, the government never falls anywhere, just changing ministers. The wrong full formulation, it'll be a new government, it'll be more successful, you'll see. But it's not the subject of this House that we're discussing at all, just the work. It's for me to finish, because I have to go and give my congratulations to the new candidate, Mrs. Cvijanović, who was proposed, so I can finish my presentation. Thank you very much. I'll send her a message right away.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14000	Thank you. Honorable representative Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14001	Here's till Slavko, until Slavko gone to us, Slavko I will never again, I will never dare to suggest anything here again, I'm sorry, I've made a mistake, I won't do it again. It's about proposing. Apropo demands Mr. Živković, that the proposings do not practically force this Parliament to adopt something that was not decidently transferred from the Constitutional Court Decision, I fully agree. So we'll check again if it's not correctly transmitted and if that's all that's the problem, I'm absolutely ready to go into another kind of procedure right now. So, if that is the only reason why you do not support this amendment, that is, this Law. I'm absolutely ready to give up my emergency procedures, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14002	Thank you. We have no more, honourable representative Milorad Živković, vice president, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14003	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have the right to another replica and let me say that no one here in this House can make anyone vote if he thinks it's against the Constitution, no matter what the reason. Leave the amendment phase and we'll discuss all these discussions, and we'll talk about it once again, and then I'll discuss it and then I'll know what my opinion is when the discussion of the law opens, then we'll talk about what BiH is today, which was the Constitution of '45. And on top of that, where the Brcko District is in it all, etc. etc. But don't make us vote against the Constitution right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14004	Thank you. No more reporting for discussion, and I'm closing the hearing. We move on to the point, but before we move to the next item of the agenda, I would like to inform the distinguished colleagues and colleagues about the very important events and commitments in the afternoon should still bring this session to an end and therefore shorten the debate to 5 minutes on all the next points of the agenda. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Institute for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This Proposal for a Law was adopted in the first reading at the 40th session held on 03.01.2013 at the 41st session held on 31.01.2013 and 38 The Committee was in accordance with Article 112(3). The Rules of Procedure tasked with drawing up a new report. This item was removed from the agenda last session at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission. The college extended the deadline for the delivery of the report until the next session of the House. A new report was submitted on 26 December 2013 and three amendments were adopted. Representative Darko Babalj is in accordance with Article 118(2). The Rules of Procedure submitted an amendment which again defends the plenary phase after it was not successfully defended in the Committee. The amendment reads: "The project implementation unit's headquarters is in the town of East Sarajevo, the municipality of East Ilija." I am opening the debate. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14006	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. The Constitutional Commission went to a lot of trouble by the time it came to this opinion delivered to you, to which the Law is supported. I call upon the House to uphold the law. The amendment tabled by counterpart Babalj was amended, and Mr. Prodanović was rejected by the Constitutional Legal Commission. He, I repeat, I suggest that this amendment be not accepted. It cannot go into practice for the Council of Ministers to make one decision on one issue, and then later on, when it is finished in the Council of Ministers, we will go on to see in the parliamentary procedure what else we can solve from this law in our own way, is a way that is not the way of all of us or is not the way of the Council of Ministers at the end of the day. It's just not going to work, and I suggest that my colleague Babalj withdraw that amendment. If the amendment does not withdraw, I suggest you reject it and only adopt the text of the law that came from the Constitutional Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14007	Thank you. Dear Representative Darko Babalj, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14008	Well, you've already said everything, but what's very interesting here, and I think it's always full of BiH mouths, always full of mouths fighting crime, always full of mouths fighting corruption, always full of mouths of MPs, or MPs about spending and saving in BiH. This is one technical thing, technical. So, in the Law establishing the Institute for Criminal Penalty, Detention and Other Measures of BiH, adopted in 2008, article 2, says – The headquarters of the Institute is in the town of East Sarajevo, the municipality of East Ilidja. Well, I guess it would make sense for the headquarters and these implementation units to be in East Iliji. And why would it be logical? Well, I guess because if she's in Mostar, she'll have a lot of, a lot of, a lot of ex-post expenses, so if she's in Sarajevo, she'll have a lot, a lot, a lot of things that will complicate building this prison. I think that logically, practically, 39 to have this seat in East Ilidja, or East Sarajevo, is the basic motive because it is the headquarters of the Institute in Eastern Sarajevo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14009	No more reports, closing the hearing. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties At the 42nd session of the House held on 14th, this proposal for a law was adopted in the first reading, the competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs submitted no amendments to the report on 26th.02. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Act
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14012	I just want to say one thing, how can laws be made that can be acceptable to both MPs from one entity and another. This is the first time that the Ministry of Justice has delivered the same to the Ministry of Justice, which has submitted observations, observations have been incorporated into the Law and you can see that there is no problem then that they, that the law be supported by MPs from the RS. This is also true of this next Law on litigation. So this could be our rule of how we're going to increase the number of passing laws if we stick to these principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14013	Thank you. 40 no more reported. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on litigation before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina The Council of Ministers delivered this draft law in the procedure on 05.02, the Constitutional Commission delivered its Opinion on constitutional basis and principles on 26.02. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the ninth point, Ad. Nine. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the same Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14016	So to clarify that Dom knows what this is about, I think you can recognize it from the report, but you wouldn't recognize it better to say it. So, the House of Peoples adopted an amendment submitted by Mr Dragutin Rodić, a delegate from the House of Peoples. In which, in the extradition process, and we have rejected the amendment here, other than the BiH Minister of Justice, the entity ministers are involved and so there is no decision by the minister of justice without the consent of the entity ministers, that is what the amendment reads. The issue of extradition is a first-class state issue, and these state institutions can only have jurisdiction, and this amendment has practically been put into the hands of entity ministers, or the president of the Brcko District Justice Commission, and that is how this exclusive state jurisdiction is put into question. As a result, the Commission was unable to reach agreement and, according to what I saw in the Commission, the views are such that it is practically not possible to reach agreement. So much, just to let you know the reasons why it was done. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14017	No more reports. I'm closing the debate on the ninth item of the agenda. We're moving to the 10th point of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on a proposal for a law on property management temporarily and permanently withdrawn in criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice of BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (the law in first reading) There's no debate here, we're going to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad. 11. Commission report on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament of Azra Hadžiahmetović on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14022	Just a few words. So, this is the work on the annual examination of the conclusions of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security established for all institutions in the Defence and Security Sector. So 42 each year is monitored for these tasks and establish new conclusions that have been defined here in the material delivered to each MP. So, I think this is a good way of working that institutions that have so far failed to carry out their tasks are reminded of their obligations and I think that their tasks are such that their realisation would help improve the state of defence and security sector.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14023	Ambassador Beriz Belkić signed up for the discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14024	Very briefly, of course, by supporting what the President of the Commission is saying, I also had one dilemma on the Commission itself, that is, one kind of disagreement with the 19th page of the formulation under the conclusions concerning the Ministry of Security, so what is expected of the Ministry of Security, and point 2.8 is formulated – the status of security in Gornji Maoci. I am of the opinion that the matter should perhaps be formulated differently, how practically this part of BiH's territory is included in BiH's constitutional justice system, starting with the municipality in which it is located, through cantons, how much legislation in the fields of education, in the fields of health, social protection, etc. as much as the one in the Upper Maocee is present. So, the concept of security in Upper Maoca, probably people are safe up, uh, there's no problem that someone will endanger them, etc. but the real question is how much they are involved, i.e. that community, how much is included in BiH's constitutional justice system.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14025	Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14026	In fact, the explanation itself, we unanimously adopted the report, and now that the gornji Maoča opens, each of us would have a lot to add to that topic, so please fellow Beriz Belkić, so we are but that we can't now
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14027	Not just from the scene, you'll all get your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14028	So we had this, that finding when we adopted this report and Mr. Beriz Belkić voted for it and he said that he would take it out and bring it out there, but now what does it mean to change this? What does that mean to change now?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14029	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14030	No, no, okay, but then you have to make a suggestion on how to change it. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14031	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14032	Well, I'm thinking of opening the question of Upper Maoc, I mean, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14033	We're closing the debate on the 13th agenda. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14034	Ad. 14. Report on the implementation of the Action Plan for the application of UNSC Resolution No. 1325 "Wifes, Peace and Security" in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 27/07/11 to 27/07/2012 BiH Council of Ministers material On 15.02.2013, the Committee on Gender Equality submitted this report to the House with a proposal to discuss it at the House meeting. The Commission accepted the Report and proposed to the House to take it to knowledge and to support the next steps in the implementation of the Action Plan as set out in the Report. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I'm sorry, Your Honor. I'm Mr. Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14036	Well, I'm sorry there's no one here who wants a gender equality agency to say a few words. But in any case, since we're talking here about an action plan that meets both entities, both the center of entities of one and the other, it's really unclear to me that there's not a single detail here that suggests that this material has passed and that we're considering the entity Jender centers that most of the work is carrying. That is why I propose that a conclusion be adopted within this point, which says: That the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly asks the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the Gender Equality Agency to continue with reports on the implementation of the action plan for the implementation of the UNOSCO Resolution 1325 "woman, Peace and Security" also delivers the opinion of entity jender centres. Then we'll know exactly what it looks like in the entities that are monitoring the implementation of the Action Plan there. Thank you. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14037	Thank you. I've been briefed by a colleague from the College that he is a representative of the Agency here and sits in this hall. The next one came forward for the debate of Ismet Dervoz, a distinguished representative, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14038	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, just a few words, as the First Vice-President of the Commission for Gender Equality, in whose jurisdiction was the consideration and coordination of this Report that we propose today to take into account. So, distinguished Mrs. Majkić, I am sure she knows and supports, that this is one of the areas in which we in BiH have extraordinary cooperation and that we have a truly continuous exchange of information and coordination of all activities carried out almost on a daily basis. The BiH Gender Equality Agency at the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees with our Commission is working really well together, and their sub-registration and we also have continuous discussions and exchanges of information with the jender centres, i.e. gender-sensitive organisations at both entities level. I hereby advise you that everything in this report has been written on multiple occasions at numerous meetings with representatives of all levels agreed. So, following what our Commission did last year, which was also a proposal to the Parliamentary Assembly to also take note of this report for the past year, we did so for this year and I absolutely don't think it should be questioned whether this report is in any way consistent at all levels, because it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14039	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14040	Replica, my colleagues I have...from people who very much support all this work on this issue, but I am also dissatisfied that the comments I am reading now, which relate to challenges and recommendations in implementation, have been repeated for 10 years. The first thing that the Agency has failed to achieve, which is to bring legislation into line, so as we get with each law the position of the European Integration Directorate, we would have to get the position and fulfilment of obligations under the Law in gender equality. It is a key matter and a private task that has not been fulfilled by the Agency since the adoption of the Law in 2003. So I'm not saying this by heart. I asked these from the Jender Center -- did they see this one? They didn't see this one, so I don't make up those stories by heart, a little more cooperation would make us all get more together. So, there's a lot of talk on this plan, but the effects aren't like that, and we're going to need a lot more fighting to change things here. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14041	We don't have any more charges to discuss. Replica, the esteemed representative of Ismeta Dervoz, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14042	... You consult whenever we talk about gender equality, maybe you didn't notice, I did. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I just want to point out that, dear Mrs. Majkić, I, unlike you, am sitting in these meetings and as a member of the committee and as someone who might be more interested in this issue. So once again, I want to convince you that these meetings are regularly attended by representatives of the Jender Centres and the Federation and the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14043	Thank you. I'm just here to respond to the esteemed representative of Ismeti Dervoz. The three of us sit here so we can consult as a colleague, otherwise there'd be only one of us. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to item 15 of the agenda, Ad. 15. The appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina At the 42nd session of the House held on 14 December 2013, a re-scheduled statement on this point was postponed. So the debate is closed, we will later declare the appointment of the director and deputy director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH. There's no discussion about this point. We're going to the 16th point, Ad. 16. Appointment of a member of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Broadcasting Service
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14048	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14049	No need, prepare to vote on the College's Report. Vote now. I find that with 22 votes in favour of, 15 votes against, four abstentions, the Vice-President requests a repeat vote. Prepare to vote again. Vote now. I agree with 23 votes for, 14 votes against, 3 abstentions, but with 14 against in the second round of RS, it is not adopted. So we move to point 13. – Report from the workshop on the subject: "The Defence and Security Sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina – a year later", with a proposal for conclusions, the materials of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH. Here we have a proposal for the conclusion of MP Beriz Belkić, should he read it?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14050	You should.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14051	It should, in the proposed conclusions of pages 18 and 19 of the conclusions relating to the BiH Ministry of Security under point 2.8 of the current text, quote – Security status in Gornja Maoca, the text "and included this settlement in the constitutional legal system of the municipality, canton and state" is added. Prepare to vote on this conclusion. Vote now. I agree that with 39 votes, without votes against, without abstentions and with enough entity majority, we have adopted the conclusion of MP Beriz Belkić. And now we are voting on receiving the Joint Commission Report with this conclusion which becomes an integral part of the Report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that with 41 votes for, without votes against and without abstention, we adopted, with sufficient entity majority, the Joint Commission Report. Moving to point 14. – Report on the implementation of the Action Plan for the application of UNSC Resolution No. 1325 "women, peace and security" in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 27/07/11 to 27/07/12, the material of the BiH Council of Ministers. Here's the conclusion, we'll vote on receiving the report first. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 40 votes for, without votes against, one abstention, with enough entity majority we have received this report. Now I have here in the script, so it's written to vote on the proposal of MP Dušanka Majkić, but I have no conclusion in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14052	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14053	So, MP Dušanka Majkić withdrew this conclusion. 51 We therefore move to the 15th item of the agenda – The appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, given. A colleague of Mirsad Mešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14054	...the list I gave in the previous session.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14055	Thank you. I therefore propose that we vote then in the package on the first-ranked candidate from the director's list and on the first-ranked director's list. So, about the first registration from the list for the director is Petar Kovačević, for the director. And Vlado Rogić as Deputy Director of the Agency. So we're voting right now on this proposal. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. I agree that with 30 votes in favour of, 5 votes against, 5 abstentions, with enough entity majority, we have appointed Mr. Petar Kovačević as director and Mr. Vlada Rogić as Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH. Moving to point 16. – Appointment of a member of the Management Board of the Public Radio Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the ranks of others. I don't have a proposal right now by the clubs. I only have a rank list in front of me. A colleague of Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14056	Excuse me, the proposal is Sanja Latinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-02-28-0.u14057	So, firstly, we vote on the SNSD Club president's proposal to be elected member of the BiH Public Television Service Management Board from the ranks of other qualified candidates Sanja Latinović. I put this proposal to the vote, who's up for it? I find that with 28 votes in favour of, 6 votes against, 5 abstentions, with enough entity majority, we have appointed, confirmed the appointment of a member of the Management Board of the Public Television Service of BiH in the person Sanja Latinović. I'm closing the 43rd session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next session is scheduled for 14 March 2013. Thank you for your cooperation. Session completed 13:14 p.m.
