ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2849	We have working conditions, please media representatives to release the central podium. Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and other guests, I warmly welcome you and open the 30th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 14 delegates present at the session, 4 of them from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people. Delegate Hasan Bećirović is unable to attend the session for justified reasons. For the session, I suggest the following, amended: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 29th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Answer the delegates' questions and new delegates' questions; 3. Discussing information on the safety of work in BiH institutions delivered for the protest held from 05th to 07th of July 2013; 4. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Act No 01.02- 02-1-23/13, of 20.05.2013; 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of Deposits in Banks of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Act No 01,02-02-1- 17/13, of 11/04.2013; 6. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, issue: 01,02,02-1-52/12 of 04.06.2013; 7. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Fears, issue: 01,02,02-1-40/12 of 31.05.2013; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-8/13, since 05.02.2013; 2 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons (First Reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-18/13, of 15.04.2013; 10. Annual report on the results of the Human Rights Institution's 2012 Human Rights Institution and the Annual Report on Discriminations of Discrimination in BiH, issue 02-12-474/13, of 08.04.2013; 11. Special Report of the BiH Ombudsman Institution for Human Rights, with reference to the complaint of former Republika Srpska Customs Agency of the Republic of Serbia and Customs Service of the Brcko District of August 2010, issue: 01,02-37-417/13, since 29.03.2013; 12. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Management Board of the High Education Development Agency and quality assurance of BiH; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Finance between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on a multi-user programme for TMPUS 2012 under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, the BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-508/13, since 18.04.2013; 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Grant between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Project of Technical Support for the Promotion of Investment Climate and Institutional Strengthening, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2- 521/13, of 22.04.2013; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Additional Funding Agreement 2 to the Finance and Project Agreement, from 12.10.2009, between KfW, Frankfurt in May, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH (primac), as well as Republika Srpska, represented by the Ministry of Finance of the RS, and the City of Banja Luka (project Implementation Agency), at the amount of 1.470.000,00 euros – City water and sewerage system in Banja Luka, component 1 – Water supply and component 2 – Channel systems (project), BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-582/13 of 20.05.2013; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the EC IPA Part 1 Grant Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as administrator of the European Commission's Trust Fund for the European Union Pre-accession Instrument, materials of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-584/13 of 20.05.2013; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the First Amendment to the Agreement relating to the Credit Agreement, concluded on 27.12.2010, to finance the renewal and expansion of the sewerage system in Gradišca, between Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is represented by the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH, and United Credit Bank Austria AG, the material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-585/13 of 20.05.2013; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No. 2 to the Finance Treaty, concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, 21.12.2005 in Sarajevo and 28.12.2005 in Luxembourg, with subsequent changes – financing of the project Željeznica II (FI N° 23.3769), material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-587/13 20.05.2013. Which is why we listed all the points of the agenda. This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the House of Peoples. Is anyone answering for the word with the amendment and supplemental proposals? I find there are no reports. 3 Since the reported persons are not considered to have been adopted and not voted in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 29th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. I find that from, in the first round of 14 present, we have voted – 13 for and 1 abstention, from the Federation – 8 for, 1 abstention, from the RS – 5 for, adopted the Recorder, since there is both the general and entity majority. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2853	Well, I'm on that 24, 28. Sessions, pardon, asked the question – When will we get that analysis about, information about the effects of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges? The chairman of the then 4 House, Mr. Tihić, informed me that they had sent a memo, so OHR did not respond, so they sent a memo again and by May there was no reply from the Office of the High Representative. Now my question, or I still can't formulate it, I'll ask it later, is that the High Representative completely ignoring the College?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2854	Okay, so you're not happy.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2855	I'm not at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2856	Okay, thank you. An esteemed colleague, delegate Krstan Simić, came forward for the word. Here you go, Mr. Simić. I beg you, Mr. Simić, therefore, now just to make sure of the pleasure... and later to open up the possibility for new questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2857	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The question again about the state of the budget, I am satisfied with both the answer and the response. However, the issue of voting rights in Brcko District related to problems which, under the circumstances, have arisen around citizenship, I would like here... or to seek a supplement. In view of the constitutional arrangement of BiH and the determination of who may be running for member of the presidency, I am speaking according to the current solution, does this mean that in addition to the order of national minorities or others, as anyone already calls it, and the citizens of BiH, the citizens of the Brcko District cannot be nominated as a member of the BiH presidency and whether this discrimination is extended to the BiH District which is... both entities. Furthermore, I will again appeal, nor after the last question and registration of the gentleman, then chairman Sulejman Tihić, I have not received an answer to the question of the famous contracts regarding the Sadiković brothers' affair. There is no answer today, and I see that even in the House of Representatives there is one, as they say, commission that should clarify the role of the very former president, that is, the Director of Indirect Taxation, and in connection with this affair, which mentions that the damage to BiH's budget is about 30 million marks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2858	Thank you, Mr. Simić. The word comes from a distinguished colleague, delegate Dragutin Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2859	The Honorable Presidency. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2860	I'm sorry, you're gonna have to press charges again, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2861	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen. I asked two questions. It's one thing I got an answer to today, so it's one thing from November of 2012, and the other question is April of this year. Of course, when I have to answer the question now whether I'm satisfied with the answer, I can say that I am on the first question, given the content. However, while waiting for this issue for more than 8 months and the issue was related to the census, in the meantime we have changed the law, etc. He speaks only of our relationship to the messengers when we ask a question. The goal of each of these questions is to get it, not to question the question of the question itself, but to get an answer to the current situation at the moment we ask it. After all, eight months, you'll admit, it's too much. And the second question I asked was about the Regulation on the use of academic titles, the acquisition of scientific and professional titles in BiH, and when its adoption could be expected. The question was primarily about life, because of what is really happening to us in practice, and when you read this question then you will see that from 2008 to 2013 it is looking for certain solutions. Given that, at the end of this report, it is said that, after the observations delivered, and the Conference of Rectors, and the inclusion of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, I hope that, as observations arrived in May of this year, we will also be able to expect the adoption of this Regulation in due time. But because of the importance of the question and because of exactly what's happening to us in practice, if this isn't me, I'll ask these questions again, and we'll see when it's settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2862	Thank you, fellow Rodić. A dear colleague, Stjepan Krešić, came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2863	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. On 16 April 2013, I asked two parliamentary questions at the 28th session. One of those questions also referred to Corridor 5c, the southern section of the highway. I got the answer, and I'm happy with the answer because that's where the facts of the truth come out, which I've been offered, and the last time I'm going to ask a representative question, and that truth that's in my answer irritates me, and probably the public. So the route of the highway from Zvirović, the Zviroviće nodes to Mostar is completely disputed and the construction will stop, obviously someone is interested in having that part of the highway challenged south. How do you know that part of the highway from the Biac border crossing to the Zviroviće node is under way and is working full steam and will be completed next year. But the problem is that the highway can't work any further because it's a disputed crossing over Neretva, meaning part, the Zvirovići section – Pocitel, whether it's south or north, refers to the Počitel point. And I urge the competent institutions to define the route as soon as possible, means crossing over Neretva and part of the highway towards Mostar. In response, 6 says Poddinica Počitel – Zvirović in the length of 11 km after defining the position of the bridge Holiday according to an agreed credit agreement with the European Bank should continue. So, this stock is not defined at all, so next year in the sixth month, if Bog gives up the stock to Zvirovic, the highway stops and doesn't go any further. I ask you nicely, all competent institutions, to define the route to Mostar, and to continue building, we need investments to change the state and this anemia and this, this poor state of state. I mean to appeal and ask the question again, because at the end of the answer it says – for Mostar – the holiday of length 47 km is a controversial position of the route in the wider area of Blagaja and making some new study and project documentation, it is not even current, so I appeal to the Ministry of Transport and Communication that part of the highway, meaning the disputed, from Zvirović to Mostar, to be defined as soon as possible, so that the construction of that part of the highway can continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2864	Thank you, Mr. Krešić. A distinguished colleague, delegate, Mehmed Bradarić, came forward for the word. Here you go, Mr. Bradaruć.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2865	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. At the 23rd session of the House of Peoples, I actually asked for a review of paid stimulation for the period 2008. In 2012, and I get answers in fragments, so this is probably not the end either, so I haven't even commented on this question yet, but I can draw some conclusions. So here, no matter what they call, those who pay it, to the Law on Administration, to the Law on Payments and Receipts, to the Law on Payments, etc. Excessive stimuli. Here, every time they give incentives to the secretaries, and ministerial assistants, and advisors, there is no advisor who has not received, etc., so that there is an injustice, therefore excessively given, and on the other hand there is injustice. And here's one warning to the Council of Ministers to pay attention to such a thing, I think it's inappropriate to give such stimulation to one another and not to give to the other at this time. And I've submitted two initiatives to two separate sessions of people's homes, I haven't received a single answer, I see that, I've also addressed the Joint College precisely because of seriousness, and I can see that it will only be found the day after tomorrow at the Joint College, although this has long been directed. So I won't comment on one, but I want another. So, one initiative was to establish an investigation committee to verify the indicators and claims at the Directorate for indirect taxation relating to the financial report, as well as the liability and code of conduct of staff in institutions. Just what counterpart Krstan Simić said earlier, there are many problems and what we read and what we see and what we get written. I have called on the letter I received from the Directorate for Indirect Taxation, signed letter, very seriously, very serious indications, not to mention the cases of "Panama", "Sadiković", etc., and in this respect a joint commission should be formed. And we see that that House of Representatives did it, so here's to paying attention to the Joint College, so it's to be a joint committee that, here's to deal with this issue. That's it. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2866	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. Mr. Krunoslav Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2867	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I asked this question about the use of the Busko Lake hydropotentials a year and a half ago at the 14th session, and here's the answer. In the meantime, however, there was a joint session of both homes where I had different concepts of the question, or I asked it differently, because I was interested, and I was interested in some other answers. Then at that joint session, I got the same answer, and I reacted, I said, that the data in that answer was simply not correct. Now I'm getting the same answer again with incorrect data and it's completely diametrically contrary to the real situation, and I don't know if it's the inconclusiveness of the ministry, the government or I don't know what the reason I'm getting these answers. For example, it is said that according to the Law on the separation and direction of part of the company's income achieved by the use of hydroaccumulation facilities, 0, and 5 fenings per kWh of produced energy, and this Law was changed in 2009, so 4 years ago and that amount was increased to 1 fening. For Bog's sake, does it take four years for the ministry to determine what we're charging in a country based on the use of these potentials. So, with this answer, I'm completely dissatisfied, because even worse, as 45% in favour of the canton budget, 40% in the water agency, 15% in favour of the Protection Fund, it's also not true. I don't understand why we're asking questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2868	Thank you too, Mr. Vrdoljak. An esteemed colleague, Delegate Nermina Kapetanović, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2869	Mr. Chairman. I've asked a lot of questions and most of the questions I'm not happy with, but we seem to be conducting a dialogue with certain ministries is absolutely absurd, pointless, and I think that in some ways we are humiliating ourselves by insisting forever on the same questions with unquality answers that we've been waiting for for a very long time. But I would like to comment on one answer to the question I have asked about spending the budget reserve's budget of half a million marks, with regard to the payment of salaries for eight newly employed in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the purchase of new cars and some other expenses. I thank you for the fact that the College of the Secretariat has delivered me, therefore, an act in which it is said to be all by law, I had no doubt that outside the legal framework it has been established to me, but I wonder as a member of the Administrative Commission, and I believe that all other colleagues present here and who are members of the Administrative Commission can remember that, by the conclusion of the Administrative 8 Commission, we have said that there is no employment, no new employment, therefore, in this term of office, so it is said. And, well, I wonder why we did the employment of eight newly employed employees whose salaries amount to 140 or 150 thousand marks. But the less I worry about it, the less I worry about it, the less I get it, the less I get it, the less I get it, the less I worry about it. So let's keep in mind that it's buying new cars. Now I wonder, taking care of the information I received from the media, that the chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, Mr Bećirović, believes that significant savings can be created by selling out a complete rolling stock, then I wonder who is wrong here, whether cars are being bought or not, if we sell cars, if we sell them for what, 300 and a few thousand marks to buy new cars. I absolutely think that at a time like this, it's a real nonsensical time. But there's one more thing that bothers me more than these cars, and that's a fact, it's not normal and it's not natural that the example works in the Research Centre for a professor of physical culture. With all due respect to the gentleman, I do not know the personality absolutely, nor do I want to offend a person, but it is not natural that in addition to 8 or 9, perhaps more people who are currently in the positions of medium-level professional equipment within the BiH Parliamentary Assembly by cabinets, people with completed Faculty of Philosophy, the Faculty of Political Sciences, doctors of sociological sciences, lawyers, graduate lawyers, it is not normal for us to then receive newly employed when we could only re-distribute, therefore, existing staff who are already with high-level readiness to certain positions without newly created employment. This creates great costs for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, but what is even worse is that we do not respect the decisions and attitudes of the Administrative Commission and we are leading to absurd action, so we are doing absurdly the work and conclusions of the Administrative Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2870	Thank you. Just for the sake of the public, so that option is not possible, that translation, because when a change in the level of a civil servant has to exist so-called. external competition. So it's not any irrationality as far as I understand it, it's simply respect for the legal provisions as they are. Okay, considering Mr. Košarac didn't answer, fine. Since we've exhausted this part of this agenda, we're moving to the other part of this agenda point, and that's asking new delegates questions. Here you go. The word came from a distinguished delegate, Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2871	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, vice-president, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers in the Council of Ministers and all distinguished guests, I warmly welcome you all. In the context of the parliamentary issues, I have one question and one initiative, and my delegation question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers, and through the Council of Ministers on Integrated Border Management, the Directorate for Irregular Taxation and the Border Police of BiH, which reads, in the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and BiH on border crossings signed on 20 June 2013, the categorisation of border crossings towards which international 9 road traffic of passengers and goods subject to inspection has been determined by the border crossings of Biac and Gradiška. In addition to these two BiH crossings, both the border crossing and the international road traffic of passengers and goods Orasje – Izačić – Gorica and Ivanica, among which is not the Kamensko border crossing. I ask the institutions what criteria have been used for this type of categorisation, especially when the border crossing of Kamensko has been built and financed by the EU Fund and opened in 2005 with its necessary infrared structure, and it has not been found in the second, nor in the first category of border crossings such as Ivanica, Gorica, Izačić and Orasje? What was the delegation for the negotiations conducted when three border crossings of Ivanica, Bijaća and Gorica for the transport of all types of goods were categorized at a length of 80 km, and no border crossing of the first or second category required for the phytosanated review was established in the territory of Gorica to Izačić? In a way, the basis for this matter is also an initiative to amend the existing Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and BiH, and it reads - the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and BiH on border crossings, in Article 1a), established border crossings for inter-ordinary road traffic of passengers and goods subject to inspection controls, Bijac and Gradiška, and Article 1b) of the four border crossing points of Ivanica, Gorica, Izačić and Orasje, for the transport of plant goods, in brackets, (fruits and vegetables). As the border crossing points mentioned above are not the border crossing of Kamensko, this is by means of an initiative to amend the Treaty, in the sense that the border crossing of the Kamenska route to the category of crossings that involve the traffic of goods requiring inspection of imports and exports of high tariff goods and plant origin. At the same time, I propose an amendment to point (e) of Article 1 which provides that the Billy Brig - Vaganj border crossing, the border crossing, should be categorised to the border crossing for international road traffic of passengers or to the category of other border crossings for international traffic of passengers and goods. Explanation: The Kamensko border crossing gravitates six municipalities from Hercegbosan County, as well as part of municipalities from space, both the Central Bosnian County and Hercegovina-Neretva County and is built and financed by the European Commission's Fund according to European standards. It is located between the Gorica and Izačić border crossing and within 300 km there is no border crossing for international road traffic of passengers and goods subject to control, compliance with market standards and the establishment of health regularity in transport, while in the area of 80 km, from Ivanica to Gorica, there are three border crossings, first and second categories. When it comes to the retegorisation of the small border crossing of Billy Brig – Vaganj in the border crossing for the traffic of passengers and goods, we consider this to be significant and justified when considering the fact that the length of the journey towards Split and Central Dalmatia is significantly shortened from the area of central and northwest space of BiH, especially when we have in mind the fact and we keep justified from the point of view of the interests and well-being of all citizens living in the area. Thank you very much. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2872	Thank you, too. The next line of waiting is distinguished colleague, delegate Krstan Simić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2873	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have this one on two questions. First, there is information in some media that the central marking of the start of the Great War, or First World War, that was the introduction to a century to be forgotten as soon as possible, will be held in Sarajevo. Well, given that in BiH it is a political question even if the Drina River, the Drina River, flows by water or a series of water, I can imagine what kind of political dispute, what kind of political turbulence can cause one of these events. So I would like information – Is it true, if so, which institution is in charge and is preparing for this great event? Whether these preparations cover all the personalities that BiH has in its constitutional regulation and not to come to the election year to have just one huge rock in the shoe, discussing everything with both scientific and quasi scientific positions, but mostly from day-to-day politics. Also, a question about this – Is it true that in Sarajevo there is a monument to Franc Ferdinandar? If so, who is behind such a single project?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2874	Who are you asking?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2875	Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers is also the next issue. Respecting the importance of war crimes from the point of view of BiH, the right to justice of all victims in BiH, I would pray if there are data, and I think there are, to get an answer – how many are a total of convicted persons for war crimes since the beginning of the defence and conflict, because we know that during the war there have been some processes, so far, and possibly, that these data are separated by entities and at the level of the state, to see what the real effect of bh society is in the process and creating preconditions for a true reconciliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2876	Thank you, too. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2877	Thank you, Chairman. My question is this. In the first six months of 2013, according to statistics, over 177 million KM has been allocated to imports of meat, fruit, meat processing of BiH. I am fully aware of the situation BiH is in and how much will, knowledge and desire to find 11 answers to many questions. One of these issues is, above all, the protection of domestic production for the simple reason why it is a great opportunity for us to take advantage of the comparative advantages that BiH has in the areas of agriculture, forestry, tourism and water industry. The question is – What are the measures and priorities in those areas that are planned to be taken in 2013 and how to realise them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2878	Thank you, dear colleague Rodić. Dear colleague Mladen Ivanić came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2879	Here, so I'm going to ask the question – is after this answer that I received, that OHR has not responded, I ask the question of the College, does the College of the People's House intend to take any action to discuss the effects of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges after two years of waiting, and based on the conclusion of this House? I mean, this has become really funny already. The BiH court says we have not appointed foreign judges, we cannot evaluate them. The D.A. says we didn't set them up, we can't evaluate them. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council says, we didn't ask them, and then they all refer to OHR and then OHR, if I understood correctly, hasn't said since December of last year either that or not to the College and everyone accepts it as something completely normal. I just don't know where that fear of foreign prosecutors and judges comes from anymore. Believe me, it's not that hard. That's why I think we need to sit down once and do that analysis and finally see if they've made the effects, what the positive effects have been for this society, what the positive effects have been for the judiciary and what's out of that very big announced reform and any. And I'm really asking the College to try to take this my question as seriously as possible. I will be pleased with the answer – no, that you have no intention of doing anything else. I'm happy with that, too. It'll show the real situation where we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2880	Thank you, too. I realize we've exhausted this agenda point. Moving to the next point three, Ad. 3. Discussing information on the security of work in BiH institutions delivered for protests held from 05th to 07th of July 2013 You received information on the state of security of work in BiH institutions submitted by the Directorate for the Co-ordination of BiH Police Authorities, 18.06.2013, the Council of Ministers of BiH Conclusion of 27.06.2013, a letter from the Chair of the Council of Ministers of 24.06.2013, 12 and a response from the Office of the Interior Ministry of Canton Sarajevo and the Information on the measures taken and activities of police officers of the BiH Police Coordination Directorate since 19.06.2013 and the conclusions of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH of 25.06.2013. At its 49th session, held on 08.07.2013, the BiH Joint Defence and Security Commission referred to the systematicisation and harmonisation of 17 proposals for conclusions. You know those conclusions, I'm not going to read them here. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go. My dear colleague, Martin Raguž, came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2882	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, warm greeting to all present. Here, let's break some ice around this important agenda point. We, the participants of these events that we were either as representatives within the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building or in another function, or outside, or as representatives of media, international institutions, organisations, all factors and factors in society, were able to see what happened here that day in and around the BiH Parament building. The question is which conclusions are drawn from all this. My intention here isn't today to get into some wide-ranging lab that's led to all this and how everyone who's responded. My intention is to, as a representative in the House of Peoples and as president of one of the parliamentary parties, say the following – no one has the right to question the work of BiH institutions as the first message. No matter what circumstances were preceded, whether or not he was threatened or not, the work of institutions and broken law. In this regard, I think that the conjectures and messages that could be read afterwards must never be repeated in BiH. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this for two reasons. First, the protests were, I was in direct communication with people, although the House of the Peoples was not ambushed, when I tried normally, because that day three or four times I went through and came back, normally tried to get out again, I saw in the eyes of the people who protested, and in their demands justifiable dissatisfaction with the work of all of us in... And these are the facts that we, given our overall effect and the effect of our work both in Parliament and through other institutions, cannot escape from. I don't want to run away from that responsibility either personally or as the leader of one party. And personally, I may have responded to the public by sending a message that this is the last warning to all of us to work more responsibly and better in function and to satisfy the interests of citizens and of this country. And that's my attitude that I repeat here today, when it comes to citizens' protests. But also, all of us who were inside saw that the institutions were prevented from working and acting normally as institutions, both Parliament and the Council of Ministers. And it must never happen again. Why have they been prevented, with which all the goals, this may require a broader elaborate and I think, perhaps even today is not the time or place to talk in this way, but it is certainly enough to indicate the following. So, on a political break in the morning at 5:00, we had two situations. One who said Sarajevo is an absolutely insecure city, and there is nothing more to ask for and others who say there was no threat to the work of the institutions at all. So, there wasn't one objective assessment of the situation, and I'm afraid that even today, reading all these reports, we still don't have. And I want to read about it by reading this report from the Directorate say a few things that I think are very important. 13 So, in the report issued by the Council of Ministers Chairman, the Council of Ministers' Office said – The conditions in which the Directorate carried out physical security of buildings, under one – the protests were not announced to the Ministry of Interior Canton of Sarajevo, which is the authority responsible for public gatherings. That's the first thing. The second thing – The Directorate was not familiar with the organizer of the protest which would under the applicable law have the obligation to establish... The second thing – The Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities was the proportion of the number of Protestants, their activities, aggression, strengthened the insurance to available people, who were at that moment at the disposal of management, and this ranged from 42 to 242, but under two – the Directorate has no police capacity to control the masses. You watch my grades here and what grades I'm facing here. And we still don't have one united assessment, nor the Ministry of Security, nor the Council of Ministers on all these elements. I'm just gonna get them to come up with a conclusion that I want to make in the end. Furthermore, the Directorate had at no time had the capacity to deblock institutions' facilities on its own, and that would not result in a difficult threat to the lives of people and property. The decision to limit the movement of persons blocked by institutions has been made solely for their safety, until conditions for their safe evacuation are obtained. And please pay attention to this, under four – Head of the Directorate, in the period from 14:00 to 16:00 hours they failed to communicate with Canton Sarajevo police leadership. There's no communication for two hours how we're gonna handle things at all. And now, we have, of course, a proposal for a measure that has its own logic, if... now that, after everything that has happened, there is yet to be a Memorandum of Joint Action, police agencies in crisis situations, under b) a Memorandum of Cooperation, mutual support and coordination of activities in the field of information and protection of persons and... So we don't have those memos at all, and we're talking about the efficiency of institutions. I'm still not saying that this Directorate isn't filled with 30 and something percent and all the other elements, etc. So that's it. We have a report from the Independent Committee that we received as agents. And let me just say, read and remind us of the first three conclusions. An independent committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly finds that the protests were held on 05th to 07th06th and blockages of BiH institutions' buildings have caused serious damage to BiH. That's what the Independent Committee finds. And look, we've said before what are the conditions in which the most important coordination institutions act and that give that kind of assessment themselves. So, please, who is now responsible for why this damage has been done to BiH? That's my first question. I want a clear answer, as an envoy here, from the authorities. I don't see that answer here yet. I see him, but I don't see him, I don't see him being explicit. Under 2. - The Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly finds that competent police agencies have not used the experience of attacking the United States Embassy. Why didn't they? Under 3. – The Independent Committee accepts the report of the Directorate for the Coordination of Police Authorities as objective, and I believe it cannot be concluded that there have been significant failures in the work of the Head of the Directorate for Coordination of Independent... etc. So in a situation where BiH should come in direct contact with the strongest, superior integration of the EU in Europe, 01/07, a thousand and a few kilometres of borders, this is happening in the BiH capital. That's how I read the message politically. And so, I want to say, therefore, that we need a special 14 session to schedule either the House of Peoples or both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly on the subject of BiH institutions' work from political, security to... if we want to be responsible for this trail. Under 2. – Thank Bog, and I welcome, here is that everyone has made an effort to re-launch the Council of Ministers, which first launched further, to move forward with work and continued work in institutions are such problems that without the work of the institutions it is not possible to solve at all. It's no shame to have a problem, it's an institutional shame not to solve it. And below 3. – in order to truly prevent this situation for all time and I think that in the 21st century and, here's what Mr Simić says, after 100 years of the Sarajevo assassination, not wanting any parallels in his debate to connect with that 100th anniversary about the Sarajevo assassination, my message is next – so BiH institutions must work uninterrupted. In order to ensure this, it is necessary to redefine the position, both constitutional and legal, of the BiH institution. In my view, too, it is only possible for the BiH institutions to be under a special governance regime, which is to be within the district within Sarajevo. If we want to be responsible for everything, what happened and never happen again, and according to different political interpretations, I think it's the only serious answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2883	Thank you, too. The word has an esteemed colleague, delegate Krstan Simić, if he is ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2884	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A good part of the discussion I had in mind was presented by Mr Raguž, concerning specific objections about one report and another. So, saving time, I'm just going to connect to this and point to the problems that have come up here. It is true that the events that occurred in front of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly have caused serious damage to Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I fear if this were to happen again that nothing would be the way it was in BiH. And that's one very, very warning signal that bh society is really on glass feet and that events that often and thoughtlessly occur can increase even more so that these glass legs are fragile. Of course, I also have to make an observation about how to approach this problem. I'm going back to whether Drina's running by the water or down the water, because we just had different attitudes about this event. From those who minimized him to those who dramaticd him. However, there was no need for either, nor any other, because the problem itself was too serious and it had to be taken exactly as it was. It was not just Parliament's work, as Mr Raguž pointed out, that the safety of the people who were in Parliament was also at stake. I contacted some people, people were really scared. They felt uncomfortable and felt that something was going on that should not be appropriate anywhere, in any country, even those we often call bananas, let alone in one country that is today, in BiH and with democracy and with history and with the past. So... and I think that the political consensus on what was going on first had to be reached, just 15 because of the message that it would not happen in the future. Of course I also condemn the politicisation of these events from some other initiatives that were not aimed at creating an atmosphere to keep working here. Also, I must point out that these events have even opened up the issue of arrangements, or organization of bh structures. On the one hand, you saw very different steps of individual leaders, the head of institutions, and even so far it went to be simple, that both were transferring their responsibilities. It is crucial here that the police responsible are the Canton of Sarajevo, which is solely responsible for the organisation, security and implementation of such gatherings. I don't see any reason to make Mr. Selimović justice that they didn't have the potential, it's not their jurisdiction either, to be clear. We don't have to make police with the police now, the police over the police, and create new people, if someone doesn't do their job, we need to call the backup police that's above. Here's a question that needs to be answered clearly. Furthermore, the question is here, which in a certain way opened in several of its steps by the Minister of Security, Mr Radončić. He in one interview, I don't know in one of the electronic media, says there is no coordination of these security agencies, bodies today, and that he as a minister doesn't run those institutions. So there's this question that we had, and everyone here is longer in politics, when we've been making and we've been getting the OHR flossules, especially when Mr. Ešdaun was there, that the police have to be independent, professional, depolitical, and that we've been doing police structures at the time, so I call it conditional, we've separated it completely from politics, that we've been introducing police directors, that the ministers should be just, what they should be, political figures that are obliged to provide the legislative framework for the activities of the institutions in the police, to provide funds, to provide logistics, and not to deal with politics, because in that direction, if we go in that direction, the police become political parties, given the status of ministers. So we brought in the independent committees. Now the question arises, having a situation like this, whether our practice, and we often followed international representatives, or various emissaries, and without criticism and critical attitudes approached and implemented many decisions that later broke our heads. Just now Ivanic was talking about foreign prosecutors. Today we can't get an answer whether it was a benefit or a pity. Take only the structure of how many charges they dropped, so you will see that they were harmful and fatal to the BiH judiciary. Now I ask the question – do these events point to us that we have to or define the legal frameworks of our police, whether we continue to bring the police under the authority of the ministries, as Mr Radončić said - I have no jurisdiction over the police. I don't think that the police should still be independent, be professional, and, of course, in the context of these events, the question arises whether or not she is, whether the independent committees are party people again, and probably are, whether we have an influencing party on the police. You've heard a lot of words here that the Cantonal police in Sarajevo were under the influence of one party, I won't talk about it or think about it, but these are very serious topics that require a serious analysis. I'm afraid they're always people. I repeat again, our ministers and police, from canton to Mr. Radončić, mean from the lowest, act like police patrols to me. They're reporting who's been arrested, why he's been arrested, whether there's some action in progress. Please, it's not a police minister's job, it's a police director's job to be separated from politics. 16 police directors must implement what the police exist for – law enforcement, protection of citizens, etc. So this is where you ask questions about how to get over it. And finally, in order to avoid any delusion, of course, that no one disputes the right of citizens, it even needs to be affirmed, that in the legal way they provide their position, to bring their satisfaction and dissatisfaction with the work of each individual, the institution, but obviously it is here that we are silent in front of one fact that this assembly was completely illegal, illegal, and that in this assembly, that this assembly really represented a harsh violation of the law. Because it hasn't even been reported to the competent institutions, and in every city today, you have to report to the police, get the police's approval, along the way, and the police set certain conditions for you, because the organisers of such a rally themselves are obliged to provide certain elements of the security and protection of the organization that this is not happening. This was, free to say one disastrous act in the interests of BiH and its citizens, because simply someone thought they could simply capture, literally say capture, MPs, representatives of the international community, officials and hold them hostage, and we... we don't say it was that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2885	Thank you, Mr Simić. The word has a distinguished colleague, delegate Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2886	Thank you very much. Here, the Honorable Chairman, once again, is on the subject of the state of security, in a way, that is, at this point in the agenda. When counterpart Simić earlier said that a good part of the debate had been taken from him by his colleague Raguž, of course, I will also try to make those of myself, in a way, the thoughts I wanted to say when it comes to this topic, the topic of security, which is certainly important and interesting, both for BiH and its relations, I will try not to repeat what they said. But really, considering and looking at this, in a way, I'm particularly pleased to see, and to characterise it in one way, because maybe it's a clear way that, if we can talk about getting out of this situation, or preventing these situations in due course, it's the least we need is a unique attitude, both about what happened and what we need, what we need to stand behind, and these are some proposals of measures and conclusions. Of course, I will also say when it comes to the events that were called in the media in different ways, events of the people, etc., they had the least cause in implementing the BiH Constitutional Court's decision concerning the adoption of the Single Parent Count Act. Of course, we are all witnesses of this, especially when the media who have contributed to the whole situation have also contributed in a way, unfortunately that public services have done so, and also, of course, written and all the other media, used rhetoric, we can freely say the Hague, as if it were reported from a certain state, it is ugly for me to say the word war or so. Simple, and what of course after that come and say and say? However it was the safety of the people who were present at that time in the parliamentary institutions, I speak more as a person in terms of protecting the integrity of the institutions, and here is what the colleagues were talking about. 17 When some people asked me about media statements, of course very rarely, they asked me if you were afraid, I said I was not afraid. First of all, I'm not afraid, if I'm afraid of doing this job, I'm not afraid for attitude, let alone fear for some, I don't know, security reasons whether I should come or not. I believe that I base this on living in some kind of, and we want to live, in a state that has institutions that are willing to respond to their needs by virtue of what they are founded on. Of course, this case denies us, so it doesn't tell us any nearer, so here's the conclusion, which came in some way, and from the board, and from the information on the Council of Ministers, from the Police Body Coordination Directorate we see and arrive at a general conclusion that institutions are not prepared to respond to these situations. We immediately question what to do in that sense so that things don't happen to us. We must do everything to change the legislation if this situation, or if agencies and directors, or police bodies cannot manage such matters. And if it's a political background that's being talked about and we may not be able to rule out, then I'd say that really every one of us should be aware that everyone has the right to express dissatisfaction, but that the street can't send us a message that they, on the street, are going to bring or change, as well as the individual laws, either the Code of Origin, or this and that. I think everyone has the right to express their dissatisfaction, but it is known that it is also through the law, which the colleague said, with the announcement, with the exact time and with the approval, which means that we are also coming to the conclusion that these events were outside the law, which means that we are calling on institutions that have a job to determine responsibility and to process all of them. I hope that we will all be like this and that we will not go over these things so easily, especially an institution whose job it is to determine responsibility and which, here by the House of Representatives, is invited already in a few to determine the responsibility maybe and those they didn't even know about, but the institution really needs to do its job thoroughly and responsibly. And I believe that today from this session, because we have many conclusions ahead of us that have been sent to the Defence and Security Committee, we should in some way take all and thoroughly discuss and come to some constructive conclusions that are good for the interests, above all BiH, and for its international reputation, that is, the world's reputation, and today for all its protests. And in that sense, the conclusions should be that we are going to change the legislation to allow all police agencies, directorates and services to really respond to all situations, including those crisises, and in terms of those which are now being determined by the prosecutions, to sort of process themselves and to get feedback on this House of People. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2887	Thank you, too. The word is from a respected colleague, Sulejman Tihić. Here you go, Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2888	Ladies and gentlemen, here we go again. This is a topic that has long occupied the public's attention, and here we are in Parliament. We have had demonstrations, peaceful demonstrations of citizens in front of the BiH Parliament who have their own justification since the Council of Ministers has not proposed, or Parliament has not adopted the Single Parent Number Act, which is why citizens, in particular newborns, have major problems in terms of treatment, in terms of travel and everything else. These 18 demonstrations have been repeated several times, and they have confirmed their, so to speak, peaceful character except for the first night when it is limited, in a certain way the right to freedom of movement of state MPs. And I believe that freedom, i.e. the security of MPs, includes freedom of entry, of leaving Parliament, must not be threatened by anything, by any demonstrations, and that police structures must ensure it. However, demonstrations like demonstrations, no government ever like demonstrations or protests. You know me, we have to get used to it in a certain way and we don't always consider it if someone organizes a demonstration that threatens the safety of those against whom these demonstrations are directed. It clearly stems from all documents that there was no coordination, there was no good coordination between state-level police agencies with federal, or cantonal police. Well, here's what certain delegates have already said. I think it's a lack and legal regulation. We have pointed out before that this police reform has not been done properly and that, in this sense, it is necessary to remove certain shortcomings so that, in order not to happen, I don't know, the Director of Coordination cannot contact the Cantonal Police for two hours, or possibly create assumptions that they can, in fact, refer to the lower authorities, not just requests, but orders. But in any case, I think this issue is too politicized, you know, that certain political forces have used it to, in a certain way, devalue Parliament's work even more, to do less, etc. I know, I was an MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and look out for me, they rehearsed a gun, it was in the rooms, there was an investigation, it's known, it was probably Krstan Simić, etc. We know how we came there to Parliament, to the National Assembly. It was, once followed by SFOR transporters, once the RS police. We know what happened in Trebinj when he was the cornerstone. We know what happened when he was the cornerstone of Ferhadia. But it never occurred to us that we would say that we would not attend the meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We always did, you know. So here we have today's reports from the Council of Ministers saying assumptions have been created for the work of BiH institutions. That's what the Independent Committee says, as says this Police Coordination Agency. What else can we do that, here we are looking for, possibly, for a certain legislative regulation to be corrected, to be done, to avoid these problems, and for freedom of movement, for the work of MPs to be even better secured. Is it possible through these memoranda or the amendments to the law let them see these police structures that deal with it? And the less we talk about this, the more we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2889	Thank you. The word is from a respected colleague, Mr. Staša Košarac. Here you go, Mr. Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2890	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome the working presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, other guests and, of course, colleagues and colleagues. It's obvious that on June 05, 06 and 07 something didn't work. And it's quite clear that we're all running away from an adequate answer to the question of what didn't work out those days, June days, and what is 19 additionally worrying is that we're trying to mitigate an event that was 05th, 06th and 07th of June of this year. I think that the attempt to mitigate the situation that was in those days will not help us solve the problem, because I must remind you that we were in a situation that, in the Jašarević case“ there is also a tendency of mitigation, so that after that event, we had another event here in front of the BiH Parliament. The question can be asked – what can be next. And what we can least do and what is least expected of all of us in the BiH Parliament, we are looking for adequate treatment for those who were most responsible for the events they were in front of the BiH Parliament building and for all of us to work together to discover precisely those who designed such events, because I must remind you that very often in Sarajevo, everyone is making a fool of themselves. I repeat, many crazy people are being made in Sarajevo. I understand that in 05, there were 40 mothers and families with children who were away from Parliament's building and expressed their democratic right not to be satisfied. I understand that two hours later there were 80 of them. And that is a democratic expression of will, but you can't explain to me that "Horde evil" and "Maniacs" have something with a unique home number. Niko of us prevents citizens from expressing their dissatisfaction with certain policies of the institution, and let them do so every time, and we invite them to do so every time in accordance with the law in the defined space, without obstructing the work of the institutions. This is a defeat of BiH, that it cannot, using legal regulations, make it possible for institutions to work normally. In doing so, I must tell you that the defeat of BiH is that the protesters are asking to speak to Valentina Inck rather than to legitimately elected representatives in the Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers, the Presidency or not to know where else, confirming that Valentin Incko as a vegetarian, as a spice, interferes in everything. We cannot talk about building BiH institutions, its progress, etc. if we have such behaviour in part of the international community. We can stare all we want and talk about how peaceful the protests were. These were not peaceful protests as soon as more than 100, 1,500 people were trapped in BiH institutions. We've got a target hanging around our necks. Whether we're aware of it or not, I don't know. But we must be fully aware of the fact that we must seek the responsibility of those who did not act on the 05th evening, so that there is no later development of the event on 06th and 07th deep into the night. I believe that Parliament must best show itself in terms of its express position that it is necessary to start responsibility for those who have done nothing. We simply need to find out who these people are and who did not comply with the applicable regulations. Legal regulations that are in place, I stress once again, allow competent police agencies to do their job. The amendments to the legislation shall not be taken into account, as this does not apply either. I want one more thing to apostrophe that has a political context. It was actively participating representatives from the RS, when it comes to the adoption of the Single Parent Number Act. Obviously there was, and again, I stress that in Sarajevo many are making a fool of themselves, trying to make a trendy approach to transfer the field to representatives from the RS. And it was done by a part of the international community, a part of a particular political public here in Sarajevo and a part of the media. Political representatives of the RS played an active role in the Council of Ministers and, of course, in the House of Representatives. The lack of relations in the Federation tried to transfer to BiH level. And I didn't talk for no reason about the Jašarević events, and I didn't talk about absolute for no reason, I would say illusory, hinting at any reform or any changes to the law in the area of police structures. Because I'm going to remind you that even in front of the U.S. Embassy, the Federal and the Cantonal MUP, as the Independent Committee found, was responsible, that the highest responsibility was to the Federal and the Cantonal MUP. And there is no need at all at any level of government to try in Sarajevo 20 ways to question police reform and hint. Police reform is over, constitutional jurisdiction exists, and don't let us dream of something that can't be implemented. Let us implement what can be implemented. What needs to be pointed out, and we had on the Defence and Security Commission, I'd say sonant tones, I think the Independent Committee did part of the job by looking at the situation he got from the Directorate. And then we found out on the Commission itself for Defence and Security that BiH was damaged. And then we heard from certain members of the Defence and Security Commission that it was not an adequate conclusion. We heard. There are many present members of the Commission who have been able to hear certain political views that they have not been applied. We think so. There was also a tendency to transfer responsibility to the Police Coordination Directorate from the Cantonal MUP and the Federal MUP. There is an opinion and recommendation from the Independent Committee, when it comes to the Federal MUP and the Cantonal MUP. What can the BiH Parliament do about it? That's the key question of what can we do together? The House of Representatives has authorised the competent Commission for Defence and Security to draw up a summary of all information and come out with a proposal. I propose that, after obtaining the Commission's opinion on defence and security, the Joint Meeting of both homes is scheduled and that at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, we discuss these issues at the Joint Meeting and then show how much power and responsibility we have to address these issues through BiH institutions. Given that I have answered the word and that Mr. Raguž is missing, I would like to say that any summoning of the Sarajevo District will not contribute to resolving the problem in Sarajevo, nor in BiH. I think it can complicate the additional situation, because it should be said that there is no agreement on any reconstruction, neither territorially nor constitutionally in BiH. Therefore, it is quite clear that no larger appeal should be made, I would say, the change in the BiH Constitution on the basis of such statements, which Mr Raguž has. I understand that he wants to do his part of the job and he has political views that are legitimate here, but I don't think that helps solve the problem, and I want to say it here in the House of Peoples. The question, in the end, is what can the BiH Parliament do on these issues, how much we will endure in all of this, how much we will seek full responsibility, because I must say that a significant part of the responsibility stands on the prosecution. The question is how long will we endure in that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council insists on how much the BiH Prosecutor General will insist on this, but I would like to warn you that we should not close down and that we should not mitigate the event that took place on June 05th, 06th and 07th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2891	Thank you, too, Mr. Košarac. The word has a distinguished colleague, delegate Dragutin Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2892	Mr. Chairman, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. 21 I would like to say a few words on this subject and I think that from June 05th and 06th, so to this day there have been many assessments, events that have been here in Parliament. Although I was not a direct participant, we are all, both in the House of Representatives and in the House of Peoples, the Parliamentary Assembly and of course there is one collegiate relationship and we all feel that anyone that something is happening is something that is not good for the institution in which we work. Of course, after a certain period of time, perhaps we can think about everything and look for a way out of this situation. But the only way out of this situation is by identifying the facts that led to all of this. This country has been functioning for 18 years and it's working, and there are different assessments of how, but there are institutions and there are bodies that have their responsibilities and that each should do their job. Of course, what can be worrying or what, even today, after almost a month and a few days from that event, are different grades and those who took part in this event and who were present when it happened. It's all reality and it's all what we've experienced. However, the question arises as to what was to be proved and what were the plans. And in the context of all this, we can say that these protests that were not even the first protests in BiH will probably not be the last, but the assessment of what these protests were this time is the fact that they were not in the spirit of what they were meant to be. Of course, like my colleagues, I believe that will and different opinions can also be expressed by public gatherings, but all of this should happen in a way and as prescribed by law. I personally think that we MPs, as much as we are responsible for our behaviour, as much as we are evaluated in such and such ways, I am convinced that each of us is responsible for the very choice of participation in the BiH Parliament, whether in the House of Representatives or in the House of Peoples, is aware and aware of the decision that should be made and, of course, is responsible if that part of the work is not done properly. However, the assessment of our work is given by everyone, by the public, by NGOs, by individuals, by the media. And to remind you, it's perfectly normal, we're public figures. However, the fact is that we have come, to remind you, in those protests that we have heard, from a unique home number and we have ended with many other requirements concerning both the functioning of Parliament and the status of MPs, etc. I think that might be a clear opinion again, but at times when we were looking for certain solutions and when we were on the threshold of certain events, these events happened. What I have, since we have heard a lot from our colleagues, is necessary to me, and we have these reports, we have many conclusions from committees, I think it is necessary to do a few things in order to get a real way out of this situation. First of all, the security of BiH institutions' work must be unquestionable. Of course, it must be provided by those institutions that are responsible for it. To limit, however anyone assesses, the right movement, whether someone is detained, whether at the time, whether they were regulatory conditions to make certain decisions, certainly they are not. Any decision that's been made under threat, we all know it's nothing in itself. Regardless of the subjective attitude of the individual, I personally think that nothing was normal or regular in those events on June 05th and 06th. I think we need to find out the facts of these events by the end and tell them what really happened, find the culprits, and all for the reasons that we have to make certain decisions about the future, and how it should work in the future. And whether all these institutions are qualified to perform those duties and responsibilities for which they are formed. You know that we in the whole series and here in the work of institutions and parliaments, and if we go to an analysis of the work of various institutions and through audit reports and all, we can see how busy it is for the 22 institutions in BiH, how much it works and how much it exists for itself. It may be a time to deal seriously with this problem for one reason – we are responsible for what we are doing and we need to point out everything that can produce certain crises in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2893	Thank you too, fellow Rodić. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr Dragan Čović. Here you go, Mr. Čović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2894	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished guests. The theme, truth, requires a much deeper analysis than the one we have here today at all. We are only talking about information on the safety of the BiH institutions and they are driving us, through the discussions we have heard so far, to talk about the reasons why we are even on such occasions to discuss the security segment, what is the reason for this, etc. I would share it in a few things, so here, I will try in this short time as far as we can to show one responsibility to those who have had reasons and so far, who will have reason to be on the street in the future, but never to invite them to the streets but to show their dissatisfaction in the right way for what the executive, legislative and judicial authorities in BiH are doing. And that's one dimension of all of this, and it's going to be a permanent category like that. What we must stress today is that we are leading this political life in one environment that is probably difficult to compare with any environment, although there is a recession around the world, so it could be compared in different ways, because everything that we haven't yet lived up to as normal in BiH creates an additional environment for us today that most people don't feel happy in BiH. What should be particularly highlighted are standards that have been tested for a time in the wider region, trying to be lightly, mildly tested again in BiH. The truth is they're doing it quite tangiblely because they're all aware, who are doing it a little bit, on the other hand, that they need to be careful because the question is how much such processes can be managed and where it will end as such. And it's one of the dimensions that needs to be kept a little bit more... Let's try to analyze, in the last year, any media in BiH, any non-governmental institution in BiH, any representatives of international institutions operating in BiH, and not to list further, self-called political analysts who today have more than politicians, who are all really probably and much better paid than premium salaries, here we are politicians here, to encourage dissatisfaction etc. It's, of course, an ambience, once again that we can accept as legal, which is accepted as a standard of behavior throughout the world. Oh, my Bog, that's right. On the other hand, we must be aware that we are trying to build a whole new standard of decision-making through executive, through legislative authority. This time she was mixed up, we're talking about a home of our Parliament, but at that point in this building there was everything and everything, I'd say, I wouldn't want to hurt anyone with this expression. In other words, we want to introduce a new standard that is precisely through a message that will come to us from that side here to define legal solutions, decisions that we make, etc. I have to tell you that in the last few years we have already had such cases at entity level here and that such decisions have been made... both in the Federal Government and in the Federal Parliament. And I hope that what happened a month ago, a month and a half ago, from June 05th to June 07th, we will have one framework, first of all that as responsible people, and I believe that all of us in the House of Peoples, 23 all of us 15 or how many of us there are today, 14 of us are, that we can figure out to what extent we can fix the situation and the ambience in which our people will feel much more comfortable, much safer, in which they will see the perspective and life here and to what extent we have contributed that there is nothing, and to what extent all those others, who are doing these tests today in this area. Because I have to be honest and as president of the HDZ party in the last two, three years I've been talking to every representative of an international institution operating in BiH, outside of BiH, at least several times on the same subject, about some springs. So, what happened in 05th and 07th we don't have to tie to this, but let's not deny that there's already been a year, two days, and today you have representatives of almost all the administrations present in BiH who are calling for change. It would be much more logical, of course, to invite them all to elections, regular or extraordinary, so that the people can choose again what they choose, so that we can thank Bog for providing a normal democratic parliamentary process in BiH at all levels of government. So everything that divides us into a complex BiH in which we want to be three equal peoples and all BiH citizens today is highly tempted, because someone believes that through this very thing can be solved and the judgment of Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci, it may be military property, solve hundreds of other things, and here, let's say, the question that was at that time the subject of interest, at least the first two, three days, is a unique parent number. I'm sure what we experienced back then was one test. We could call it one alarm as we have our own, this is a stupid one comparison but I have to show it in a simple way, when those sirens of ours try 12 hours... don't work. This time those sirens didn't do it we need to know, and let's read it from the reports we have today. We're still not talking about... because it would require a much more detailed discussion. I'm looking at my colleague Ivanić, and I think in the last ten sessions he's been talking about an institution, that he's finally expected to write us one of his views on this whole thing, so here, now let's set up all these institutions how they reacted these days. Of course, since it was in that building, that day in that building, I was on the other side of the case, because just 15 minutes earlier I went to one college here and I gave a lecture, I couldn't go back, right, but the fact that we missed out on behalf of BiH institutions that day, regardless of whether we're talking about the security sector, we're talking about the BiH judicial sector,...the judicial authority as a whole, because I think that the parasystem worked much better than the system we're building or building in the last 18 years. That's the point, because my attempt to talk to at least 20 or 30 people was only as successful as I could have done as Dragan Čović, and nothing more. And most of the people I contacted, who I greatly appreciate, I wouldn't have called them if I didn't appreciate them, were absolutely powerless in those moments, without any information. And that's what you need to worry about. That's why I say that siren didn't work that day. Whether we're going to be able to fix some things soon, I'm saying that to one significant extent, it's up to us here. That's why I first came to the floor, to try to stabilize this system, to somehow create an environment for BiH to function as a normal European state that has its Euro-Atlantic future. I've been aware of these days, and in recent years, and even these few days, there have been a lot of debates about how some politically mounted processes are being made, how some are being removed into a drawer, etc., and it's always in the evaluations of the analysis of such conditions or national or political groups, etc. And it doesn't have to be denied that it's still working as some kind of parasystem. When we talked here and analyzed some of these institutions, we tried to choose nice words, not to hurt anyone, pointing out that there are bad ones, but first of all we should thank the good people, the correct professionals who do the job. But that system doesn't function as a whole, but let's not run away from being part of that system. Whether we speak loudly here about what is wrong, and in this way we change it, because it is our job, whether in this way we will protect both our peoples and all citizens, and also enable BiH's prosperity, I do not see any reason why it does not have its future, or we will let the parainstivities, which still exist, whether it is national, party, or I do not know on which other mechanism, function. In contact with the international community or any other way, if we don't put it in place, I'm afraid the next siren that won't work will mean the end of both this institution and many other institutions in BiH. And that's why I'd say that this is what we should, here today my Bog can do after a month and a half, I'd say, in a peaceful atmosphere to talk about this and build, first of all, an ambience that does not come to this, respecting the right of every citizen of BiH to express his dissatisfaction by standard and norms as the law once again defines it. Representatives of the international community must understand that they must respect the BiH constitutions and laws. As much as we love them as friends, we appreciate them, they have no right to teach in the way they do. I understand their will and their need. A lot of the analysis that was made on the first days was that it was just someone on the outside, not to mention and advertise the sub-levels of products here because it wouldn't be nice, but basically that part of the system doesn't work. Our relationship with them is already lost as such, there is absolutely no trust between us, which we deal with politics, and these institutions that act the way they act. And we better say that in nice words here today and fix things, but in conclusions today, now I'm going to go back to what is crucial, it's... information and security, we need to send a very clear message, one conclusion. He must not melt in a series of powerful questions that we are asking here as representatives of the legislative authority, here I mentioned, he will not be angry with his colleague Ivanić, how many times he has only mentioned and asked us and asked the College to answer, I do not know, which is impossible to answer at the end, until we are questioned whether or not we are doing something, to what extent our responsibility is from those same institutions. So we replaced the issues of the full functioning of the executive, legislative and judicial authorities in BiH. Now, all this has accumulated and we need to realistically assess, above all, whether our security and other agencies in BiH have today responded to the possible new checks of the state we had on 05th to 07th. This time in Sarajevo or several forms in Sarajevo, we also mentioned a shooting that lasted an hour in downtown Sarajevo where there was another discrepancy as it was, tomorrow it could be in another part of the country. I don't want to blame you at all for this state of the media. The media is a product of the ambience and life that we all built together. As far as we've been able to impose ourselves, here as partners gathered around table 15 to solve some of the key topics that we're going to have here today. But the safety element is above all else. How can we guarantee any citizen's safety of any kind in BiH if you are unable to guarantee it to the representatives of the international community, who happened to be here that day, or representatives of the State Parliament, no matter what home it is, or representatives of the executive authority who were also imprisoned here and were neatly, I don't know, ten hours in their offices, without being able to contact anyone, to ask if they can do anything, whether they can do it, and that's their job, right? And on that side, the key conclusion would have to be, not to write us any more reports because those reports were made by who, where there's a gap, etc., but how we're going to practically prevent these situations from happening in the future. 25 Clearly, whoever designed this all together, I personally hold that the event had two contents, is one coincidence of events by momentum and dissatisfactions that we have everywhere in the world, and the other is a skillfully organized segment that no one should conceal and as much as it pleases anyone or not. Now, that segment of the organization just has to be on our desk, I don't believe it will be today, because... it's such a time as it is, but if we don't find a very quick answer for these things, I'm afraid that without reorganizing in the BiH Parliament, we'll have a reorganization of BiH that won't be formal, but the fact is that now, God has given us dear Bog that there has been no incident and that we could all come to work after 10 days, 5 days, or I don't know tomorrow, because most people here,... underestimate, have come to work here every day, even though we haven't come to this job. If anything because of these people, they have the same rights to their freedom of movement, to their own safety as I do, we need to ensure that this system works. That is why I personally think that we will have to call very quickly for a joint session of both houses of the state parliament of all these institutions and agencies. And we'd better discuss here for 15 days on this subject than make analysis of how the paramilitary, or para-intelligence, or para-judicial, or the steam system or that system still works in BiH much stronger than the systems, the weak systems we've built so far. I would like BiH to function as a normal state as soon as possible, to conclude the sides of the seats as soon as possible, and not to list the others and to abandon the economic and social problems of BiH by ensuring that no BiH citizen has a valid reason to express his dissatisfaction with what they are doing... But we also have to send a message to all these agencies today, which analyze what we're saying, that they have to offer solutions to many of the problems that are listed here, not just today through this debate, because that's what we pointed out in time for the right words and that we didn't confront each other here, because even here, when it comes out for a pay phone, we almost know who comes from which party, almost who comes from which people, and not to say from which entity it comes from. That, you don't need a picture at all, is enough and the words listen, someone neutral on the side of the power very clearly sort out where we are. Now, that's BiH, and we can't underestimate that as a fact. And so today and the conclusions, as long as we write, we can spend five hours on conclusions, I think that we should bring them into line with the House of Representatives and as soon as possible lead to a joint session and that we open these issues in one whole way but to the end of content, because we do not forget the time and staff solutions are coming very quickly, we are coming into a position that we are already going to start talking about the elections that will be next year, although they are not yet defined as such, and that we have already dug into some kind of trenches for these next elections and that it is possible that it depends entirely on the assessment of the state of each political capacity in BiH according to... or I don't know whose poll that a similar, equally skilled event will happen tomorrow, in another environment. But also the fact that if we speak openly about these things, if we call all these bosses, all of these institutions, because we appoint them, and almost all of them will be appointed in the next few months, if I'm not wrong, in the second, third month most of these agencies point out mandates, even after the second term I think most of them are coming out, all the tenders will be open in the next few months, then we will try to show that they are politically independent, everyone will write a statement that they are not members of any political party, and is that so. You all know each and every one of these people, so is that so? And it is understandable again to one extent, but it will make a standard of very clear behaviour, that I as a representative of a home as well as you 15 here, as every other BiH citizen knows what rights we are and how much he can endure or draw from the BiH judiciary, from the BiH rule of law, from BiH security agencies. 26 So, in the end, I've experienced too much of this in the last 15 years in different ways that it would be naive to shut up this time. That's why I'm calling without great conclusions here, so a joint session of these two respected homes and that it be all-day dedicated exclusively, unrelated even to the events of 05th and 07th, it can be just one illustration of what was going on at the time. Let's do a real review of what we're doing in these institutions, without... talking about judicial or security institutions, if we don't do it, I'm afraid that one and a hot autumn and another spring is waiting for us in 2014 as next election, although when I'm with these distinguished friends from outside these days, I told them that BiH is neither Egypt nor Syria, nor that I choose others not to hurt anyone, the countries here are our environment here, this is BiH. And do not convince someone that you are able to control the processes because they are whatever they are and whatever the occasion for this process is ultimately going to end up as a national problem, because we have not solved BiH's national problems until the end of how we think it should be solved again. Now, to warn that, to say once again, that next time the siren really doesn't blow up when it's extremely alarming, I think it's time for us to act, and that, in a way, we put these guys aside. Let the media do their job, let these political analysts do their job, so someone pays them neatly. The NGOs, which are once again... the way they pay neatly, so there are you and here, let them do their job, let the citizens judge whether they live according to the man in BiH for whom they have defined themselves, and let us take a step to do much more together than we have done so far. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2895	Thank you, too. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mehmed Bradarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2896	Do your time, people forget what happened yesterday or the switch, let alone forget what happened before, here's what, 40 days and the question is how objective we can be and how far we can make objective conclusions. I'm not sure we can do it after all this time. If by God we had adopted the Law on Parliamentary Control which told us that within three days we had to draw up one piece of information that could give us conclusions on what to do next. I'm worried about one fact, a little bit of a threat in the sense that if the protests happen again, then the question is whether to come to work, etc. Protests will happen, it's your fashion in the world, it's the standards of the world, it's European, it's not our invention, they're legal, they're legitimate and it's going to happen. So, something like that doesn't require a crystal ball. We don't know if there's going to be some kind of fool like Jašarević, etc., but we know this. We assume this so that I am not sure that anyone can say – here I am not coming to work, etc., and there are those who have not come at all and unfortunately most politicized etc. I don't think we should be convinced, I'm not sure we'll be of any use if we can convince what happened on 05th, 06th and 07th, it says here in these materials. It was said the Director of Operations Mr. Hilmo Selimović had said, made the information, now the question is how much, I say, she could be objective, the man said that his concern was, that all the people who were here were concerned, so somewhere over 1,700 people, but also the people who were in front of the institutions there, who had gathered, said that there were no privileged ones. We have to trust him. I don't know if there were 27 privileged in the sense that some of them could go out, but it doesn't matter anymore, some of them shouldn't have, that there they were classified by nationality, that's what I'm saying in the press, etc. The man said that he made a decision about the moment of evacuation, he couldn't have done it before for security reasons... much worse. We produced that BiH is not and will never be questionable, and no one is slow, and we all said it around today, but there will be a black little duck at the end of the line that everyone will shut up. So it will be at the expense of all citizens, regardless of who is called etc., so it will not do good to the citizens of BiH. In the past month or 40 days, many have not come to BiH. She didn't come, the interior and security ministers didn't come to discuss border safety. It's a terrible message that happened, I say, in BiH. IPA representatives didn't come, and here's the presidents of the Council of Ministers and they know, they didn't come for any security reasons, but people just came to tell us that you're not going to get the 5.5m euros we planned for you for IPA funds, so for agriculture, just because we didn't build a spending structure of those funds and we don't have a strategy, a national rural development strategy. So it's a direct damage to BiH. Mrs. Doris pak at the head of the Foreign Policy Committee didn't show up, and we know who that woman was. She managed to work for a little bit in a resolution in the Council of Europe where BiH would suspend from the Council of Europe, where IPA funds would suspend, where it would suspend an external trade agreement, etc., and that would be terrible. A few days ago in Brussels, they said -- you don't have time to solve Sejdic-Finci, spring is out of the question, and the end of the year is out of the question, you might have another chance, here's Mr. Genjac, there's Mr. Krešić, we were, and there's my little one that managed to make some kind of, another round of conversation with Mr. Fil who was that day, and maybe that's how much time we have to solve that question. So we should talk about that judgment about how it's solved, etc., and here we all have our views, we agree but as I say, etc. Mrs. Tanja Fajon said that in September we may have a brutal decision, which is the reintroduction of visas. And that's where we tried to say it wasn't our fault, we didn't have anything to do with it, our citizens were good when they came out, they're okay and they're not making any problems, we're fighting those who are causing problems and we said that. They even tried to compare us with Syria, so we took it from there, etc. The one currently chairing the European Parliament has no idea about the situation in BiH, is not on the agenda and six months is the chairman and of course the man loves the situation because the next, as far as I don't know, 12 years, 14 years will not be the head of this Parliament. Therefore, I think it would be good to discuss the consequences. I'm not up for this persuasion, the question is how objective we can be. And here, I support this conclusion and Mr. Košarac, colleagues Košarac and Mr. Čović to try to sit down together and talk about it but to discuss the most about the consequences that BiH and its citizens are waiting for, no matter who it is called, where it comes from, which political party it belongs to, etc. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2897	Thank you, Mr. Bradarić. On the occasion of the replica there is a word, no, excuse me, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the word has an esteemed colleague, Krstan Simić. Here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2898	Thank you. I typed it wrong, but it's a replica. Mr. Bradarić said one sentence, I will believe that he did not express himself precisely, not that she was the expression of his thoughts when he said there would be more demonstrations and they must not prevent us from doing our job. As far as I am now going to take the right to say to myself, not only on my own behalf, but also on behalf of all those who have spoken, no one has questioned the right of citizens to gather, to express their political stance, even criticism, but everyone in that direction has been unanimous that it must be in accordance with the rule of law, the regulations as it is intended, in the way it is intended. Therefore, I would not like to equate events from especially that first day with the right of citizens to gather, which is one of the highest acts of democratic action in civil democracy. Secondly, we can't talk about the consequences without cause either. If we don't determine the causes that led to this, we can't even establish a good diagnosis, good treatment. No diagnosis, no treatment. And in the end, you also mentioned Mr. Selimović, who is really in his, and in media statements and as much as I have been informed on this Commission, confirmed that it was, not to mention the capture of these faces, because he says it was an optimal time to deblock and extract people. People get out of the environment, people get out of jail. Therefore, I am really pleased with the way this House, in such a democratic way, without raising its tones, without giving unnecessary political explanations and connotations, is having a debate on this serious problem. Therefore, in this direction it should continue, but I repeat again, with the right mark and what happened and the desire never to happen, with the re-affirmation of citizens' right to gather and express their position, because it is a right that neither MPs nor delegates nor anyone in this country nor in any country of the world can alienate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2899	Thank you, fellow Simić. A kolega of Tadić, chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2900	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. The international aspect of these events since 06th and around 06th was so substancefully spoken by Mr Čović that I really have nothing to add, so I will skip that part of the discussion and I can only express my agreement. Perhaps I could list other examples, including from Banja Luka from some times that would contribute to this international community status issue and question whether it should be 18 years after the end of the war conflicts. We have two questions ahead that, regardless of the subject, should give certain conclusions. The first issue is about BiH's ability to exercise certain powers, and the second issue is about who manages the police structures that we call a common 29 BiH authorities in the security sector. Protesters, Protestants, however you will, who were in front of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building, during the House of Representatives' session, were not people who sought any parent number after that. They had a very clear requirement, and the request said they wanted a home number that does not respect BiH's internal territorial structure. As a result, it is becoming more and more difficult to hear a voice from all over BiH. If they had said we want a home number and you solve it in accordance with the Constitution, which is valid in this country, I might have joined those down to people because their requirement to have a home number is fully justified. But the tendency to want a home number, as some of the protesters said, which has nothing to do with entities, cantons, with what life is, the constitutional position, the political system of BiH, is not a voice from BiH. It is the voice of a number of people who may be justified for them, it may be part of their political stance, but it has nothing to do with BiH's constitutional structure and therefore does not make any commitment to any of us parliamentarians sitting here. So this story that's trying to impose itself in this process of good guys and bad guys, in this circle of events, has this falinky that everything makes sense just isn't her first step. So all of this, the demonstrations, human rights, citizens, dissatisfaction, the right to gather, the environment of Parliament, etc., all of this has, all of this logically, is just not logical this first step. And that's why everything else is falling into the water. And don't talk about it, it's clear to everyone in this room. But that's how we got to each other's questions. If the RS has successfully resolved this by the Government Regulation, if the Brcko District has settled it, if we now have a temporary solution to the Council of Ministers, which respects what the RS and Brcko District have done, and conveys the same solution to the Federation of BiH and citizens who, in the meantime, have acquired offspring, are taking home numbers according to that principle, why don't we say here today that this is the solution. Niko one refused to take a home number in the Federation of BiH after a provisional decision by the Council of Ministers that respects the internal structure, so RS, Brcko District, the Federation of BiH, is known. Let's get out of here, from this discussion, a message that will help members of the Council of Ministers to realize that a temporary solution has resulted, that it has been accepted by the public and the Federation of BiH, so let the Council of Ministers then propose what was a temporary solution as a permanent solution, respecting BiH's internal structure. If the Council of Ministers is unable to do so, then we have a problem with what appears to be asking some authorities in BiH to do more work than they can carry. And then it's no longer a question of this Council of Ministers, or this Parliament, then the question is, does anyone have enough sense to say which jurisdiction should they actually be? Personally, if you ask me, and I'm not saying I'm right, I think the municipalities should issue those birth numbers. What does that have to do with BiH, and entities, and cantons, and districts, and I don't know what else? Well, the churches and mosques have written that up to 100 years ago here, and that record is still the most valuable day of the day. And no one minded it being run in some parish or in some jam. You come and enroll the child, you go home, you're happy. They used to sign up for a year, two days after the baby was born, which for reasons of military service, which from these, those. Anyway, it worked. Well, some of you, who are sitting here and who are older, might be listed in that way, and none of you, everything works. But no. It has to be BiH, it's a vital question, if it doesn't work nothing, there's no BiH, etc. And then, of course, we have a conflict. Of course we have a problem then. Why? Well, it certainly doesn't work for a unique home number, but because someone in this country, for who knows which time, wants to challenge its internal arrangement. And the one who does that is the bad guy, the poor guy, not the ones who protect BiH's internal arrangements, which is what the delegates and MPs from the order of the Serbian people and the RS were doing at the moment, with their view not to accept blackmail, not to accept anti-Dejton 30 pressures, and not to participate in what was intended to be done, which is a scenario by which decisions are made under threat, not by people and protesters, but by those groups of people who were within the protesters and whom Himzo Selimović identified as a danger to safety and mothers, and babies, and parliamentarians, and officials, and foreigners. Now we're coming up with another question, and that's a matter of police functioning. Why doesn't Himzo Selimović say who he was afraid of? Who did he see in that crowd who could put Parliament at risk that day? I'm sure neither Dušanka Majkić nor Aleksandra Pandurević, nor Martin Raguž, who was in the building at the time, feared any mother or parents there or any baby. I'm sure no one in this building, I've heard there was a wild stranger, but no one in this building from the people who were here, so foreigners, MPs, officials, etc., was any physical danger to any parent or child. Himzo Selimović is a professional, we may not like what he does, as it seems, etc., but he is a professional. And he recognized someone in that crowd of people downstairs who was a danger to the security of these two political process participants – Protestants, parliamentarians and others. Who's that? That's why we expect the Joint Defence and Security Commission to determine who the danger was. When we determine who was the danger followed by all the other epilogues, both political and judicial. And it can't get out of control. It may take 1,000 years, but that question will be settled. How does the House of Peoples work in all this? You are witnessing that there has been pressure to hold a session of the House of Peoples. Personally, I didn't think it would be a solution at the moment when all this was happening. I don't want to say now that I was right, but it is evident that we today have a much colder head and more reasonable way to discuss these issues, and that there have been some political circumstances that would certainly have prevented our work from being forced to establish a system that obviously didn't work at that time. And finally to address you as a Serbian delegate, not to mention a Srbin. '92. For years, you know what was in that same square. And you know that a lot of things needed to happen to get us back into this building. I do not fully understand those who say they love BiH, who do not treat delegates and MPs from the RS as little water in the palm of the hand, because that is the only way we can make decisions in this building. Whoever is ready to suffer is ready to work in BiH's interest, who is not, has proved to be the biggest enemy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2901	Thank you, colleague Tadić. He's a colleague of Ivanic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2902	Thank you very much. I'll try to be brief, because a lot has been said, so I have no intention of repeating much. There are two truths here that have been in conflict for the last month. One truth is that citizens have the right to protest, and another truth is that Parliament should work normally, and it is not normal anywhere in the world for parliamentarians to close down and not be able to get out. And all the debate turned into a fight for only one side, just one side and only one side. Either I am for those who 31 had the right to protest or I am for those who said they had the right to work and that no one should block Parliament. I assure you that these hundreds of women, mothers, families and people of intellectuals, who essentially wanted to solve the problem of the number, were not dangerous. And they weren't just people down there who were fighting for the home number, but they were people with political attitudes, and there were probably a lot of frustrated people without a job, without pay, crushed, humiliated, destroyed, without perspective, but there were certainly people who wanted to abuse it all together. I was once high-ranking when they happened, I can't say similar, but let's association... when he was the cornerstone of Ferhadia. I took responsibility then, for what was happening, for myself even though I had nothing to do with it. I haven't heard anyone from Sarajevo say – people sorry, it happened, it won't anymore, but nobody, especially for people who, I'm sorry, come to Sarajevo, will no longer be able to get out, will no longer happen that, look, I've been in communication with those people who were here, until seven hours there's not even been any calls. At seven o'clock, people got scared. Regular people, not politicians, ordinary people, who have no one on their side, not even the chief of staff, but are alone. Now these people are already starting to freak out about 7-8 hours in the evening. No Niko alive to tell them anything. Well, it's not normal, it's just not normal, and we don't have to accept it, like we don't need those, I repeat, people who started the protests. I especially repeat, these women, mothers, children, and a group of people from this one NGO sector that I know, if you will and personally, who have nothing to do with politics or political abuse, but really wanted it from this group of people who obviously had everything to do with it. I agree completely with Mr. Tadić, some of these people have obviously estimated to try... the problem. Well, don't, we're saying, fortunately it ended well. In this information, you have a dozen people who have been beaten up. In this information, given the circumstances, you have this cop who had a heart attack to break. Well, don't be underestimating all those people together as much as, well, fortunately, not once has anything happened to the MP. Fortunately, it didn't happen to the MP, but it did to some people. Some guy who broke the window and jumped out, as it says, must have been for some kind of psychosis and some kind of internal reason, who knows what happened to him, jumped out, broke a window to try to get where he was supposed to go, maybe his kid broke his leg, who knows. And don't let those people forget completely. And third, I think we have to ask what's going on with those people who beat those people. tužilac say it's not a crime of this information. Maybe it's not the weight of bodily injuries, maybe it's a violation. But at least now we'll keep it quiet to create some general environment. And I repeat, I guarantee you with my own head that these people were not beaten by those who wanted to pass the Single Parent Number Act, that the issue of numbers should be resolved, they were beaten by others. I'm sure none of that child's mother did it, because it's absolutely not. And someone has to finally tell me what happened. I have a feeling that no one here actually had the courage to take full responsibility and make a decision that might not be a sweet environment in which we live. Believe me, I know what it's like to make decisions like that because I used to make them as Prime Minister. So someone didn't, obviously there was some kind of fear that they'd look at me later and understand if I was doing my job. And thirdly, I am convinced, not that Bog has given us a serious criminal who will take a few people and make a fuss, I am convinced that he is still, not because I think the cops are incompetent, but because I think that in a good part of the governance structure there are people who don't 32 who know how to make decisions, who are taught that in this system everything works, that citizens are going to go by themselves, that it will all go by itself, they'll just sit and drink coffee, talk and not run. Much of it, I assure you, in everything that's happened, is the inability of the key people who need to make decisions and the courage to make decisions, and then to end it, take responsibility for them and bring them to an end. This calmed down now, to be honest and encouraged by the way we talked today and with different views, everyone came to their senses a little bit. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm not even sure it's going to be a big benefit from a joint session, it's going to be a big political debate. I don't believe this ambience and this atmosphere that we had today will be repeated. I'm not sure, but here's the thing, if you think it's a solution, and it's gonna be done, I don't mind. But once truly we should, I think, in particular, that the role of the Independent Committee is a little evaluative and truly true expertise for people who make decisions and to relieve them of political pressure together. I may like a decision or not like it sometimes, but if it's justified, I have no right to punish the man who made it that way. I'm afraid that ambience is still here for us. Well someone has to say, someone has to have the courage to say – it's unacceptable that people can't get in and out of the building. Everything else was fine, but it was totally inadmissible, and justifying that some people were, and I repeat, it's here and it's written, and it's beaten. As far as I'm concerned, this information is enough for me, I've seen from it, it's not maybe until the end of the detail, I've seen from it what's actually happened. You know, when a man writes there from 4 to 6 I couldn't get in touch with anyone at the MUP, and then he says my meter is around the building, and everything else is M.P. Canton, and I couldn't reach anyone. He did this right, too, to be honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2903	Thank you, Mr. Ivanić. Mr. Halid Genjac's esteemed colleague has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2904	I thank the chairman. So, I had no intention of getting involved in the debate because a lot of it was said. However, some of the more difficult in the last speeches still require speaking. Namely, Mr Tadić has established a first-step diagnosis and what is a falinka in the first place, a request by protesters for a solution to the birth number beyond the constitutional structure. And that's the first point and nobody talks about it and that's the first problem, but now that we're not talking about not opening it, that's also the word. Well, when it's already opened, you should talk, I don't think it's left unsaid. Let's briefly remind ourselves. The decision of the Constitutional Court, which deals with the issue of the Code of Origin, has been problematicd by the name of several municipalities in the RS, and has requested that these names of municipalities, as their name is valid, be entered into the Code of Origin. Since this has not been done, she has deleted those members where the municipalities are mentioned. And because we haven't changed the names of the municipalities we didn't have a single home number and we didn't have the Code of Origin. For that reason, only for that reason, not because of the registration areas, but because of the name of the municipalities. The implementation of the Constitutional Court decision meant changing the names of the municipalities. 33 For representatives from the RS, for whom Mr Košarac said they were politically active in resolving this issue, which I do not dispute, the implementation of this law, i.e. the implementation of that Constitutional Court decision, was conditioned by changing the registration areas. So the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision is conditioned by something that is not the content of the Constitutional Court's decision. Is that quite appropriate, if it should be so, I don't think it should be. And I think the Constitutional Court's decision should have been implemented in content as required by the Constitutional Court's decision. And if we had done that, we wouldn't have had a problem with the lack of the Code of Origin and we wouldn't have... So the condition of a solution to a question that has nothing to do with the Constitutional Court's decision and content is something that's caused the problem. I am not saying that this issue should also not be opened, but in a calm democratic atmosphere, debate, argument, etc., and the issue of registration areas etc., but it is not a question of who it depended on and what the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision could be conditioned on. So, we know that too, and those previous steps that are missing. I must say immediately, that we do not repeat ourselves, the right to express the citizens of our will dissatisfaction, satisfaction, etc., that is the fundamental right that is in our legislation, which is in our system and no one can dispute it. And right away, it must be condemned, it must be condemned to prevent or restrict any right and any freedom in the way of manifesting its rights. And this should not have been done to limit the work of institutions and to limit the work of movement, that is, the work and movement of MPs, and everyone should be condemned. However, I say, the Constitutional Court's decision was such and the Constitutional Court's decision was to be implemented. That's one question. The second question, this sentimental one, I don't know what to call it either, an assessment of how to treat Serbian MPs as a bit of palm water, should probably be installed in the code of conduct so they can be some... because I don't know how to treat it. But believe me, for all of us, the relationship should be according to how we advocate, how we do our jobs, and the assessment of who is the enemy of BiH and who is a friend of BiH, I base it on how who treats BiH. So, if someone treats BiH as a bit of palm water, I think he's a friend, and if he's referring to BiH, I don't say that, then I don't think he's a friend of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2905	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I can't take my word for it, there's no one to give me a word. We could continue this discussion, but I'm sure Mr. Krstan Simić will do well. Mr Simić has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2906	Well, thank you, Chairman. I had to replicate Mr. Genjac in a certain way. It's not a question and a problem... a problem for us to strictly implement the Constitutional Court's decision. It is true that the question asked by delegates from, or MPs from the RS was only a question of double names. That decision stopped working. This issue opened up a social one, I would say a legislative space to regulate the issue of these electoral, or registration units. If we're going to say now that we've implemented the Constitutional Court's decision, we've just changed the names so that there won't be any problems, that's the case, but do we have something we need to solve and what needs to be solved? Here comes the problem of another type 34 which is about exclusion, which is about the absence of arguments and simply this non-execution of the Constitutional Court's decision has led us to the fact that these provisions have been put out of force, they have opened a new question that we will need to approach in a constructive way, not just from the position that we need to change the names. You have Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci, very simple, strictly, implementation of the decision. Why isn't it happening? The decisions they make, either by the European Court of Justice, or by the Constitutional Court and by opening certain other implications that should be the subject of which we MPs or delegates must be prepared to face and seek solutions that will be appropriate for BiH's space. Since Mr Ivanić said, he also bothers that in this direction people from, let's conditional though I do not belong to those who are itching, there is no apology left. I belong to the order of those who very, very often, and now I will make it public here, what Mr. Tihić said, and here he is not, he is not presently, that the SDA and MPs of the Bosniak people's '98 order. the years have contributed greatly to the establishment of a constitutional justice system in the RS. It is true that they came from Tešnje, before them were children's cars, it is true that they were also accompanied by the police, that they had not left Parliament for a time. But very quickly, within that Parliament, we established a relationship that we went together for coffee in a month or two. Eh, this is exactly the message we had in Parliament of the RS and where there is a very, very significant contribution, I am about to say, Bošnjak, there should be one picture of how we should work here as well. The establishment of trust that we are not always in the political sense of two rams to the cabin, that we are looking for solutions, that we are looking for suggestions. I don't see that this law at all, about a single birth number, was supposed to cause some of this kind of controversy. But if I read one text in one of the media where the question is why Sredoje Nović insists on it, so you hear the following comment -- insists that it could be manipulated in the elections with import votes coming from Serbia, the diaspora, etc. Then I ask the question why now Staša Košarac couldn't ask the same question, which is why she cares to stay the other way. There should be a completely different approach here, that those solutions based on the law, which are founded in society, should not be a reason for us to think about why someone wants it differently. I am literally reading – this is the only reason why voters can be imported, so that unique birth numbers can be given before the elections, so that they can be manipulated by engineering. I think the key word here is trust. A key word is a realistic approach, a solution to social relations, rather than constantly asking questions about who loves or does not love BiH. BiH is a reality, BiH needs to be built, BiH is being built. But the issue here is very controversial in the perception of what BiH represents. For example. For the people of the RS, it is one orderly, functional, federal community, which it is today. For most in the Federation, it represents one centralised state. And I think that we should have opened one long ago... debate at all levels, from politics, from professions, from now on, to see what kind of BiH we want and what kind of BiH we can achieve. That's the key question we're running away from right now, and by running away from it, we're getting into the kind of problems we're having today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2907	Thank you, Mr Simić. For two overruns of time that took place during this session, I am, as someone who takes care of the course of the session, obliged of course to apologize to everyone who has taken advantage of their time within the time limit given to the Rules of Procedure, and I hope that none of you will take this as some kind of excessive violation of the Rules of Procedure, because we are still in the discussion of one of the 35 questions that you can't quite break the course of thought when the monitor says so. So here's to saying that it's an extraordinary circumstance only related to this point of the agenda. The word came out, i.e., excuse me, for correcting the false allegations of the distinguished colleague, delegate Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2908	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank you for the explanation I think it's useful, I didn't mean to answer, but the debate was good and certainly it was useful, but I finally called to say that we didn't lose sight of why we were discussing today. The agenda point is – Considering information on the safety of work in institutions. Am I right? Not anyone's emotional relationship. And as for the emotional bottom, I don't see anyone exclusively having it. Srbin, I respect your emotional, also Hrvat, Bošnjak and other citizens, all of us, would not share us on this basis when it comes to BiH institutions, if such a conclusion did not go away, at least I understood it, so I answered. So, what's this all about? It's here that we have information that's on the agenda and it's touching, in some way, the debate Mr. Bradarić had led, that it's now gone, so it's not like that, and it's not like that, but it says here that the protests were not announced, that the Directorate has no police capacity, they're explicit assessments. That the Directorate didn't have the capacity to do it on its own at any time, so people are serious about it. What do we do after this debate? If we say it's all right, let's go on, let's go on, let's go on, let's go on, let's go through it, maybe it'll happen again, maybe it won't, someone will evaluate if it happens again... I will, and if the protests are repeated with the right of citizens to protest, to make institutions work, to make it a conclusion, day, night, they have a legitimate right and we must respect them, but the institutions must, too. It's the only conclusion that from here can... And the other thing, he would remind us, in that sense we need an objectively need a session, whether the House of Peoples with a competent body, whether or not both at home, but we do, if we see how far we've come. In addition, I would remind us all together, and you too, Mr Tadić, with all due respect for your debate, that the Constitution of BiH in Article 1 in point 5 says that the capital of BiH is Sarajevo and that it is part of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which results not only in the rights and obligations of an entity towards itself but also in the community under which the Dayton Peace Agreement is signed. It is very important that we have in mind and that we all fight together to have these institutions and the capital of Sarajevo be at our disposal, and BH, and all its entities, and citizens and peoples. So, to support that conclusion, let's sit down and discuss this seriously with the competent institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2909	Thank you. So, I've been denied to take the floor again to clarify a certain position, but here, you'll allow Mr. Raguž here from a place to just give information. So, there is a certain time in that period until the return of the Rules of Procedure to the House of Representatives, the request of Mr Bećirović, the chairman of the House of Representatives, that he come to Banja Luka to discuss this. I made it very clear to him, so you don't have to come to Banja Luka, especially what would be understood as 36 if it were coming on your feet and I'm not a man of these manners, maybe someone would like it, I wouldn't. I know, as I told him, where we're supposed to meet officially when we meet, and since you have the Minister of the Federal Ministry of Interior, you just make sure we can get in and out of that building the way that it's a matter of our will, so there's no question at all about the main work or anything else. The information works, and the Constitution of the RS says that Sarajevo is the capital, and we explain to boys and girls in primary school on this example the difference between fictional and fictitious, so I wouldn't take the word any further. Thank you very much. I now have an obligation to ask the promoters, and there were more of them, related to this proposal to hold a joint session of both homes, whether we should put it to a vote or take it as a position that came out of the discussion. It makes more sense for me to put it to the vote. Okay. So, given that this was a proposal that came from delegates, Mr Raguž and delegates, Mr Košarac and delegates, Mr Čović, and supported in the discussion of a number of delegates, I urge you to make clear on the proposal for a conclusion that asked the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Peoples to call on the Joint College of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to convene a special joint session on which this issue would be on the agenda, which was on the agenda of today's House of People's - Point 3, after I apologize, after reports from the Joint Defence and Security Commission on the conclusions of the House of Representatives' House. Let's get this procedure started. I find that out of the 12 delegates present, 9 delegates were in favour, 3 delegates were abstained. From the Federation – 4 for, 3 abstentions, from RS 5 for, no one against, no one abstained. Since the system shows that there is a general and entity majority I find that this conclusion has been adopted. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's agenda number 4, Ad. 4. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples You have received a request from the BiH Council of Ministers to discuss the Amendments and Supplements Act on conflict of interest in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. At its 48th session, held on 23.05.2013, the House of Representatives accepted this request to discuss the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure and subsequently adopted the Law. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word, first of all, if the promoter, so now we're discussing the urgency of the procedure, does the promoter want a word? _________(?) 37 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2912	I thank the chairman. By submitting in the procedure of the Proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest, the Council of Ministers requested, or accompanied by a request for the Law to be considered by an urgent procedure. According to our Rules of Procedure, Article 122, point 1 says – when carrying a proposal for a high degree of urgency or which is formulated in such a simple way that it can only be adopted or rejected as a whole, the Proposer may request a review in writing in one reading. So, two conditions – high degree of urgency and simplicity of the law. Let's see if there's a reason for the urgency. So, this 2002 Law, with a solution, has been in this form that requires urgency for ten years. The urgency of this Law has an aspect of the election, and everything that is adopted up to five months before the election is not too late, so for me to consider and adopt this Law we have very much time and we have had quite a time. So, the reason for the urgency of the waste, especially the high degree of urgency. However, a far more important reason that is also being waste, which is cited as a key reason, it is important to point out that the proposed legal solution abolishes the ban on running for elections, which is to be harmonised with the opinion of the Venice Commission and that this is one of the reasons for urgency. If it were a law whose content is the abolition of this sanction, it would indeed contain elements of simplicity and would indeed reflect a kind of recommendation from the Venice Commission and should indeed be adopted by an urgent procedure and should indeed be adopted immediately. However, this Law, which is explained by the Council of Ministers, states that it is changing this member and nothing else is a law that changes essential content and the Institute of Conflict of Interest. Why? The law establishes a Commission to decide on a conflict of interest which, instead of practice so far, the Central Election Commission establishes a conflict of interest is replaced by a new commission. The law completely changes sanctions, all sanctions, not just a ban on running, but all sanctions, and all fines, and all shifts, and all... shifts. No more shifts in law enforcement and conflict finding, no more running bans, which should not be done, but everything, absolutely all sanctions have been changed. All sanctions have been changed, the work and decision-making of a conflict of interest has been completely changed, a new body is being introduced to work and decide on a conflict of interest, etc., etc. At least, on the issue of the Commission's work to decide on a conflict of interest, it takes at least two months of productive work and discussion of experts, the legal community, the academic community, etc., which composition of the Commission, how to decide how to avoid political influences and blackmails, how to be an independent expert body, etc., etc. All this can be settled in the Law after long-term quality professional and above all... professional discussions and discussions of those who participate and who implement such laws... Instead, and contrary to all that, the Council of Ministers has proposed a law that proposes all this without any consultation, without any discussion and further asking us to adopt it – take it or leave it, accept it or... 38 Let me tell you, the Commission's decision to decide on a conflict of interest is composed of 2/3 MPs and delegates and 1/3 directors and deputy directors of the Anti-Corruption Agency. So, six MPs and delegates, politically elected representatives and three politically appointed, so we consider them independent. The decision requires, no matter what the facts, which are elements, for a decision, two members of each constitutive people to agree on each decision of the Commission. So, this composition of the Commission, this composition of the Commission. So, right now, a number of problems have been in the application of this law so far. I don't know, do I still have time?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2913	You've got time, but we're a bit of a quorum now that Mr. Vrdoljak's out, but you just keep going, he'll be back.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2914	Therefore, the adoption of the Law takes an attempt to improve the law or maybe some to reverse it. Since the adoption of the Law, there are problems in application. The Central Election Commission has indeed had problems in applying this Act, and in practice it is constantly improving, standards are being improved. I must say, it is a practice in many countries that an independent commission determines a conflict of interest. And this solution should be sought, however, at a solution that will really improve standards, improve the application and protection of conflicts of interest institutes rather than the contrary. This composition of the Commission, I argue, blocks the decision-making and destroys the BiH conflict of interest institution. And the institution of conflict of interest in BiH is one key element or instrument for fighting corruption which is the cancer of our society's wounds and... So, this law with this solution, with solutions like this, is a violation of the mandates reached. I dare say, time will tell. The adoption of such a law would largely lead to the destruction of an institution of conflict of interest. For these reasons, therefore, which I think are obvious, which are, therefore, this simplicity which is stated as a condition for considering the Law by emergency procedure, and if this Law is considered simple believe it is an insult of common sense, I think it is an insult of common sense to such a solution and these solutions are considered simple and that they are so simple that they can be considered immediately. That is why I call upon my colleagues not to accept an emergency procedure, but to consider, during the amendment phase, after the necessary consultations, the Commission's law as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure and to find indeed... this institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2915	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Mladen Ivanić. Here's a colleague of Ivanic's.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2916	Well, I think there's really no reason for an emergency procedure in this particular example. In this House we have had very rarely such practice. And otherwise another time, a long time ago, and when, when some other people were in front of the party that I represent,... they always insisted that emergency procedures be used really extremely rarely. I don't see any reason right now for an emergency procedure, really 39 no reason. I mean, the law actually carries two things, one positive other negative. Positive, which, when interests are common, there is a possibility of an agreement, here I see that this has been finely agreed and that there is obviously most of it, in this particular thing, that there are elements of the positive. Negatively, I think the general criteria, when it comes to conflict of interest, are brought down and the most objectively in conflict of interest is power. Who is in power most often does not necessarily mean only, but is most often in conflict of interest. I don't think there's any reason for this emergency procedure, the law that was before was supposed to be fixed, more to avoid some ambiguity, but I'm not sure I should have changed it this much. But that's, I'd like to talk about it in a regular procedure with the possibility of something changing, fixing and defining, and that's why I don't think it's good to vote for this emergency procedure without the right to say anything, or anything we're changing.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2917	Thank you, Mr. Ivanić. The word has an esteemed colleague, Mr. Mehmed Bradarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2918	... considering and passing laws by emergency procedure for at least three reasons, and I am obliged to explain them. One is that in March of this year we received the Operational Work Plan, which says that by the end of the year we need to realise some 70 points, namely 72 or 72 of the bill. I think to this day, and since two dry months are coming, one hand can list the laws and proposals of the law that we have adopted. And not only this Law, but all other laws if we want to and partly at least implement this Operational Work Plan should be adopted by emergency procedure. The second reason is that two years ago a consensus was reached, and this unanimous agreement that, or recommendations were made to make changes to this Law. And in this sense, an interresor working group was formed, so it was composed, and before that there was another attempt, another interresor working group and there was some final, final law solution. It was not brought in because of these events, etc., but in the work of this interresor working group the NGOs participated, the academic community participated, it went through Jahorina and here and here, etc., and I think there was a lot of talk. And I don't believe that if we sat again tomorrow to make something, something different from that... etc. And the third reason is that the House of Representatives adopted this Law in the same way two months ago, so by emergency procedure, I don't know what we've been waiting for for two months, which we haven't considered. I understand this period, but until this time period, so until the blockade, there was time for this law to be considered, passed. I even suggested it in this context, and I didn't mention it today, the initiative, since it will be held on Wednesday at the College, a permanent session. I don't know if it's under the Rules of Procedure or not, etc., but I think it's absolutely necessary, etc. So we don't rush because we're late, but because we didn't leave in time and we don't have time to pass at least part of these laws anymore. But of course not at all costs, I don't think it should go over my knee, especially because we have some version of this law and it wouldn't be publically unknown. That's it. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2919	Thank you, Mr. Bradarić. The word has a distinguished colleague, delegate Borjana Krišto. Here you go, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2920	Thank you very much. Here, when it comes to the procedure of this Law, I will really look back only on procedure, but immediately expressing my dilemma in some way. I will say my position, here, in conversations with certain representatives who have also intervened that this Law does not go according to a hasty procedure, I will say my position that I have always personally advocated the ordinary procedure of the law for the reasons why, indeed, in the ordinary procedure, it is such and envisaged in many, or in almost all cases other than those which, by the Rules of Procedure, are intended for urgent situations, because then we pass a law that will have less legal ambiguity, less dilemma, less technical repairs, etc. But of course, I am not ignorant, nor are we all, that we also pass certain laws by hasty procedure, and also this Law, which is proposed this time, relating to conflict of interest. I am sorry that there are no other laws under this law and, let's say, one of them is the Electoral Law which should be found primarily, let me say by hasty procedure and even before this law, and primarily because of the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court decision concerning the City of Mostar. Well, in that sense, I would also like to say that in every sense, I would support this when it is in a special way, and here is my colleague Ivanić, if we have been able to agree on something like this, then I need to, and we all need to look at it on the positive side. I talked to the club myself this morning, and we were all in the same position that we didn't mind supporting the regular procedure. However, at this point in time, I see more here at this point, not only has the matter been debated about the hasty procedure, but my colleague Genjac has actually made his views on the content of the Law through the debate on the hasty procedure. I would not bring them out here, but I will say, indeed, that as far as this Law is concerned, and when it comes to such changes, whether they are small or larger, indeed this Law may now have to contain provisions that need to be changed, but we must, I must say, also respect one fact, which you have all touched in some way, that the existing Law that regulates conflict of interest does not act preventively, nor is it repressive and acts in an unfair way. You know that in no way could it be treated properly, legally justified, conflict of interest when it comes to executive power or legislation. If the Central Election Commission had been able to act and decide, and decided when it came to the conflict of interest of elected officials, MPs, etc., the envoys to whom the mandate was granted, but if it were to happen that there was a conflict of interest of some in the executive government then we know, and we do not need to close our eyes to such facts, that it could not act and that this, I am saying everything for reasons, perhaps and such a decision of the Central Election Commission, we consider it as a decision of an independent body, a professional body, who is really trying to do its job. But in spite of everything we know, here we also have on the agenda and their reports, etc., that we also have some kind of opinion that rightly allows us to say, suspect, politicize and make political views and political decisions in some way. I am saying this because the same committee, which is now proposed here by this law to decide on a conflict of interest, is in some way doubting only for a simple reason because it is an agent, i.e. delegates or envoys, and thus doubting that some kind of majority that would be together with an agency which is tasked to prevent both corruption, right, and crime. 41 I personally think that repairs are good, and at this point I would really like to have the passing of the law, if we all agree, of course. We once opened through an inter-resor group, we can go with some conclusion today, but don't at this point question what we need and what is, of course, much better, or a step in relation to the existing legal solution. So I'm going to take a legal, or procedural decision after the break, so on behalf of the Club, I'm looking for a five-minute break right now to consult, but more because of the situation, even though we've taken a stand, because we're not in any way questioning the law. Because if we're clear that today is not just a matter of procedure, then here we are going to decide, in a way, to support that this law is not in some kind of fate that falls upon us. Or if it's supposed to fall then let's know right away about the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2921	Mrs. Krišto, I address you as the chiefs of the Croatian People's Club of Delegates. So, you can of course use your right to rest immediately and I am required by the Rules of Procedure to make it possible. For reasons of practical nature, I am now asking you, so – is there any chance that we can announce the break after we hear the arguments and the distinguished delegate Nermine Kapetanović or do you want to take a break right now?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2922	It's exactly what I wanted, because that's what the law decides to end it all and then.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2923	Yeah, so a break after the argument. Thank you. The word has a distinguished delegate, Mrs Nermina Kapetanović. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2926	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I fully support the discussion of the esteemed colleague, Mr Halid Genjac, who really had to elaborate the reasons why, here I am and he won't be able to support today's debate on 42 of this Law. For a simple reason, because as he also said, I believe there is not a single business reason which would justify the amendment and addition of the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions under emergency procedure. The trend that has taken place over the past few months seems to me even a year in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in the ruling six, that the laws are being considered in principle take or leave it worrying. And if we are not as parliamentarians aware that breaking the law over the knee and reading in one day and the same day of the first and second reading, then at least we should listen to the voice of the academic community and representatives of the international community. The list was addressed by all of us, by the Office of the High Representative, through the OHR, through all the NGOs, through the American Embassy, and we're just going over it, I'm going to think that what the international community has to say to us in the first place. So I repeat what is the measure of things and the story of the debate, of the way, so the debate about this, is the fact that the content of the changes is not at all such a character that it should be discussed by emergency procedure. Of course, it is alarming that, as my colleague Genjac said, the opinion of the academic public, civil society, experts was absolutely left out in this, therefore, to the first stage of the debate, i.e. the first and second reading of how it happened in the House of Representatives. I think that the civil public and civil society must not be allowed at all for such an important law, which has had a tendency to be an anti-corruption law, and has turned itself into its own opposite, I think that the segment must have included representatives of civil society, especially for a number of reasons. One is, for me, worryingly, the disenfranchisement of the Central Election Commission which I particularly do not support. I agree that the position of the Venice Commission, which is mentioned here, is of course taking away the mandate to represent a change, but I think it is very clumsy, and I find it also the intentional claim of the proponents in the very introduction that is called for gullible readers and those who do not read the carefully text, that this is all being consulted by the Venice Commission. It's not true, it's not true, it's only consulted for the deprivement segment, it was her recommendation, a very old recommendation. At the very least, this text of the Law, at all text, has been in the process for 11 years, has suffered four different changes and from year to year only narrows down the circle of functions and persons to which the law applies, as well as the situation leading to conflict of interest. And of course that the representatives of the international community, including representatives of civil society, and here we are, a few of us here, are concerned about the fact that according to the draft amendments to the Law, that is, according to the fact that it will now appear to be a proposal, it is proposed to establish a commission that is mainly made up of parliamentarians, which is not the case in Croatia. In Croatia there are more representatives of the academic community than parliamentarians, so there is no need to call on Croatia, and these parliamentarians will decide whether their colleagues are potentially in conflict with conflicts of interest. Of course it raises questions and doubts about the independence of the commission. In the text of the proposal, there is an item that allows for the suspension of the conflict of interest investigation. If the elected official, so-called, eliminates the reasons for the conflict of interest, it seems to me exactly at the will of the parliamentarians and against achieving and raising the level of responsibility of elected officials. In doing so, everyone forgot, and those who voted in the House of Representatives, and those who will vote here today, so I have no doubt at all that the fundamental role of parliamentarians should be to protect the common good rather than to protect their own interests. I'm not sure we're gonna sanction each other, I'm not sure by now, and I think the conflict of interest will legalize it. I know that representatives, and two representatives of opposition political parties will be members of the commission, but most will again be current representatives of ruling political parties, which will create an exceptional space for manipulation of political space, so in many different ways. I'm afraid of opening up room for maneuvering with the non-starting of 43 procedures in the event of political concessions. I think it was meant to be here, to be a number of academics, members of the academic community, a number of parlametarians, and just as the Republic of Croatia did. Therefore, the very fact that the members of the commission are directly financially subject to and subordinate to the commission is thus affecting the independence of the members of the commission. And there is a fact, therefore, and what Mr Genjac has said, which I fully agree with, that the proposal does not say at all any provision, nor does the precise qualification of the necessary professional qualifications of the persons who will do so, this working body, I do not know how to call it, nor does the work experience need to be related to conflict of interest in itself, in such a way neither the expertise nor the qualification needed to make decisions on conflict of interest. Therefore, the independence and independence of the bodies that will decide on this in the act and in the law which we are depriving the CEC of the sea must be created by independence and independence in order to ensure that this fight with conflict of interest is effective. This means that it can only be ensured through financial and political independence which, by this proposal, the bill absolutely did not at any time, is not said. And I want to say also that, you mentioned a little while ago you know the fact and fiction, I like your comparison, you're very tall, and I appreciate it very much, so you see that there's somehow been a conflict of interest so far, but this new proposal is going to be fictitious. There's no talking at all about someone being disowned, punished. And the most important amendment of the law relating to sanctions, namely the one relating to and the provision which leaves out the inadequacy of running for one of the functions and the possibility for the Commission to suspend the procedure if the official, executive or his adviser removes the causes of conflict of interest to me is alarming in the sense that, in the light of the proposal, it is stated that an amendment to the application provision is made to agree with the opinion of the Venice Commission. Of course, that is true, however, the possibility that this, this segment is absolutely common sense, is unacceptable, that the possibility for law-breeders who would have to be legally held accountable, regardless of whether they have subsequently ceased to break the provisions of the law, to negotiate with them responsibility, or to spare them the responsibility of removing conflict of interest. Therefore, it follows that officials, executives and advisers should be allowed to be in conflict of interest until the time at which the conflict of interest would not be revealed. After that, it means enough to stop breaking the law and continue to perform the functions to which they have been elected, because the procedure can be suspended if the Commission considers it so justified, or imagine, please, if the offender promises to stop breaking the laws. Therefore, there is no mention of the absolute request or obligation of the offenders to prove that he is no longer in conflict of interest, so that the suspension provision may be applied. And so, to finish the discussion, the reason why such a law that would not be considered with the possibility of investment in amendments would not be acceptable to me, I think it is not good to consider it by an urgent procedure, I think it is necessary to leave time to make a quality law that should really be an anti-corruption law, which I believe we are interested in to finally reduce the level of corruption in BiH and that is why my discussion today is like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2927	Thank you. 44 The word has an esteemed colleague, Krstan Simić. Here you go, Mr. Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2928	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, basically, I'm always against passing laws by emergency procedure. And now, in that direction, I've been hesitated by the opinions of the international community, and especially by Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović. Kapitovic, and now I'm thinking about whether I should think for myself or tomorrow someone will tell me that I'm thinking with the head of a high representative or these lists. And also, as the attitude of civil society is potent, I have to say that we should respect that attitude of civil society, but I have to say that we have just experienced an incredible situation here. We were just Mrs. Krišto, me and Mr. Rodić the victim of just transparency, when we proposed in the Law on the financing of political parties that 50 thousand marks can be given publicly, transparently, to know who to give. Then they all jumped on us to affirm the crime. Therefore, this civil society has often very, very stretching terms, Liberation has written pages and pages about it, so I don't know what to say today. But what's most indicative here is that there's always potential for the question, I repeat again, irresponsibility. Which is why there will always be perception, I mentioned earlier the adoption of that Law on a unique home number, that it is done for these reasons, that it is called MPs and delegates here that they would be thieves or that they would protect some who are in conflict of interest, which is why one doesn't start thinking and thinking that the people we choose in this commission or any commission, that they will do their job responsibly, in accordance with the law. And not right away, whoever gets elected, he's a thief. It is also true that what you say has no conditions of expertise, etc., and I assume that if this Law is adopted, homes will choose those people who have experience in that direction, who can give some suggestions in that direction, to do so. At the end of what's most spectral, I'm afraid if you'd come back to the amendment phase now, that, given that you've entered into a debate and the content of the law, was very, very difficult to return to the amendments. And finally, I don't think anyone shares an opinion with the full support of the Central Election Commission, that it's a good solution to be within the Central Election Commission, because it has a second mandate, a follow-up, a follow-up of this, we're just coming in two blocks, but now we're where we are. Now I'm supposed to be with Mr. Inck's proposal and that's giving me a big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2929	If I understand, Mr. Simić, you're in favour of adopting this law either urgently or urgently, mostly urgently.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2930	No, I'm just saying my point.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2931	Okay, thanks. 45 Mr. Genjac can do it now. You want to wait any longer or what? And there isn't, okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2932	Let us put aside the letters and letters and the international community and the international institutions, to really focus on the law, because we bring it to ourselves and we will apply it to ourselves. To tell you straight away, MPs, of course, don't come to my senses to qualify in advance in one way or another, MPs are MPs, MPs are honest people, and about who's a thief, who's not a thief at all, I don't want to talk about it, but the fact is that MPs are also representatives of political parties, that they're political faces. That's a fact. And also in all countries, it is a practice to have a sensitivity to this fact of political belonging and nowhere is a commission drawn up in a way that political figures are in most of these commissions. Why? They're probably a little bit more of a thief than we are, and we're immune than that. Eh, that's one thing. The other thing, Mr. Bradarić, I'm sorry he came out, said three reasons for the emergency. First, the bill. It is true that the plan is very weakly achieved, of 72 laws, very little. But there is no need for the norm to meet the difficult laws and bad solutions, the good laws of the norm should be fulfilled. The second reason is that agreement has been reached on the Interresor Group is indeed a long-term debate, participation and the Venice Commission, but never such solutions have been agreed as proposed in the law, but better-quality solutions. And the third thing, the third reason is that the House of Representatives has already adopted, so why don't you and the House of Peoples. I don't think it's appropriate. Because adopting the House of Representatives doesn't absolutely mean that we need the House of Peoples to adopt. On the contrary, I think that... as the last dam, the House of Peoples needs to think clearly. And in the end, any changes to this Law so far have resulted in an amendment following consultations with the Venice Commission. This time it wasn't done. I think it'd be good to do it, I think it'd be good to do it. And the third thing, Mrs. Krišto, I wasn't talking about the content of the law, except for the measure in which it is necessary to prove how complex the law is. So, one of the basic conditions for the same procedure is the simplicity of the law. In order to prove how difficult the law is, or how complex it is, I had to illustrate some of the solutions of the law, how complex these issues are. I hope you understand. I think you should be sober here, that you should think it through, it's a very important law. Individual and day-to-day political interests should not be subordinated to the adoption of laws that will have a tremendously difficult long-term consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2933	Thank you. 46 There are neither reported for discussion nor for other grounds. I propose that we still do not conclude the emergency debate, and at the request of the Croatian People's Club of Delegates, I am giving a break on whose end Mrs Krišto will inform us. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] I am reluctant to remind the head of the Bosniak people's club that we lack a delegate to continue the session. It's a Bradarić, isn't it? Okay. Mrs. Krišto, is there a need, I think you can tell us. Okay, that's what we'll see through the vote, as Mr. Špirić says. Okay. You want a word? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2936	I thank the chairman. I'll try to save as much time as possible with time and time in mind. So I was, in part, talking about the content of the law to the extent that it was necessary. I was already talking about the composition of the commission and the new concept of conflict of interest. I also stress that the Commission's decisions do not provide for the possibility of making an appeal, so there is no two-stage, but the possibility of a administrative procedure is open, which is also unacceptable. 47 For all reasons, therefore, I am informing you that most of the Bosniak Club declares the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on conflict of interest harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. I will only read very briefly – In accordance with Article 161(1) and (2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH are therefore declared to be harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. Reason: The Council of Ministers also adopted a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions, although the conditions of Article 122 have not been met. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples in terms of the degree of urgency and simplicity of the Law. The Council of Ministers requests that the above-mentioned Law be considered as an emergency procedure. Consideration of the Law by emergency procedure implies... that it is also proposed without the possibility of any change in its contents in the parliamentary procedure. The draft law provides for the establishment of a Commission to decide on a conflict of interest and to decide instead of the Election Commission on conflict of interest and sanctions. With the proposed decision-making method and the composition of the Commission, in which 2/3 are Members of MPs and delegates, it is not possible to achieve a non-necessary degree of independence and efficiency in its work. Through its composition, such a commission would be subject to political influences and blackmails, which would make it impossible to make the necessary decisions on expert-law issues in the area of preventing conflicts of interest. Furthermore, the proposal for a law eliminates the right to appeal against Commission decisions, which is contrary to the legal system. It is clear, therefore, that the adoption of the bill with those shortcomings would prevent conflict of interest in BiH's institutions and destroy the achieved standards in this area, which is essential for the fight against corruption in BiH. Therefore, the adoption of the proposed bill would be harmful to all BiH citizens, thus damaging to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. So, signed by Mr. Tihić, Mrs. Kapetanović and I. And we ask the chairman to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the announcement of this issue, by the majority of the Bosniak Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2937	I'd only ask Mr. Genjac to deliver that document to me. So what do we do? It's not signed. Nothing, I'll put the motion to the vote, but I have to consult, since Mr. Tihić is not here, that it is your initiative and Mrs. Kapetanović who is here and who I see supports it, but not Mr., so I don't see any signatures and he's not here.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2938	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2939	All right, you've got attention. 48 [[PAUZA]] Can we? All right, all right. I find that there are all three signatures, so now we move on to a plea, in accordance with Article 161. I note, now we will have to make a statement manually because this system, as far as I've got the information, does not give support to this kind of statement, so we do the voting through cardboard, by raising the charts corresponding. Mr. Simić, so we're going to raise the right chart, whether we're in favour, against or abstention, when I announce that the vote has begun. On that basis, I ask you to keep your hands in the air to count the votes and we will know what decision we have made. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2942	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2943	So we're voting in line in clubs, Mr. Simić, you understand? Can we move on to a plea? Okay. I call on the Club of Serbian Delegates to declare who considers the decision, therefore, as regards the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions, harmful to the vital national interest of the Bosniak people? I find that out of the four delegates present, all four vote against. I call now on delegates from the Croatian people, the Croatian People's Club to declare who believes that the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions is proposed by an urgent procedure harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people? Of the three delegates present, who make up the quorum, all three delegates voted against. I now urge delegates from the Bosniak people's order to declare who believes that the amendment and supplementation of the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions is harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people? I find that of the 3 delegates – 2 delegates voted in favour, and 1 delegate was against it. Given that the House's proposed decision requires the consent of most Serbian, most Bosniak and majority of Croatian delegates present and voting, and that there was no such thing as an apology... So now we move on to... [[Shortly disabled microphone]] 49 I ask Mr. Vukoja, secretary of the House of Nations, to give the interpretation of this member, given that two delegates from the Bosniak people were in favour, 1 against, and that, accordingly, explain to us the provision which reads – for such a proposed decision in the House of Nations, most of the Bosniak and majority of the Croatian delegates present and who vote, so what decision we have now made. [[Shortly disabled microphone]] Here you go, Mr. Marin.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2944	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2945	I'm sorry, I have to give you a chance. Did you? Yes, there it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2946	Dear envoys, the Honorable Chairman of the House. The procedure shall, therefore, determine the vital national interest of Article 161. Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples. Only interpretation is given by the College. But Article 161 says, the first paragraph says – let the proposed decision of the Parliamentary Assembly be declared harmful by the vital interest of the Croatian, Bosniak or Serb people by majority of the votes of Croatian, Bosniak or Serb envoys. So for such an, the second one says, and you have a Rules of Procedure here but here to read – such a proposed decision in the House requires the consent of most Croatian, most Bosniak and most Serb envoys who are present and who vote, you know. Here, the one here is not said, here we have a request from the majority, a written request from most members of the Bosniak People's Club, but here does not say the Rules of Procedure of most of those who have applied, signed, rather than the majority who are present and who vote. In this case, we did not have a majority of any club, individual callings by the chairman, that the decision is harmful to the vital national interest. That's the part I can do with the Rules of Procedure, for further...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2947	That's what we expected of you. All right, take your place. So, I find that no decision has been taken to consider any club harmful to the vital national interest of the Bosniak people of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions, in an urgent procedure, so we move on...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2948	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2949	I'm sorry, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a priority. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2950	A little Mr. Vukoja, when he thinks about it better, I think we'll come to a solution. Therefore, Article 161 of the declaration by decision of vital interest of attitude 1, three members, the majority of the club declared 50 by decision. It's a finished story. Point 2. – such a proposed decision in the House requires the consent of most Bosniak, majority of Croatian and most Serbian people present and voting. This attitude speaks of the fact that in each club there should be a majority for this decision so that it would be considered harmful and then approached by the vote by which most of the club must be in favour. This condition must be met in order to be dealt with immediately. If, therefore, Article 162 now, in the event of opposition from most Bosniaks, most Croatian or Serbian or, or, or, if any, if it opposes the majority that it is not destructive, the appointment of the commission is approached. We had both club and other club, they said they weren't mostly, that it wasn't destructive and accessing the appointment of a commission that was trying to find a solution. It's quite clear. If the Commission does not find a solution within five days, the case shall be referred to the Constitutional Court. So, this second position in Article 161 which, therefore, says it needs the consent of most Bosniaks, most Serbian and most Croatians who are present and voting, this one, that the proposed decision is harmful to the vital interest. We only had most Bosniaks present..., we had no other two and we had no cumulative condition to say immediately that it was harmful and that votes from each club must be three votes for that decision. So we didn't have that cumulative, only most of the Bošnjak present were in favour, that it was destructive. Most of the Serbians, most of the Croatians, were against that, and it was not estimated to be destructive and not automatically accessed after the vote that the majority must vote from each club for the decision, but rather from Article 162 of the appointment of the commission and the Constitutional Court. It's quite clear, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2951	It's possible it's clear, we just can't skip the steps. So the first statement that is being made here is a statement according to attitude 1.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2952	Done. It's finished. The signature's been delivered.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2953	This is where the votes stand.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2954	So we voted at the club and delivered the signature. Voted at the club and delivered the signature. It's a declaration. We sign the declaration and deliver it. It's always been voted at the club and delivered with the signatures. Always.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2955	Mr. Genjac, we can get into a situation that can be unpleasant, logs, determine if it's been held, whether or not, etc., I don't think it suits anyone. So, I understand what you're talking about, but I think that, that...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2956	51 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2957	So, you know what I mean. So the issue of the formal session is – it is not – when - the minutes were adopted - not adopted, etc., whether it was – it was not, on what basis it was decided, etc. So, at this point, we've had a statement by the clubs, according to attitude 1. And in that view, there must be voices. I understand that the situation is not pleasant at all, but you must understand the simple role here of all of us who want to make some kind of, as I would say, decisions are made without it being disputed from the point of view of any act, especially the Rules of Procedure. So, I'm ready again of course to give you my word, with some decision we'll eventually have to make most of it here, how we're going to interpret this situation. I wouldn't want us to get into a position that is, which is later hard to explain. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2958	So it's not a complicated thing at all, it's a very simple thing. So am I. The procedure needs to be fully respected. Decisions can be made where there is no business prescribed procedure. This House can change its Rules of Procedure, and that's not a problem, but this is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, believe me, Mr. Tadić. Article 161(1) is the first stage. We've been here a long time, we've invested vital interest multiple times. The club, most of it at the sub-basement club, and that's when attitude one is over. It shall be submitted in writing, signed in writing, as a guarantee that the majority has voted. There's no higher limit than three delegates from one club to sign. And attitude one is over. However, attitude 2 is also needed to accept that it is destructive in the vital interest must all clubs say – yes, it is destructive, let's vote then. If one club, at least one, does not say – it is not destructive, it is not destructive, the procedure must be opened. That's what this is about. It's very simple, no problem at all, I think. Because not respecting the Rules of Procedure can cause the whole headache, you know, and the Constitutional Court and...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2959	I appreciate that. We have a very unusual situation and I know that this is difficult to do under any form of procedure right now, and in terms of discussion and replica, we put it. I would ask Mr. Bradarić to tell us – was there a session of the Bošnjak delegates' Club where most Bosniak votes were decided to raise the issue of declaration harmful to the vital national interest of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on conflict of interest? You want in the microphone, I give you my word. Sign up for a discussion. Please, please, I've included you freely.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2960	No, there was no session of the Bosniak Club on that matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2961	I'm sorry, Mr. Genjac, we got that information. We're moving forward with the matter of breach of the Rules of Procedure, as they have the advantage. Mr. Krunoslav Vrdoljak came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Vrdoljak. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2962	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I don't agree with this initiative personally, because I think it's for daily-political purposes. However, from what Mr. Genjac has said, he is absolutely the Rules of Procedure on his part, and I do not think we should complicate, we should accept what he proposes to be done, or to appoint a commission that will try to resolve it, and if not, they will go to the Constitutional Court and it is otherwise impossible to resolve whether at this session today or next, however. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2963	Okay. Next, with the right priority, Mrs. Borjana Krišto reported. Here you go, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2964	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2965	I apologize, I've given you here, please technical service to... Do you want us to repeat everything, re-apply to Mrs. Krišto? ____________ [[no microphone turned on]] It's on. All right.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2967	Now, I was going to say that we are going to proceed in accordance with Article 162 and that we are forming a commission, and on behalf of, right now, the Croatian People's Club, here without consulting, I am prepared to say that I will be a member of this committee and I propose that immediately at the establishment of the commission, we have a business deadline to declare ourselves within five days, and that we make that clear today immediately. And unless we agree in accordance with Article 162 that this is not a vital interest then we should immediately refer it to the BiH Constitutional Court procedure today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2968	Okay. The word came from a respected colleague of Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2969	First of all, it's for the record. So, article 161 says – some proposed decision can be declared harmful by the vital interest of the Bosniak, Croatian and... most of the votes of Bosniak, Croatian or Serbian delegates, most of the votes... club. 53 Mr. Bradarić, we held a club this morning, right, we held a club, a club session?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2970	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2971	All right. So we held a session of the club where Mr. Tihić was not present because he was present at the College session. After the end of his session, the College of Consultation carried out and the declaration of vital interest signed. So it doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure that it has to be at a formal session, it doesn't say that it has to be at the House session, it's a statement by most clubs, most club members. And you've got signed by most club members a declaration... and all the business conditions have been met. Just for the record, let me point out.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2972	I have to apologize to you really, but let me get this straight. So the compromise that Mrs. Krišto offers you is a matter of goodwill. Mr. Genjac, it says clearly here - voices. How do you, what do you consider a voice I don't know, but the votes are in the vote. It doesn't say the will of the delegates, it doesn't write the signatures of the delegates, it doesn't say that the delegates are in favour, it's in votes. The act of voting is a formal act. Perhaps you, by running the club, have introduced the practice you are talking about, but how am I as someone who takes care of the regularity of work in this House to tell Mr. Bradarić that he is at his own expense in such a situation that he had no right to plead. I have to observe all the delegates and all the clubs equally, and it's not a matter of my will, it's a matter of the Rules of Procedure. So, what can we do? We can conclude that in this case we will interpret the Rules of Procedure in the way Mrs. Krišto suggested, but we will also vote on it. But to convince one another, there's no need. So voting is a formal procedure when people need to make a statement whether they are in favour, against or abstention for something. Mr. Bradarić argues that there was no club where it was happening and that he himself, here's to say, was denied the right to say whether or not it was for or against, and there's no signature. Well, it's okay, but now we're gonna, now just for this opportunity, according to the member, help me Mr. Vukoja...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2973	162
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2974	It's not 162. It's the conclusion that we're interpreting the Rules of Procedure. _________(?) You can't do that. So, given that I have no other members of the College in my presence here, I have no other way to resolve this issue, but to make a statement as 54 proposed by Mrs Krišto, which is in accordance with Article 160. Rules of Procedure in which it stands – The Kolegijum decides when it is necessary to interpret this Rules of Procedure until the House decides otherwise by the conclusion or amendments to the Rules of Procedure. So, I repeat, there are no conditions for the College to decide. Since I am currently in this room and at this session, and we will plead as Home on whether we will adopt Mrs Krišto's proposal in which, I ask you to follow me, Mrs Krišto, says: to accept the submission of three delegates from the Bosniak people in which the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on conflict of interest harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people as a parliamentary instrument that meets the conditions laid down in Article 1st Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People, and afterwards, by respecting the previous vote as a vote on the position of the 2nd member, we can move on to the work of Article 162. Who's in favor of this...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2976	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2977	Excuse me, Mr. Simić. You've reached out. Mr. Genjac, do you want another word or should we give Mr. Simić a head start?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2978	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2979	Do you want a word or should I let Mr Simić go?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2980	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2981	Mr. Simić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2982	I, Mr. Chairman, agree with you that this is a very serious question. Why is it a serious question? Because Dom must not allow himself to misread the decision of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2983	Especially about the vital national interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2984	Eh, yes, it's in the interest of all of us. I'm going back to the rule of law again, if you're reading article 161 and attitude 2 he's, you're right, you're absolutely clear, only we're a little bit all of us here messed up 55 pots We are, we can be declared harmful,... with an initiative to assess whether there is, who can run. Look, some... decision by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly can be found harmful, so it can be declared harmful, and this is about the initiative to declare the decision harmful. These are completely two different levels of decision-making, and here we have a classical legal gap that our Rules of Procedure did not foresee at all how this initiative was launched. I'm absolutely sure of it, because this is, the first attitude tells when there's a decision that can be declared if it has a majority and... I am therefore afraid that there is no other solution and without this conclusion, but only in the direct application of the Rules of Procedure to the application of Article 162 as proposed by the esteemed colleague Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2985	Mr. Simić, I'm asking the technical service to share this submission with everyone so that people can keep in mind what this is all about. I read it, and now I'm going to read it again. Therefore, this submission does not launch an initiative, but is declared harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people of this bill. If it were like you're saying the situation would be even clearer, but it's already been declared here.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2986	It can be declared.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2987	So it's already been declared.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2988	He can't do it any other way.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2989	Mrs. Krišto, you signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2990	I did. Here, let's just try to get this straight. Perhaps now she confused all the others at the beginning of your sentence that you said – you accept the initiative. We are not pleading at this point on the adoption of the initiative. We have declared that most of the clubs in both Croatian and Serbian clubs are not about injury to the vital national interest. That is why we have come to a situation regulated by Article 162, now we need to make a statement in front of each club to approach the formation of a commission that will also tell whether there is an agreement whether it is a violation of vital interest, because the individual commission can do the same. If it agrees that it is vital interest, then it is vital interest, if the commission does not agree, then it goes to the Constitutional Court's decision. And please let us out, we have no others. What my colleague was talking about, there is, we have in our offices a lot of gaps, but here in this situation the procedure is clear. Thank you very much, so please join the formation of a commission that will again decide within five days whether there is a breach of vital national interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2991	I'm taking a five-minute break. 56 [[PAUZA]] All right, let's get on with it. So, Mr. Genjac, I suggest, in the interest of your club, that we make a statement about what Mrs. Krišto is talking about to end this discussion further. So, I put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure as suggested by Mrs. Krišto. Let's get this procedure started. Of the 11 delegates present - 10 delegates were for, against no one, abstention 1. From the Federation – 6 for, against no one, abstention 1, from the RS – 4 for, no one against, no one abstention. There is a general and entity majority, so I conclude that, by applying the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, and in the absence of the presence of members of the College, we will, as Mrs Krišto suggested. And given that Article 160 provides that the House then decides on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, to move to a statement concerning this item of the agenda in accordance with Article 162, and in the case of opposition from most Serbian, Bosniak or Croatian delegates to Article 161(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House convenes a joint committee composed of 3 delegates, one of whom is elected by Serbian, Bosniak and Croatian delegates to resolve the issue. Given the provision ahead of us, I call on the heads of the delegates' clubs to plead on the members of this committee, and given that there is opposition to clubs, Mr. Košarac?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2993	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2994	You'll just have to sign up for the record. The Košarac has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2995	Mr. Dragutin Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2996	Thank you. The next word came from Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2997	Thank you. So, on behalf of the Croatian Club – Borjana Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2998	Thank you. 57 And the next word came from Mr. Genjac. Please technically take that, just a moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u2999	On behalf of the Bosniak Club – A Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3000	Okay. Given that the election of this commission is made by the decision of the delegates' clubs, which has been done because I do not see any opposition from the delegates themselves remains to be agreed on to call a commission within a period of no longer than five days. I suggest we take a five-minute break now and get it over with. Ten-minute break and I'm calling the session orally. [[PAUZA]] Okay. So I figure we're done working on this agenda today and we're going to point five. Ad. 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of Deposits in Banks of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples................................................................. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3005	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on deposit insurance in BiH banks is about adjustments partly incorporated in a letter of intent with the International Current Fund and harmonisation with the European Commission's directives. In short, it's about short changes. First, to secure the deposit of legal persons which was not before, but... , and that is to comply with the EU Directive. [[You don't understand.]] Then, the continuation of the participation of the banks in which the temporary administration was introduced, so that it continues to be guaranteed for deposits of natural and legal persons and to erase the possibility of the participation of the representatives of banks and banks in the work of the Management Board. And two new corrections are the introduction of a intentional premium and the introduction of membership fees as one of the sources of funding of the technical costs of agencies. I ask you today to support these amendments to the law, given that we have had a recent review of the International Monetary Fund, that we expect a new review, and that is simply our obligation, but I said that this is also in line with EU directives, and therefore we have asked for an emergency procedure, we have had full consensus within the Council of Ministers, and my request is that you support this today, given that the House of Representatives supported these amendments and complemented by emergency procedures and that we ensure the stable work of the Agency at this very turbulent time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3006	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do any of the delegates want to take a word for it? Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3007	Thank you. For formal procedural reasons, I would ask the minister to explain to us the reasons for the high degree of urgency. I understand both the needs and the talks with the IMF and I see here two directives, one from 2004, one from 2009. The EU, to which the law applies. But is there any other reason for urgency? Whether the IMF may have set some reason, because it is a law that is not quite simple to end, but I can understand if there are reasons for urgency. Let's know for those reasons, if there are. Because indeed what are the reasons for the high degree of urgency, how does the Rules of Procedure require? Thank you. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3008	Okay. I'd like to ask other delegates who want to discuss this matter to report for their word, and then the minister's answer in the end. There's no record of anyone else. Okay. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3009	Well, actually, in a conversation with the European Commission and with international financial institutions, this should have been done a long time ago. aali since there is nothing urgent in BiH, then, it is timeless to look for God's ideal and best solutions in the world. Therefore, it is European practice for legal persons to have secured deposits. We had it out of the law, no matter what the situation was. So it's a alignment with that directive. The obligation before the IMF, whenever it conducts a review, if it is not from the letter of intent they will say there is no next tranche. That's why it's an emergency procedure. And in case it comes, let's say, some kind of shock within the banking system, and it's very possible that it can happen, then the physical and legal persons who have their accounts in some banks that are threatened to stay out of insurance. So the stability of the agency and the fund is being created. That's why we're here looking for an additional source of financing for operational costs so as not to endanger work. That's why it's urgent. We can discuss as much as we want, if it comes, and we have an IMF announcement that it will come to BiH very soon for the fourth review, if this is not met, we will leave a picture of irresponsible people. So, for those reasons, I don't know what might be controversial. If there's anything controversial, I'd like to hear it. And we talked about it as part of the Council of Ministers, you know what happens to us, when we reach full consensus, but don't get angry, then break it down or one or the other House, and then you get into a situation, what your colleague Bradarić was talking about, he doesn't know how many proposals are being made, it's very little dom, I'm not saying this with any intention of teaching, and then they send us a message – if you don't pass the law we'll ask, I don't know, this or that. Okay, and we hard people come to a consensus, but don't, let's not make that minimum consensus... So here we have a full consensus and I think this deserves to go by emergency procedure today. I apologize if I went outside the box. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3010	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Mr. Genjac continues the opposition action until Monday. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3011	I don't think that's appropriate, Mr. Tadić. So you need to refrain from it, because yet the chairman of the House is something that he is. In fact, Mr Špirić, I asked very clearly for business reasons for us to make sure that there are reasons for urgency, because this law can be adopted in a parliamentary procedure in a month and 60 per month, two of which can also be adopted by emergency procedure. Now, let's see if we have an argument in front of us that we're going through an emergency procedure. And that's it, I mean no other. And the liquids you have with one and the other House, and the consensus, and the laws that have not been adopted and adopted, I would resign if I were you, it's so hard for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3012	Thank you, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3013	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3014	Mr. Špirić, do you want the word again?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3015	I won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3016	You won't, okay. Okay, we've exhausted the discussion, so let's move on to a statement on the urgency of the procedure. Out of the 10 delegates present - 8 delegates were one against, one abstained. From the Federation – 4 for, 1 against, 1 abstention, from RS – 4 for. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Council of Ministers' request to consider the amendment law and amendments to the BiH Bank Deposit Insurance Act has been adopted by an urgent procedure. If the request for an urgent procedure has been adopted, and what is, we move on to the debate on the bill's proposal. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Insurance of Deposits in Banks of BiH by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Out of the 10 delegates present, 10 delegates were for, against no one, abstentioned anyone. From the Federation – 6 for, against no one, abstentioned none, from the RS – 4 for, none against, and none abstentioned. There is a general and entity majority, so I find the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act in BiH has been adopted. Moving to point six, 61 Ad. Six. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Act At the 29th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, held on 22.05.2013, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Act with the 7th Amendments was passed. The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in the Joint Commission of both homes, has appointed delegates Staš Košarac, Borjana Krišto and Halid Genjac to agree on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination of the Fight against Corruption. At its 47th session, held on 18.04.2013, the House of Representatives adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption with 8 amendments. The joint commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the said law, held at the meeting on 04.06.2013, reached agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption and drawn up a report on which we are due today. At its 49th session, held on 08.07.2013, the House of Representatives adopted the Joint Commission Report of both homes to achieve the same text of that law. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. Thank you. We move to the statements on the Joint Commission Report of both homes on achieving agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Coordination of the fight against corruption. Of the 10 delegates present – 8 delegates were in favour, 2 delegates voted against. From the Federation – 4 for, 2 against, from RS 4 for. There is a general and entity majority, so I find the Joint Commission's report on achieving agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Act was adopted. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3020	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3021	He doesn't want to. Thank you. Now I give the word to the bill promoter if he's present. He's not even there, and there you are. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You don't want to, okay? I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Out of the 10 delegates present, 10 delegates were in favour. From Federation 6, RS 4. There is a general and entity majority, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure before the Court of BiH was adopted in the same text as in the House of Representatives. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons (First Reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3024	It's like the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3025	It's like the report. Thank you. I give the word to the bill promoter if he wants to. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] He doesn't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Borjana Krišto answered her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3027	I will only ask very briefly, since at the Joint Defence and Security Committee we have also considered these proposals of the law, how much do I know that there was a need to comply with the European Convention and another law governing the issue of dual purpose, i.e. a dedicated industry, such as explosives, so I'm just asking if there was a need to comply with this law if the motion is there and when will we find ourselves in the procedure and this other law that should also be brought into line with the European Convention? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3028	Thank you. There are no further reports. Does the promoter want to answer these questions? Okay? Here you go. _________(?) I want to say hello to all of you. I'm from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. So this section relating to chemical weapons is according to the Chemical Weapons Convention and it is special, and the law existing on external trade control of goods of strategic importance for the security of BiH, it has two components, both military and... And since we use the EU product list, it is said that this EU list also includes this Convention. Due to the needs and European standards, and our applications for admission to... the Convention we are now preparing from this existing Law on Foreign Trade Control of the Strategic Two Laws. One's... one's military equipment. Both are completed in the draft, we are just waiting for the procedure to be a committee appointed to formally do the law in accordance with the Unique Rules. We planned to, so in this III quarter, so is the Council of Ministers' Work Plan, be that law on the Council and he will believe in 65 this time, probably in the Council. So, conventions were made, even that law... and European experts were there, so we agreed with them. So, the law was done by the end of the III quarter, when it was planned, it would be on the Council of Ministers. That's it. Thank you. I don't have any other applications for participation in the discussion. We're moving on to a plea. I find that this vote was attended by 10 delegates – 10 delegates were in favour. From Federation 6, RS 4. In view of the fact that there is a general and entity majority of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and its destruction has been adopted in the first reading. We're moving on to Dot 10, Ad. Ten. Annual report on the results of the activities of the BiH Ombudsman Institution and the Annual Report on the occurrences of discrimination in BiH for 2012
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3035	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3036	Shall I continue or do you want a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3037	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3038	Okay. We're going back to the previous point and that's point 12. Please, sign in. Dear Mrs. Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3039	Thank you very much. I just wanted to be kind of expedient, since we did so in the last session, when we resolved members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and 68 Quality Insurance of BiH, and currently there is a Joint Commission calling for the selection and selection and procedure, to immediately assign this Joint Commission to enter the tender procedure for this vacant position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3040	Okay. Now I suggest we make a statement about Mrs. Krišto proposal. Here you go. Out of the 12 delegates present, 11 delegates were against no one, abstentioned – 1 delegate. From the Federation – 7 for, 1 abstention, and from the Serbian 4 for. There's a general and entity majority, so I find that Mrs. Krišto proposal has been adopted. On today's agenda, we still have the agreement to ratify the agreement and the amendments to the agreements. I propose that we bring together the debate on granting consent to ratify the agreement and amendments to the agreements, from point 13 to point 18, including point 18. I'm opening a debate. Who's up for this proposal? There are no reports. We're moving on to a plea. Of the 12 delegates present, there were 12 delegates. Among the delegates present from Federation 8 were for but from Serbia 4 for. The general and ethnic majority exist, so I find this proposal adopted. Ad. 13. - 18. Giving consent to ratification of agreements and amendments to agreements You have received a report from the Commission on foreign trade policy, customs, traffic and communication. I give my word to the Commission's representative, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3042	It's like the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-15-0.u3043	It's like the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. We move to a declaration of consent for ratification of the agreement and amendments to the agreements from point 13 to point 18, including point 18. Please initiate the vote. 69 Out of the 12 delegates present, 12 delegates were in favour. From Federation 8, from Serbia 4. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that we have agreed to ratify the agreement and amendments to the agreements from point 13 to point 18, including point 18. This concludes today's session. Unless someone has something to add, consider us done. And the next one will be 23, so plan. Some July, some 7th, some July. Session completed at 1600 hours.
