ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13230	I would ask my colleagues and colleagues to take their seats, to begin the session, because as far as I can see, we have a quorum. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 40th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of NGOs, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. And here, at the beginning of this New Year's Eve, I wish everyone good health, personal happiness, and we as an institution a successful work on the well-being of all BiH citizens. The absence was justified by MP Nermin Purić. According to the information service, there are 35 representatives present and we can discuss and decide. As for the change and addition of the session agenda, I would like to note that we added to the agenda: point 16. Approving the ratification of the EC IPA Grant Agreement (Second management project: Mostar and Banja Luka) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, acting as administrator of the European Commission for Trust Fund of the European Union Pre-accession Instrument, signed in Sarajevo and the amendment to the EC IPA Grant Agreement (TF No. 011456, which was signed in Washington and 22.08.2012 in Sarajevo on 08.08.2012. Point 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Agreement (the Sava River Rehabilitation Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which acts as the administrator of the European Commission for Trust Fund Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance of the European Union. Point 18. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on cooperation in the field of health and medical science. 2 Point 19. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on defence co-operation. Point 21. Giving consent to ratifying the Memorandum of Understanding between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on tourism co-operation. Point 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Implementing Protocol between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Czech Republic under the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the reading of persons staying without authorisation. Point 23. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment I to the Agreement relating to the Credit Agreement signed on 21 March 2011 for the financing of the Equipment Delivery and Service Project for Two Hospitals in Sarajevo, between Bosnia and Herzegovina, which represents the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH and Uni Credit Bank Austria AG. And the agenda has been downloaded: point 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Postages of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: MPs Mladen Bosić, Aleksandra Pandurević, Darko Babalj, Borislav Bojić and Vesna Krstović-Spremo, Law No: 01-02-1-46/12 of 22.11.2012. (first reading), because the proposings withdrew the bill from the procedure. I point 14. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the state of the case being conducted before the Strasbourg Court against Bosnia and Herzegovina, with an assessment of their possible implications for Bosnia and Herzegovina (realisation of the initiative of MP Nermin Purić, was submitted at the 14th session of the House of Representatives held on 24.11.2011 and adopted at the 24th session of the House, held on 15.03.2012.), number: 01-50-1-15-14/11 of 10.12.2012, at the request of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, because the session of the Committee was not maintained by the lack of quorum. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go. I don't have any reports to discuss and I'm deciding that the 40th House Session has the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 39th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Representative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New issues of representation; 3. Proposal for a Law on Mine Action in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-39/12 of 11/09/2012. (second reading); 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Judicial Police – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-50/12 of 04.12.2012. (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight in the field of defence and security of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint Defence and Security Commission for BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-48/12 of 29.11.2012. (first reading); 3 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-51/12 of 07.12.2012. (first reading); 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency – Proposers Dušanka Majkić, Beriz Belkić and Niko Lozančić, Law No: 01,02-02-1-52/12 of 10.12.2012. (First Reading); 8 / 8 Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading); 9. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2011, material of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH; 10. Decision of the BiH presidency on the participation of the BiH Armed Forces military police unit in the International Security Assistance Force operation of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, issue: 01,02-03-1376/12 of 13.12.2012; 11. The appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the ranking of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 01,02-34-1-1374/12 of 13.12.2012; 12. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Nermina European Zaimović-Uzunović with BiH 2008-2012, the material of the BiH Directorate for European Integration, issue: 01,02,03/6-06-1279/12 of 15.11.2012, which reads: "In the work plan of the Council of Ministers for 2013-2012, the establishment of a strategy for certain areas for which the ministries will submit an application for IPA 2014–2020.’; Consideration of MP Dušanka Majkić's initiative, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I refer to the parliamentary initiative for discussion at the House of Representatives' session on the subject: The consequences of the destruction of ammunition and mine-explosive assets (MIMES) on the “Barbara” polygon by local population in the Municipality of Glamoc’; 14. Adherence to the ratification of the IPA Grant EC Agreement (Other Crude Waste Management Project: Mostar and Banja Luka) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Rural and Development, acting as administrator of the European Commission for Trust Fund of the European Union Pre-accession Instrument, signed in Sarajevo and the amendment to the EC IPA Grant Agreement (TF No. 011456), which was signed in Washington and 22.08.2012 in Sarajevo, on 08.08.2012; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Agreement (the Sava River Rehabilitation Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which acts as administrator of the European Commission for Trust Fund Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance of the European Union; 16. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on cooperation in the field of health and medical science; 17. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on Defence Cooperation; 18. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Moldova on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, No: 01,02-05-2-1377/12 of 14.12.2012; 4 19. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Understanding between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on cooperation in the field of tourism; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Implementing Protocol between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Czech Republic under the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the reading of persons staying without authorisation; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment I to the Agreement relating to the Credit Agreement signed on 21 March 2011 for the financing of the Equipment Delivery and Service Project for Two Hospitals in Sarajevo, between Bosnia and Herzegovina, which represents the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH and United Credit Bank Austria AG. We're going over the agenda. Point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 39th session of the House of Representatives You've won the 39th session record. Do you have any objections? There's no record of a hearing. We're moving to two agendas, Ad. 2. Representative questions: (a) Comments on answers received
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13233	A comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13234	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13235	First of all, I would like to congratulate all my colleagues and Parliament's leadership on the New Year, the media and the others present and to comment on the part of the response received. 5 I have received an answer from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I remind myself that I have asked the institutions of BiH and the Federal Government, I believe that the few holidays have influenced me not to get an answer, because I cannot fully plead if I do not have the full answer, and I would ask the service to suggest that I get this answer, because I really need it for further comment on this answer. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13236	Thank you. So, I think this is now the next application for a new parliamentary issue, Nermina Zaimović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13237	A comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13238	Thank you, Your Honor. I would only like to make comments, under the section, i.e. under the point Comments on the answers received and for...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13239	I'm sorry I don't have a record here. It's probably for the previous session either.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13240	Yeah, but I'll just look back with a comment on the unaccounted for. I wonder how much it makes sense for the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to ask questions when I have not received answers to at least four questions for a long time. The issues concern, above all, the fulfilment of the conditions for European integration, the preparation of our institutions when it comes to exports to the Republic of Croatia after joining the EU. So I think these are important issues and I urge the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to forward the answers to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13241	Thank you. Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13242	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I thank the office for, the Office for Harmonisation and Coordination of the Payment System in Agriculture, Nutrition and Rural Development of BiH. This is a very large answer I got. However, I would like first of all to express my satisfaction with the presence of the Chair of the Council of Ministers and at today's session, to ask the Council of Ministers and the Competent Ministry to do everything in terms of tasks and 6 of the obligations that arise in the appointment of management and competition in order to complete these procedures and other activities, so that this Office can carry out its tasks, so that in the next progress report we do not have a negative opinion on the work on this Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13243	Thank you. Dear Representative Adnan Bašić, I assume there is a comment at one of the previous sessions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13244	No, no, new question, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13245	Okay. Then we conclude, so the comments, we move on to a) New parliamentary issues The first to ask questions came from a respected representative, Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, from the heart of all of you younger than me, I wish for many more beautiful years, good health and happiness in every respect in the New Year's Eve. I have asked two parliamentary questions this time, they are very important for all of BiH and I often like to ask questions like this that concern our lives today and where we are. First of all, it is about enormous pollution, and the initiative has given me a recent event, unfortunately a sad event in Zenica, and, of course, an article in our means of information where my town Kakanj simply became a parameter for determining the most pollution, as it was recently in Sarajevo, and it is said that there was so much enormous pollution in Sarajevo in the city center almost as much as in Kakanja. So we became a regrettable finding as one of the most polluted cities in BiH. We're being determined by everyone else. It's got to be resolved sometime. My parliamentary question has been addressed to the government of the Federation of BiH and the Government of the Women's-Doboj Canton, and I will, of course, hand it over in writing, as well as this. The second is something that we often hesitate to talk openly about, and that is a growing decline in our higher education rating. Believe me, a huge number of diplomas are becoming suspicious. Sometimes prominent Sarajevo universities and universities across the country today or tomorrow may be under suspicion of whether our graduates, our sons and daughters, and I believe that many of you here have their children who have already arrived, let me say also on the way to higher education at any university and university, and tomorrow those children should be ashamed if someone starts to question their diploma. It's a terrible slap for all of us and as parents, especially for those of us who care about it in the legislative and legal system. I think that too many colleges of doubt must finally stop seven, we must restore the reputation and dignity of our universities and our colleges. We need to rule out any suspicious college degree that might make our kids blush somewhere else. And believe me, a large number of our children who finish their regular college education want their education to continue somewhere else. And what if their diploma turns out to be suspicious and checked? It is a moral slap on those children who have persistently spent four or five years trying to master material and eventually become graduates and academically educated citizens. Please, this may be an object for us to think about, but I'd give one other finding, if we all had a very, very good idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13248	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13249	Gentlemen Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow representatives and esteemed guests, I join with congratulations and beautiful wishes for the New 2013 year. I actually don't have a new question, but I want to point out that I'm delivering answers to the already asked questions. I have asked several previous sessions a significant number of questions, especially the Ministry of Transport and Communications, as well as the Ministry of Defence and so on. That is why I propose to the College that we be provided with a review of the questions asked by MPs and MPs who have not received answers. Well, since it is here and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I'm asking for a little update on the delivery of the birds, especially for us opposition representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13250	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13251	I have a question for the Council of Ministers, or for the chairman. The question is very simple and I would be very pleased if the chairman of the Council of Ministers answered us immediately, he does not ask for any additional actions. So the question is: Does the Council of Ministers intend to work for 2013 without a work programme? So, we, the BiH Party MPs from the moment we were confirming the mandate, the original composition of the Council of Ministers, amendments, etc., have repeatedly insisted on it and asked to see what people are gathering on, on which platforms they work, on which they work. Unfortunately, we've never gotten a piece of paper that talks about it before. So, I ask the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers – Are we going to have the Council of Ministers' work programme for 2013, because it is one of the basics for drawing up this Parliament's orientation plan, or are we going to wait for six people to find out by several laws here and there, and then we do it in such a way. Thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13252	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13253	Mr. Chairman. I have two parliamentary questions, and I'm going to say briefly what this is about, and I'm going to deliver it in writing. So, the first question has to do with, the minister of security has been asked and has to do with Mr Ahmetović's statement at the 31st session of this House, which he says, where he claims that more than 50% of his employees are connected to organised crime at the Ministry of Security. And the second question is I'm telling the director of the Corruption Prevention Agency and it has something to do with the disappearance of a car outside a private apartment.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13254	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13255	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. My question is addressed to the BiH Ministry of Transport and Communications, which refers to the BiH Air Navigation Service Agency, the short name BHANSA. In 2009, therefore, the Parliamentary Assembly adopted the Law on the Agency for the provision of air navigation services. The agency is a non-profit and financialally independent institution that has legal personality status, based in Mostar. According to Article 8 of that Law, the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the founders of the Agency shall be carried out by the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers. Since this Agency is established as an institution of BiH, as well as the fact that since its establishment there is no information about what is happening in this area, or whether that Agency fulfils the competences for which it is established, I ask that my questions be answered: 1. Specify the individual names and qualifications of all persons who form the Administration, Director and two deputy and Board BHANSA? When were they appointed? What's national representation? From which BiH institution does each individual member of the Agency's Council come from? 2. How many meetings of the Agency's Council were held in 2012? 3. What is the total income, and what is the Agency's expenditure in 2011? 4. Has the Council of Ministers adopted the Annual Report of the Agency, which includes the report of an independent auditor? 5. How much is it to the members of the Council? Six. How much is the benefit of providing air navigation services? Seven. Provide fees for other services in air navigation, type and price. So I hope we finally manage to catch a thread with one of the institutions that we've lost all contact with. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13256	Thank you. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13257	Thank you. I only have one question to ask the Council of Ministers – What are the receipts of directors of state institutions and their first associates and on what basis? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13258	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13259	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all and wish for 2013 even more successful. My question concerns the Council of Ministers, and it actually reads similarly, it was not agreed between me and Mr, the esteemed representative Beriz Belkić, but in principle it is the same, and there is also the chairman of the Council of Ministers, so perhaps he can answer us. The question concerns – Has the BiH Council of Ministers adopted the 2013 Work Programme? If so, I would ask that the data be delivered to me – how much are they planning to hold a session, or under two – to provide information on how much they plan to refer to the parliamentary procedure of the new laws and what laws, and how many amendments and additions to the law, and to what laws does this apply? If no programme has been adopted by the Council of Ministers, I ask the chairman to do what is more urgent, i.e. until the next session of the House of Representatives, scheduled for January 31st. In order to be able to track the work and verify anyone, so first we need to have a plan and I think it's necessary to bring it, because that manager's saying – if you don't have a goal then all paths are good. And I think we do, I think we have a goal, and that's what we need to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13260	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13261	Thank you, Chairman. And I join the congratulations of all present and I want a good, successful and happy New Year for all BiH citizens. 10 Here, I have for today's session a question that reads – how many CEMT permits the Ministry of Transport and Communications issued for 2012. A year? How many CEMT licences were issued for RS carriers and how many for Federation carriers? Please provide me with the points of each of the carriers that sent the request for CEMT licences, as well as the criteria by which the carriers were assessed. I'm asking for a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13262	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13263	Thank you, Chairman. My question is addressed to the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Security Agency. Namely, on the website of the Association of agencies for the Quality of Islamic World, there is also the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security of BiH on the list of full members, under regular number 4. Also on the same page is information that three round tables have been held so far, where BiH has undertaken certain commitments and has accepted certain declarations. So please provide me with detailed information which body or BiH institution has decided that the Higher Education and Quality Security Agency should be a full member of this association? Who represented BiH, and by whose authority, in the work of round tables? What obligations BiH has made with this membership and whether they are in coalition with commitments from the Bologna Declaration and other declarations, conventions, guidelines, standards, which BiH has committed to implementing. And, I would like to refer another one here, I would say, an emergency for an initiative already adopted here by this Parliament on 27 October 2011, and the initiative referred to the inclusion in the agenda of the points – Report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of measures and activities to address the problems of BiH citizens who have been employed and settled in the Republic of Croatia and in the period since '91. '95. without a job. We are here in this House, the Human Rights Commission has also held several round tables with representatives of two associations. Unfortunately, here it is from October 27, 2011. The Minister's advice didn't provide us with any information, and I'm asking them to finally do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13264	Thank you. Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13265	I have two brief questions for the Council of Ministers. First of all, it refers to the Official Messenger of BiH – Why does the Public Enterprise of the News and Health Organisation, the Official Messenger of BiH not apply the Law on the Official Journal of BiH, "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 1/97, 9/04 and 103/09, in a way that enables free access to the content of "The Official Messenger of BiH" on its website? I'm asking for an answer to be delivered in writing. 11 I ask the second question on the basis of applications from a number of agency employees, in BiH institutions. It's about an employee at the BiH and SIPA Border Police. Namely, a number of these employees arrive this year, based on the Labour Act in these institutions, the right to retire at the end of 40 years of employment. However, by adopting the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance, a BiH worker who is 40 years of employment and under 56 years of age cannot exercise his right to retire. Therefore, please, whether talks are being held between the Council of Ministers and the competent ministries in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order for this problem to be solved, so that one number of pensions are not obtained this year with March 1st, let us say in 2013 and only for 4 or 5 years to use the right to retire. This is not only about these employees, but also about members of the Armed Forces, especially the officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13266	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13267	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers with his associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Since we congratulated ourselves, and as people, we have an obligation to congratulate, but few reasons for the pleasures, but here's a question for the BiH Electroprenos. The press said they would do something for the municipalities of eastern Herzegovina, and it is mainly the municipalities of Ljubinj, Berkovici, East Mostar, which have ten days without electricity, because they have one central power line built in an earlier BiH system, and as I know, Elektroprivredas are separated. They used to give somewhere, someone was making all kinds of statements, but I ask – when will they approach realization to create some alternative direction for people to have electricity there? Come on, somehow an elementary accident can be understood during the winter period, so the power's out. But in the 21st century, people around the country and the villages and local communities have no electricity just because they haven't made that alternative direction. And you'll see in the press, everywhere, in the Elektroprenos account, and now the battle between the two entities is the biggest, because the Council of Ministers has big problems with how to distribute 230 seems to be 6 million, which there are practically blocked funds. And I do not ask that it be spent, but let it be spent to help the people, and not to stand in some accounts without any of them benefiting. That's why I'm asking for a written answer. And one more thing, we all ask these questions and... we get answers. Sometimes we're satisfied, sometimes we're not. That's what the esteemed colleague said and a few of them, in fact everyone says so – I get answers. And from those answers, I'm just wondering if there are any responsibilities from those answers. They answer nicely, but no one moves on to the realization of what we're looking for. And then what happens? The MPs kind of asked, no one's answering anyone. Realisation of our initiatives, questions, which are why citizens are asking us to start something. And then what happens? We're guilty of everything, nobody else, I always ask this, it's a key question for me -- to see sometimes, and the chairman does it well, say hello to all those who are present at the beginning, no matter when you say hello, not you, not guilty, the representatives of these agencies, the unfortunate institutions that work, which I never see. I always see the same composition, and they need me to ask them never to see them. What I'm going to ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers, when a man works, but I don't see those directors of the agencies that 12 of them have been talking about, who spend all this money, and we can't ask them, we just ask them questions. Let me see them once, look him straight in the eye and ask him.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13268	Thank you. Dear Representative Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13269	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, here I am also taking the opportunity to congratulate you all on New Year's Eve. I have a parliamentary initiative. I propose that the BiH Council of Ministers adopt and deliver an action plan to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with clear obligations, responsible institutions and deadlines for meeting the conditions for submitting an application to start EU accession negotiations. So, a brief explanation: One of the biggest problems of this country is surely committed and held accountable. We are less aware of what we have to do with our commitments. Our country's top foreign policy priority is EU membership, and I think in 2013, the best response we can offer for the state and responsibility, for the situation in which we are and for the future of this country, should be that 2013 should be a European year. That is why this initiative in this sense needs to clearly define which way and how we will achieve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13270	Thank you. Dear Representative Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13271	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, is also the most beautiful of all this year. The issue is very short to the Ministry of Finance, and it concerns some details relating to the implementation of the City Water Recovery and Sewerage Project in Kostanica Municipality. Since these are minor, petty details, I would like to submit my question in writing that I am not burdening the House of Representatives, so the Ministry of Finance with regard to the construction of the City Water Recovery Project and the sewerage in Costa Rica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13272	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13273	Thank you, Chairman. I'm also taking the opportunity to congratulate everyone New Year's Eve. 13 I have two questions, or three. – How many financial resources have given donations to individual ministries and administrative organisations, and has the spending control been carried out? Are these funds used for purpose from 2006 to 2012? Second question – How many individual ministries spent on projects? Are the funds used for purpose, what are the effects of the projects from 2006 to 2012? And, may I remind this House of Representatives that I asked a very important question, and that is the question of when will the construction of the bridge begin at Savi near Gradiška? And now it's up to date. Many people are really bitter about their lives when they enter this probably black spot, they probably wear it in their minds, in BiH, when they have to wait 4-5 hours to enter... and by building a bridge on Savi these things would greatly improve. And I don't see a political establishment taking action that way. It has been said recently that Croatia has no will to build it. Because the funds are not such that they can't start building that bridge, or they're going to the bridge. I asked that question back some months and something. I don't have an answer. It is noticeable, I must say, that it is noticeable that this Ministry of Communications and Transport is not giving answers to questions, but this is the second, third case, so I would ask the Chair of the Council of Ministers to use his authority in that direction at the Council meeting. So, I would like to give one initiative to the MP – when will the Council of Ministers reactivate the Public Procurement Act? So, according to my information, that law was in debate, but now it stands. If he's not like him, when will he approach the new law, because that question is particularly relevant? It has been observed on several occasions, so at these sessions, that they are being spent, or that BiH is losing very large funds. And when it comes to 100 million people, when it comes to the budget, we do not tend to accept it for days, and according to the assessment of BiH NGOs, we lose over a billion and a half, even more, funds on that basis. I don't know what the Council of Ministers is waiting for. If anything is priority, urgent, then it's a matter, to cut costs, to save some money.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13274	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13275	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13276	I would only ask the distinguished representative, Petar Kunić, to formulate this initiative as an initiative, because it is, in fact, how it is explained that it is the form and content of the question. Well, I expect that in writing it will be formulated as an initiative. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13277	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, and I join all those who have sent greetings and wishes for successful work in this event in 2013. I welcome you all, and don't be angry, especially I welcome the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda, who is present here. 14 The chairman of the Council of Ministers, we are at least taught to do so, are present only when the appointment is carried out, when the budget is adopted, at least I'm so used to the years of experience here in this House, and when there is another point of the agenda that is, for example, related to the work report or the work programme, etc. But we have the chairman, I welcome, therefore, that fact and I want that whenever possible, it is not always possible, the chairman of the Council of Ministers to be present at the Parliament's session and I do not want his presence to go silent today. I want to ask him one question and I'd like to ask him if he can give us an answer. I've been waiting a long time to answer that question. If he's in no condition, then I'd ask him to respond directly to one of the next sessions here at the pay phone. So, it doesn't have to be today, but I want the presence of the Council of Ministers to not be just like that, so kicks at Parliament's sessions. Last time I asked a question about the construction of a hydropower plant on the Drina River and respecting the state concession law. The question went to the Council of Ministers and reads – Did the Council of Ministers take any action related to, in the media we find out whether the activities of the Republika Srpska government in the construction of hydropower plants on the Drina River have already been concluded with some companies. Because, concessiono well, so the Drina River is a concessiono good that directly concerns the international subjectivity of BiH. This is a concession of good which, therefore, the Drina River affects both Bosnian-Herzegovina entities and according to an explicit legal standard, is the responsibility of the State Commission for concessions, i.e. the Council of Ministers, or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. That is a very important and urgent question for me, and if, therefore, the chairman of the Council of Ministers is able to give us some concrete answer today, I would ask him to do it at the pay phone, if not, then I would certainly ask him to give the answer to this question personally at one of the next sessions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13278	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13279	Thank you. I have three questions. First of all, it refers first to the Ministry of Transport and Communications. And since they had previously had a comment on the answers from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, I would have taken this opportunity and asked for answers, above all the Council of Ministers on Transport Problems, because 5.6 months ago I referred questions to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, but I have not received the answers so far. There were various areas of interest to me, but what I want crucially is that, I want to know what happens to transport policy and transport strategy in the BiH area? And I'd like to ask the Council of Ministers to try to provide me with an answer in this regard. The second question I would also like to ask Mr. Bevanda concerns the invitation and letter from Mr. Štefan File, who sent it three weeks ago, a month ago, regarding the agreement of our representatives in Brussels, and what does it seem? 15 and a third question. Since in the past month or two, we have witnessed that often in the area of Like, or in certain municipalities, the mining of excess mine-explosive resources, with huge material damages, interests me first of all what is happening in this respect, how this problem can occur, since the damages that occur. They can certainly be expected within a short period of time to be borne by this Budget, eventually by this people, and therefore I think it would be good to deal with this problem as well. Because these damages suffered by owners in the immediate vicinity, practically where is the responsibility of the people who carry out these mines and do they comply with the standards in that area? That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13280	Thank you. No more reports. I'm finalizing the second item of the agenda. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Mine Action in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) This Proposal for a Law was adopted in the first reading at the 36th session of the House, held on 22.11.2012. The report was submitted by the Joint Defence and Security Committee on 28.12.2012. Eight amendments have been adopted that become an integral part of the Law. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the third item of the agenda. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Judicial Police – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13283	No microphone 16
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13284	Excuse me, please. Representative Šefik Džaferović, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13285	I don't want to, Chairman, I let the session take place, but I still can't take it, I mean, I have to say it here. I have referred a question and a request and I think that, in order to express myself lightly, if it wasn't okay, it would not be correct to go over it like no one said anything here. Let us be told, you could have asked the chairman if, if you could answer, you couldn't. To know that the public knows, I think. I thought I wasn't making a problem, but I can't keep it quiet, I have to say it. So, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13286	Thank you. I followed closely, so my right-hand side and that at any point the president wanted to, so to speak, or felt necessary, he would have received a priority word. And you yourself, in your question, have actually suggested that it doesn't have to be in today's session. [[Common discussion]] Thank you. So we continue the debate. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight in the field of defence and security of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint Defence and Security Commission for BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13289	I'll certainly be brief, given that I'm a member of this defense and security committee, just a few things. I welcome, of course, among other things, that this initiative has been signed by almost all political parties and those interested in the Law on Parliamentary Oversight in the area of defence and security. 17 What is it that I wanted to say in the debate about this Law? I think this is a good legal project that will certainly get support here at the House of Representatives. And subsequently, I would like to refer, among other things, to a discussion that should draw attention, among other things, to a committee of inquiry. One of them is the Research Commission on Donor Resources, on spending donor funds in BiH that did not finish its job, to say, for the simple reason there was no law that would define the issue of parliamentary investigations. Finally, in my opinion, this Commission did not have a tool that could do its job. Given that this Defence Commission is now getting a very powerful tool that will be able to do its job, how it will work we will see, we will have the opportunity to look at the results of this Commission's work, the work of the Commission itself regarding the use of the law in question, since it will get, here's the authority to call persons, conduct an investigation and so on. I think that this Parliamentary Assembly, or the Commission itself, would, if it still exists, because I don't know which, even though I am a member of this Commission, I don't even know what its destiny was, I just know that it wasn't the result that the House of Representatives expected, or how the public expected it. Therefore, I would use the opportunity, therefore, to incentivise all my colleagues in a way, since it is not possible to come to any solution, or a legal project without a consensus among several political entities participating here in the House of Representatives, in some ways, to draw attention and call on colleagues interested in accessing or developing such a legal project that will define the issue of parliamentary investigations. Not only those relating to the area of defence and security, but also those for which this House of Representatives has been committed to appoint a Commission to conduct an investigation. So if these commissions don't have a tool in their hands to carry out these investigations, it's hard to expect any kind of results. I have also offered some other solutions during the debate on this issue, but I do not want to talk about them, in particular that the topic of debate is not the issue, I am merely taking the opportunity to point out my humble thinking and call on colleagues who are interested, if we want to achieve any kind of progress in the area of investigation at all by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, then adopting this kind of legislation is something that will provide an opportunity for us elected in the House of Representatives to be able to carry out the tasks of conducting parliamentary investigations. So, support to this legal project itself and the call. Thank you again very much. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13290	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13291	Well, I also support the principles contained in this law, and I think this is a significant step forward. And in this direction spoken of by the esteemed colleague Bojić, I join the tape. I think we should be on the verge of considering a law that will qualityly regulate the area of parliamentary investigations. Since we are on this subject, I would only suggest – this Law is in the first reading and of course has enough time to consider it. Here in Article 2 which provides definitions of a certain 18 essential terms, I would suggest or perhaps give to the thinking when it comes to defining a parliamentary investigation that perhaps instead of this formulation that is said to be a set of measures and actions taken to achieve parliamentary supervision, in order to establish, in the work of an institution or bodies subject to supervision, a slightly different definition is used, and that a parliamentary investigation is all said to be in order to carry out parliamentary supervision in order to establish, in the work of supervised bodies of institutions, the existence of proceedings against the law or whether proceedings were against the law. I think that this, because it does not have to, does not necessarily necessarily require a parliamentary investigation to determine the conduct against the law and it is not justified only if such a resolution is, but if we have any doubts that cannot be removed in some normal way, then parliamentary investigations should be conducted to resolve these doubts. So whether or not it was against the law in the work of certain institutions subject to supervision by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13292	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13293	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. This is the Law that has long been working on and, as you have seen, the Law has been drawn up and put into parliamentary procedure by the Commission, in fact the Joint Commission for Defence and Security and, in fact, the members of the Commission, since they are the only, according to the Rules of Procedure, possible that they are the only promoters, actually the promoters of this Law. I suggest that the House of Representatives adopt the law. This law needs BiH, it is one place to settle this important issue. Each member listed in the Law was subjected to a serious analysis at several meetings and several consultations. Here, in the organization of all this and in the complete project, we were also helped by the OSCE Mission to BiH. I'm taking the opportunity to thank them for that. I ask the MPs to support this law in their first reading. All those who think that some definitions or some solutions should look different should submit amendments and will certainly be subjected to a detailed analysis like any member of the Law, indeed. Believe me, it went from member to member, I took part several times, so I took part in it, when from member to member went and questioned the definitions and solutions of this Law. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13294	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13295	Thank you. I, therefore, would support the principles, but perhaps when the composition of this commission is tied from home, the Law does not specify the authority of the opposition anywhere. I think that should be specified – as much from 19 authorities as there are from the opposition, because I think the basic democratic principles are that we have power and opposition and that we compete in this game. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13296	Thank you. I'm closing the debate at point five. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The BiH Council of Ministers delivered the proposal on 07.12.2012 in a procedure requiring a preliminary review, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. At the 39th House session, held on 18.12.2012, the promoter redesigned the application for a procedure so that a shortened procedure was proposed instead of a hasty proposal. This session accepted a request for a shortened procedure. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis on 28.12.2012. The committee responsible for finance and the budget delivered an opinion on the principles this morning. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13298	So, as far as this law is concerned, which, as you said, has been in the process for a very long time, my relationship with him has not changed. I still don't think it was necessary to amend and supplement the existing law, of course, assuming that the existing law is 100% implemented, that deadlines are respected when it comes to budgeting and so forth. But here's the thing, when it's like that in my opinion, it shouldn't have gone into a broader change except for those of the service procedures, because everything that's wider, I don't think it's good, at least for me. First of all, I'm interested, but I don't know if I can get an answer, whether the minister, Mr Špirić, has been consulted, because these changes were later happening, Mr Špirić is on treatment, I don't know if he's been consulted. But here, let me tell you what it is that I don't think is good. It's a good thing it gave up the changes and additions that applied to the Central Bank, but it's still a problem that temporary funding is practically predicted as, and assumed as a constant phenomenon because there's no limit. It is also incomprehensible to me, and it is not in accordance with the Constitution, that the budget deadline is set on 31.03. of the current year. The budget is clearly said to be passed every year. Furthermore, in these amendments there remained the right of the Council of Ministers to make specific decisions during the temporary financing of expenditures not foreseen in the budget of the previous year, which remained of course for temporary financing. So, this fact aside from allowing the Council of Ministers to, in some ways, significantly create a certain kind of expenditure without the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. It also raises the question of whose damage the redistribution will be done, as it remains at the level of the previous 20 years. So in order to introduce some new item that was not envisaged, it must be downloaded to someone who is on temporary funding at the budget level of the previous year. And in the end, one practice is being introduced, of course, I'm in favour of tightening responsibility and so on, but it seems that the finance minister is making us less equal because we provide him with criminal provisions. It would be very good if all ministers and all of us in Parliament, or Parliament's leadership, were subject to penalties when we do not do something. So, I'm against individual extraction from context, so to speak, and prescribing punishment to one of the executives. So these are the reasons why we won't support these changes or the additions either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13299	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13300	Thank you. The Constitution of BiH, Article 8, paragraph (1) says that the Presidency proposes to the Parliamentary Assembly, and most importantly in this Constitution Article 8(2) says – if such a budget is not adopted in a timely manner, the budget of the previous year will be used on a provisional basis. So, in principle, I agree with this amendment and supplementation proposal when it comes to precision of public debt payments, because we had damages last year. We had to pay interest because it wasn't exactly precise how public debt was defined. However, there is little confusion here when the item (6) is around, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will bring it by 31 March each year. I mean, here, we've been thinking a little bit about it at the Committee today, so I think here this attitude, and we had a promise from the Deputy Minister that there would be some changes and additions, so I just think this part should fix it a little bit, and this rest, I think, is fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13301	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13302	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected guests, Council of Ministers and ministers. Here, I'd just like to make my contribution to this debate and support this bill. It has indeed received a certain correction compared to the previously proposed solution. We see there's going to be another intervention, if I understand correctly, by the promoter, because I know which way it's going. But I simply want to show my support once again and indeed have confirmed that this solution and this problem that we had last year need further clarification as to how this is more, whether it would not be long and clearly precise. 21 But my remark, in addition to these other remarks, may have been made, or which will be said here, I would refer more to the explanation. I don't think there's any need to mention or point out that due to the non-payment of external debt, there's been a reduction in credit ratings. Whoever is in the profession and who knows, it can be the non-service of an external debt just one stone in the entire mosaic of elements that affect the credit rating of a country and so on and so on. And as for the repayment of the debt during that period, since I was a minister, I must say that there was no delay one day without the consent of the European Commission and the investor. I mean, if someone forgot, I'd just like to remind them. And on the other hand, when it comes to calling the IMF, we've talked a lot of times. The IMF has a role to play, we run our policy, and these are our policies, our proposals, I don't think we should call on the IMF, but simply, the letter of intent and our relationship is something that is now in this period, and it shouldn't stand when it comes to the law. And this I agree with what counterpart Belkić said, I don't think it's necessary to single out specifically on one law... the minister, if the other elements aren't criminally responsible, then it's nice to be a minister. But I know it's very different and all ministers must be the same and the law applies to everything equally and in all positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13303	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13304	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, and I'm taking the opportunity to congratulate everyone New Year's Eve, wish a lot of happiness, success, and health above all. We had a debate on the law on the Commission this morning and with 5 votes in favour and 2 votes against this law and proposed. I think it's a good thing he's been returned to the previous proposal because there has been a significant improvement in this text. It's especially good that in some ways it ensures the safety of payment of the ino-long. Here, I fully agree with Mr. Vrankić, it did not have a more significant impact on the reduction of ratings, but it affected a general climate in BiH that we are not in Parliament able to bring such an important document. Therefore, it is good that this improvement and more precise definition took place. When it comes to the minister's responsibility, where we are fortunate to have specified in all acts and laws some responsibilities and other ministers. It is likely that discipline in this case would be much greater and better, regardless of what most ministers have to say, they are doing their jobs in a high-quality and secure way that they can and know best. Therefore, there should always be a legal provision that will in some way oblige them to make sure that what is in the law is mandatory and implemented. And we don't sometimes have a problem with ministers and how far away our agencies are that we don't have any contact with, and to a good extent they're estranged, quite the centers of power. For these reasons, I would like to discuss and discuss these reports, to get reports of the work of these agencies so that we can influence them. 22 I think that, since only the ministry has announced that certain amendments will occur, I think you should better define this term that it must be adopted by 31.03, and the Constitution says that it will be adopted in the current year, by the end of the current year, before the beginning of next year, in some ways a little more skillful. I don't know what the term "must" means, what happens if it doesn't? Well, that might be a more favourable term. Otherwise, from the SNSD, we will support the proposal for this law, and it is possible that we will have certain amendments to what we will see through public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13305	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'll tell you in front of the SDA Club that we still, when it comes to this law, have the same attitude. So we won't support him. I'm going to repeat a few specific arguments from previous discussions, although essentially this legal solution is a little bit more quality than we had before, especially when the question is defining the position and role of the Central Bank. We continue to think that there is no need to change the existing legal solution and that it is far more quality than this solution, because in some ways we are opening a space here for the unhappiness of those who are responsible for the adoption of the budget, means the Presidency as a proposing body and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I think that if we respect the existing legal solution as we have done now by adopting the budget for 2013, then we do not need such an alternative through this legal solution at all. So we need to be active in the work, we need to bring Budget in time, then we won't need certain exit variations so we can service the external debt, because... and this legal solution is directed in that direction. And what is still important here, here's my predecessors pointed it out, I'm just going to add a few sentences right now. So, the role of the Council of Ministers in temporary financing means that it can introduce certain items of expenditure that were not planned in the previous budget, and certainly that, and I think that this derogation of the constitutional solution should be disputed for all, and that is that we must have the Budget by 31.12 of the current year. And I don't think it was necessary at all, although here we have the Deputy Minister's argument that it is the IMF's insistence that it be March 31st of the current year for which the budget is brought. However, the Constitution, the IMF's position is the IMF's position and we in the Parliamentary Assembly should respect what the Constitution tells us rather than what those who are interested in their specific legal solutions tell us. Here again I repeat we will not support this legal solution at the SDA Club with an explanation that we have a better quality in application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13307	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Domazet. Here you go. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to wish you all a happy New Year's Eve and the successful work of this House this year. When it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions, I would refer to Article 11 as talking about the temporary financing that it says – that if the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH does not adopt the Law on Budget before the start of the fiscal year, funding will be temporary until the entry into force of the law. So we have very clear provisions, both in the Constitution and in the Law on the financing of BiH institutions, on what is temporary financing. I believe that our key efforts need to be taken to make temporary funding as little as possible, that is, to make it an exception. We at the SDP, at the SDP Club, estimate that this Law is significantly improved in its current form, that it represents a well-balanced structure that meets IMF requirements, that is, the obligations we have made in connection with the stand-by arrangement, and at the same time we need it for our, in order to achieve our efficiency, above all in the service of external debt. And in that sense, we support the principles of the Law. What is quite confusing so far in this bill is the mention of this deadline from March 31st as the deadline for the adoption of the Budget Law of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations. It seems that March 31st was accidentally introduced into the Finance Act, in Article 11(6), which states that Budget must be adopted by 31 March each year at the latest. Obviously, it is a one-off deadline, a transitional deadline that has now been declared and affirmed as the deadline for adoption of the budget. I think this needs to be removed and it is necessary to clearly affirm that in the current fiscal year it is necessary to adopt the budget for the following year. And that's the principle, and the constitutional principle, the principle that's in the Law on the financing of institutions, and we need to re-affirm it with these changes. In this sense, therefore, a space for a certain amendment action is being opened and there will likely be some interventions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13309	Thank you. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13310	Mr. Chairman. I have to say that SDA's position has been expressed by fellow Sokolović, but I have to repeat some things that we in the original version of this law have made a series of remarks that are partly, here and respected, especially in the payment of ino-long where, I don't think it is, if it's in line with the Central Bank that there is no violation of the Central Bank Act and that otherwise this is settled. And although we will not support this legislative solution, I think it is a good introduction of the principle of responsibility and that the proposer has taken a good look here and that this should be a practice for not implementing certain legal solutions by introducing a system of responsibility. What we are not satisfied with, we are not satisfied because we believe that this Law should not have been reached at all because the existing legal solution provided a certain space and quality solution and therefore 24 we believe that it should not have been treated at all, although we always meet IMF requirements when we need the IMF in certain things. Here in these members, in attitude (5), we have a series of traps. For example, the position (5) is changed and it is said that – during the duration of the provisional financing of the Council of Ministers, a special decision on expenditures not foreseen by the budget of the previous year can be made. This may, I think, if, because I know, why are we now discussing because we know that you have a parliamentary majority, we are still the opposition, we must make some contribution. This can, very dangerously, mean it can become a constant practice. Not to mention the fact that the decision on temporary financing is also a little reduced, but it was mostly referred to by us that this law introduces the decision on temporary financing to become a permanent practice in at least this Council of Ministers' summonment. And in attitude (6), especially this word, he says – unless the budget is adopted by 31. Marta, and I agree with the professor that this law is so very dangerous, only the current expenditure necessary for the functioning of BiH institutions will be realized on which the BiH Council of Ministers makes the necessary decision. Bog forbid someone here doesn't like BiH, so make a majority and they'll never adopt the budget. Is this the only thing we'll always have in the country is funding wages, material costs and everything else, and we'll never have capital investments? And I mean one danger, so I'd like the Ministry of Finance to explain this matter to us, this dilemma, because we're aware of the parliamentary majority and that they can vote this out. So the U.S.A. won't support this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13311	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13312	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the honourable members of the Council of Ministers and all the others present, here I join the well-wished wishes of the performing year. And when it comes to this law, I must say that this first article means the first article of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, Article 1 that it is essentially problematic. In the present Article 11, which is essentially amended by this Article, to which this Article is intervened, the most controversial and inconclusive provision (6), which states that the budget must be adopted by 31.03. ...the calendar years and the sea, and we saw that you didn't have to. Therefore, a provision that is inconclusive, not to say some harsh provision,... needs to be deleted. And the other problem that arises in the solutions offered in this law which are based on this solution, which I find illogical, is the fact that they are introduced, I would say, two different terms for the same thing, means temporary financing – temporary funding. When there is no budget then it is temporary financing, so says the Constitution and so says our political and legislative practice. As long as it can take a temporary funding thing, here's to say eventually by law, although I say again, I'm about to limit it even and say that temporary funding can take time, but the question is, what next, because the Constitution says that temporary funding is all the way until the budget is passed. And I'm not up for it, so the budget deadlines go beyond the end of the previous calendar year for the next financial year. In other words, I am not in favour of any deadline for, if prescribed by law, being behind 31.12. of the current year for the next financial year. So there is no need or justification that, in the meantime, I have seen from the Commission a little bit of the Constitution, that this provision stands, there is no need to introduce a special provision on current funding, because it is temporary, if you have given a definition of 25 temporary financing then stick to that definition in all situations where there is a time of temporary financing. A provision that defines the service of external debt I think is correct although it itself opens up a whole series of other issues – what is the top priority of this country, how much we are..., how much we have an impact on the creation of our budget policies, because our first priority is to pay us back our external debt even if we all die in this country, according to this law. Well, that's the subject for some future time, but here's the deal. And I'd like, perhaps, best be,...you from the ministry announced that you would have some of your amendments, which I haven't seen before, that during the period until the second reading, you would try to remove your interventions, these, I would say, and the shortcomings in the amendment and addition of the Law so that we could give support to this Law until the next reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13313	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13314	I thank the chairman. Well, you see, I'll make sure that, here we discuss the law, the bill in the first reading, so the principles of the law. When we talk about principles, let me start by looking at some of the previous discussions, especially fellow Vrankić, who mentioned that there should be no reference here to the commitments to the International Monetary Fund because the IMF certainly did not condition this content of the law. So, if it was possibly an obligation from a letter of intent, which the BiH authorities referred to as a condition for obtaining a stand-by arrangement, to regulate the payment of the external debt certainly was not an obligation, or did not condition the IMF to do so in this way. Secondly, I listened with attention to my fellow Domazet, calculating that he would use the language of the profession as he used it in his arguments but had just made arguments against the adoption of this law and not to support such a law in his first reading. Because what exactly is the essence of this law? First, this Parliamentary Assembly every year, and sometimes twice in one year, sometimes in violation of the laws and, not to mention both the Constitution and so on, was very difficult to adopt the Budget for the financing of institutions and the fulfillment of international obligations, very difficult. If this law passes in such a form or similar form, you should count on an even more difficult procedure and achieve agreement for the adoption of the budget. The weather, therefore, makes the law a much more comfortable position. And secondly, the message of this law is that whatever budget we make or don't bring, so on the basis of temporary funding, external debt will be paid off, which is good, and we need to pay the external debt priority, but what is done inside between institutions, or how funding is done, which is given priority and so on. I think that here inefficientness is rewarded by such a law and another creates space for even more manipulation, even more adventurous spirit travel and even harder adoption of the budget in the coming period. What do I want to mention? Of course, here is what counterpart Belkić said we will not possibly support such a law, but that some law should be passed, that is, amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of institutions should be passed. Well, I suggest we bring them into the spirit of what shakes the world economy and what is being followed with attention by economists and economic analysts these days, which is this financial 26-clip or break-in that threatened the American economy. Let's bring something into the spirit of this, that if we don't bring the budget to 31.12. that automation will take effect drastically cutting public spending, automatically increasing VAT rates and so forth. And, of course, automation about paying off foreign debt. So let's see how the institutions and the Council of Ministers, of course, this Parliamentary Assembly and the Presidency as an official proposing, which is not in these amendments, will refer to commitments when it comes to the adoption of the budget, or whatever the budget involves, which is the primary repayment of the external debt. So, colleagues and colleagues, I think in the amendment phase, this law, or the spirit of this law, cannot be fixed in the way that the arguments are made here. I think it would be much better to get a new bill, of course, all with this goal, which was both a priority goal and a proposal for this law, which is to make it a priority to pay off the external debt. And instead of forcing institutions to be more efficient in fulfilling their obligations, which is part of a credit rating, which is also the adoption of the budget in accordance with the law and the Constitution that define it, we, by this law, make these proposed solutions a much easier atmosphere and make the system even more inefficient. I call on you to focus on content and substance, that is, the goal that needs to be achieved. And it seems to me, don't have an illusion, I'm convinced that in the amendment phase this can't be fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13315	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency – Proposers: Dušanka Majkić, Beriz Belkić and Niko Lozančić (first reading) In the year 10.12.2012, the Proposers referred this proposal to the procedure with a request for consideration under the shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. At the 39th session of the House, held on 18.12.2012, a request for a shortened procedure was accepted. The relevant Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis and principles in 28.12.2012. I'm opening a debate. The debate was first reported by distinguished MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13317	Well, I answered first because Mrs. Majkić, as president of this commission, is currently missing. It is, therefore, a proposal drawn up by this Commission to select and monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency in order to specify the position of this Commission and put it in a position of similar committees. So the law had that kind of failure. Of course, in the procedure, as is usually the case, you have also seen with this Law on 27 amendments to the Funding Act, the event is expanding and the amendments, i.e. the proposed amendments and additions, have also been related to other matters when it comes to the competence of the Commission and when it comes to certain specific tasks proposed by the Commission. In the meantime, therefore, the whole Commission stood by unanimously, in the meantime we received a letter from the EU asking us to slow down, so to speak, the procedure to give time to declare the competent EU institutions that are interested in this Law, because to remind you this law was one of the conditions for the liberalisation of the visa regime. The truths for the will of the relevant EU representatives were present at the Commission's meetings when these amendments and additions were discussed, however, they failed to specifically declare the proposed amendments and additions. As legislators, of course, and commission, the Constitutional Commission will probably speak of it more, we are absolutely in agreement, so that after the first reading, of course, if these changes and additions get your support, that, I say, the second reading is in line with the time needed to get these possible suggestions, that is, to get a position on the proposed changes of the EU, which, of course, is not binding for us, but I think it is because it is, I say, about a law that was one of the conditions for visa liberalisation. Here, I just needed a few introductory notes and clarifications to make it clear to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13318	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13319	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. As my esteemed colleague, Beriz Belkić, said in his discussion, I would only like to get ahead of myself, so I should continue to give where he left off with his discussion and say this is the law most directly concerning the European path of BiH and a law that cannot be passed without proper communication with the relevant EU bodies, i.e. the European Commission. The letter has arrived, two letters have arrived. The last letter came to the College in which he prayed to wait for the procedure for the adoption of this Law until comments on the Law arrived from Brussels. At a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, as is visible from the Report, we tried to stop with the procedure, to ask for an extension of the deadline so that the Law was not adopted on the Commission or in the first reading but it did not pass. Then the law is supported when the principles are at stake but is subsequently supported by the proposal to stop the House after the first reading until the European Commission's comments arrive. And I ask the House to, with a second reading, that, if this Law is adopted in the first reading, it will come to the conclusion that it will wait with the adoption procedure in the second reading because the business deadlines are very precise and we need a special conclusion until comments from Brussels arrive. So much for the formal legal aspect and the procedural aspect of the adoption of this law. What is essential and what I am now going to say as a representative is that we need a law that will clarify, above all, some things concerning the appointment of members of the Commission. You know that we are authentically interpreting, or later on, the House has resolved this matter with its activity and said that Members of Parliament may be members of this Commission but only those who are active members of Parliament and 28 that the term of office of Members of Parliament in the Commission for the monitoring of the work of this Agency and the appointment, so it is called, are only active Members of Parliament and that this takes place from the beginning until the end of the term of office of Members of Parliament, and the other members – experts are given a term of four years. We solved it, but here's what needs to be done with the law. This is the key reason why it has entered into this Law, to amend and supplement this Law, but there have been some things that neither of us, the right to tell you, are not clear to the end, I don't know why it was necessary for the Commission to propose some solutions that could be problematic, I'm not saying that they are, but I can be problematic when it comes to the independence of this Agency. What will be the solution in the Law which deletes the explicit provision that the Monitoring Commission cannot seek a report in any particular case. There is a request to delete that provision, and it immediately causes certain thinking not to say doubt. I think that... there should be a provision that the Commission cannot require a report on specific cases of corruption, and that the norm should remain in the law, that it should not be deleted. I don't think this can be the Agency's Labour Monitoring Commission, but just for monitoring and appointing, as it says here, because if it's for surveillance again it's an impact on the work of this Agency. I don't think the Commission should get, that the Agency is obliged to submit to the Komisji the reports adopted by the Commission, the Commission is receiving a report as indicated. All these are the words that are good vaginas when the original text of the Law is written and that should be taken into account when the independence of this Agency is concerned. A particular problem is the position of the Commission. I have a feeling that this Commission, which proposes to be called the Supervisory Commission and to appoint, rather than to monitor work and appoint, is being identified as a special parliamentary body. We need to talk about it here. I don't think she can be a special parliamentary body without amending her Rules of Procedure. What is prescribed to her is something special, it is the Commission that reports to Parliament, or to its appropriate body. And she exists because of it, not that the Agency, as a parliamentary part, submits a report to her so that... That's what I was talking about last time at Home. All of these, therefore, are issues that must be clarified in order to enter into the adoption of this Law. And I ask, therefore, the College to put this thing to a vote, and the House to approve this exception, that there is no procedure in the second reading until the comments from Brussels arrive. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13320	I thank Mr. Džaferović. The word has an MP, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13321	Thank you. Similarly to this proposal on parliamentary surveillance in the field of defence and security, it is similar to my suggestion to the legislators of this law, to amend and supplement, is that the composition of three representatives from the House of Peoples, perhaps to say that there should be half of the opposition half of the opposition, so my proposal, and I think that in this way would be more justly supervised. Because I agree, or it's impossible, no one is independent and should not be independent, it's just a matter of transparency and professionality of the work of the institution, and no one has to be independent. And 29 independence, and transparency, and professionalism, I think it will improve if we have one and the other balanced side of Parliament for this Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13322	Thank you. The word has the vice-chair of the House of Representatives, Dr Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13323	Thank you. Dear Deputy Chairman, ministers, colleagues and fellow Members. Just for a little while. If he allows his respected colleague, Džaferović, I would rephrase his request, and I will explain why. It should be adopted in the first reading of this Law and then open a public debate. We can, through Article 114, ask that our citizens in BiH, too, by means of a public debate that the Commission... should determine which one does this, give an opinion on all of this, because we are making the fight against corruption and crime more transparent in BiH, we are also giving opportunity to citizens, except for the institutions from which we are waiting for their remarks on this Law, the possibility that they too will say what they think about it. Because I think this is an important topic that everyone needs, and we as Parliament are going to allow everyone to give their opinion on it. So my proposal is to go to the adoption of the first reading, to then... a proposal to open a public debate and thus get 15 days until the amendments to this Act are submitted and until the institutions you mentioned are declared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13324	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13325	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, as has already been said, you have before you a proposal to amend and supplement a law that was necessary from a set of laws to be adopted in order to liberalise the visa regime of BiH citizens. We have amendments to the law and I don't think that many in this country have yet to understand the essence of this Law, haven't understood the essence of this Agency, which was established by law, or the role of this Commission, so far under the applicable law, for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work and, from that, it seems to me, many misunderstandings. Deleting the provision, among other things, that the members of the Commission, or the Commission, do not have the right to seek individual cases, may have been necessary, may not have been necessary. This Agency is not a repressive agency, this Agency is not concerned with detecting cases of concrete cases. This Agency, and neither does this Commission have specific cases, so nothing can be asked for when they are not present. It seems sad to me, and that's what everyone should be dealing with, that this agency doesn't work very well, so the good part doesn't work exactly because of the lack of understanding of its role set up in the way it's set up by this law. I repeat again and it would be good, what is a colleague of Živković, so if 30 nothing can be discussed through a public debate, what is this Agency. What's that? Is that some kind of Bosnian Herzegovina jump? Under this law, it's not that. You need to make it clear to people this isn't any research agency. This is the Agency, which should, using all available information and experience, monitor the forms of corruption, monitor and suggest systematic measures for both us and the Council of Ministers and all others to address corruption issues effectively, each in its own part-round. This is the Agency that should coordinate all bodies, all bodies mean, both legislative and executive, especially those that are, but not operationally, as some think. It will not coordinate the SIPA, nor the OSA, nor the DGS, it is not its role, but co-ordinated in terms of joint activities in order to... measures to make it better, to strengthen prevention – yes. And I think I'm a choice and a follow-up maybe it is enough, but I think from past experiences, it means from past experiences so-called. Independence, I'm going to say so-called, there's no need to get involved here in addiction, in the independence of this agency. We are all interested in her doing, but unfortunately something in the system is wrong, and we have learned ourselves that we have not even defined how to choose, how long the mandate of the members of the Commission and so on, and so on, and so on, and not that we have others now. We today have, two, three years since the adoption of this Act, not a full agency at all, not in that original sense. So we have a director and two deputies and a point, so we have nothing further. So, if we really want this Agency to work in the sense that it's meant for this law, if we're going to change the whole concept, that's for sure, and that's a question for a possible public debate. But these issues, these amendments and additions, I am convinced, do not affect the independence of the Agency's work, remove certain shortcomings, certain doubts, define a more precise and method of choice and the duration of the mandate of the members of the Committee, both those from Parliament and those outside Parliament. And I don't really see any reason why we wouldn't support this law today in our first reading. I think the idea of organising a public debate is a good idea, because this is the topic to which all the public should be involved, and I don't think that some of the provisions that are proposed must remain, and here's the type of ones that are left out because I don't think they're going to have a positive or negative impact on the functioning of either this Commission or this Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13326	Thank you. Replica, MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13327	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I was very careful in the discussion I was going to use, so I was going to say as precise terms as possible. I have nothing against public debate, but you know what the essence of the original, dark text of the law is, how difficult we are or how difficult we have come to that law in the past. If it were actually a minimum at which the Agency was established, it should have been something much stronger in my opinion, but such a level of political consent at that time was in BiH and it was established. So what problems were and what time was spent until the appointment of responsible people was carried out. And that is why I think that, because in my opinion, the amendments and the amendments to the Law are in some way touching that minimum where the Agency is established, it is necessary to wait for comments from Brussels, and after that we can, if we want to, behold, I will very much agree to talk about 31 much stronger, stronger, more efficient agency, to open a public debate, I think that the public debate will show nothing more than that BiH needs one such agency. But let's wait first for these commentaries to see, because these are changes and additions to the existing law, and the discussions are actually about the solution and the laws that concern the concept itself. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13328	Thank you. Dr Milorad Živković, the deputy chairman, applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13329	Thank you. I also think that this topic is not sufficiently familiar with the BiH citizens, nor is the professional public who daily informs us about it through written, electronic, printed media, that we should open this as a matter in BiH and bring the Agency closer to what it can and what it cannot discuss and work about. There would be nothing wrong with getting the opinion of the European Commission in these 15 days and also discussing it at these public debates, and we can only change what the Commission has stated in its members that it wants to change. We can't change the whole law. After all this, we can drop this law so that another draft of harmonised laws can come in and respect the public debates, the European Commission's remarks and all those who want to discuss it here in BiH. That is why I think it is a good way to open a public debate, to discuss it, there is enough 15 days for all those who want to get involved in this public debate to get involved and quality and that we can only change those members that the Commission has already treated with its proposal to amend and supplement the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13330	Thank you. Ambassador Drago Kalabić signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13331	Thank you. Well, I'm just joining those who think this thing shouldn't break over your knee. There's a lot of things here to clear up. I'm not even sure about that, but I'm not opening that discussion right now, whether things are set right at the very beginning, but we're right where we are. And here we now have often our problem when we're picking up certain requirements from Brussels automatically with one goal to send a signal that we've fulfilled something, something we've done, not watching enough of how it's essentially going to work. And this is now an example of that fact when something is inserted into this space and into this system which, the question is now what would look different, and should certainly be different, this is not well-set. This is not well set up, and it would probably be a good public debate in which it should prove that things need to be changed and set differently when it comes to the area itself. And that's why I'm joining this request. There's a lot of dilemma. We also have a dilemma in Parliament about the position of the commission. Is that a permanent commission, is that the Ad hoc commission? Here I expected Mr Belkić to explain this position, in Article 5(4), that 32 funds for the work and compensation of the commission members would be provided in the Budget of the Parliamentary Assembly. What does that mean, in what way, because people ask that? I think Brussels probably doesn't take care of it, and they don't care about it, and then when we adopt it, they'll give a warrant to one of their reporters to stick us on the first minute of the diary that that's what we did, we did it and so on. So these are all the things that say that this is what it's all about, because I'm saying for reasons because this Commission has been working for four years. And I think, if it is necessary to change the Rules of Procedure what is the problem of changing it and adapting that it has a normal position, which is what Brussels did not think about in that request that the Commission's position would appear in correlation with other parliamentary bodies and its position. I know it might not have worked out right now, but here's the chance, I don't know why we're in such a hurry and answer all these questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13332	Replica, MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13333	In fact, it's not a classic replica, it's an attempt to find the best solution in which we move on. I, indeed, as one of the promoters, had certain reserves according to some solutions that went beyond the scope of what it was intended to be, so to specify the position of the Commission and so on, especially when it comes to these individual items, because I didn't even understand that the Agency had any specific items at all, but simply dealt with what it said in the title itself. It seems to me that the most convenient solution would be the following – to separate these changes and supplement them into two groups. So, a group on the Commission, respecting what Drago is talking about, I completely understand, and to adopt today's Law in first reading, to go with amendments that would eliminate everything that is not about the Commission and possibly clear up what is still unclear about the Commission. And this second part, this second part, we can, what Milorad was talking about, we can open up as changes and complements and conduct a public debate and get to know the public of the law as a whole and so on, and these suggestions that we have. As for Brisel, which is the EU, any change to any law that has been a condition for visa liberalisation and even one point, they will show interest. So the fact that something is changing, they're showing interest and they're looking for insight. So, perhaps we should do this the following way, today we should go with this first reading, if of course you agree, and then we should amend these amendments and supplement from all other matters other than those concerning the Commission's status, including clarifying this Commission status, including what drago was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13334	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Replica, Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13335	Well, it's not a replica. It's more of an agreement with the fact. I didn't get an explanation that there was something urgent here, and I didn't understand from anyone that something should be done here. There's probably no particular reason, so I say once again you need to take enough time. And to be honest, I like this position that I'm asking questions and that Mr. Belkić is a pronoun and he's defending it, and that's 33 good phenomena. Is it going from 6 to 7, or is it, we've kind of enjoyed this role so I think it's nice to me today, and if it's an announcement of something new, I support it, and if it's New Year's let something grow so dark and six grow in this year.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13336	At this point, this is the last reported Member of Parliament. The word is Mr. Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13337	The Honorable Chairman. It's very short. We have here this law in question, amendments and additions, but whatever we do, no member has been defined. The people watch the display of that up at Robna's house as corruption changes in seconds and I don't know how it grows either. It is rare in Parliament that a previous discussion by a colleague supports, and here I am now doing so. In this way, I support Mr. Živković's proposal, I support Mr. Lozančić's proposal, I support the replicas of the esteemed counterpart Kalabić, I support Mr. Belkić's proposal, I support all those who spoke about this subject, and what will we lose if we open a public debate? At least bring those who, as we speak today, are already preparing a statement that corruption here has eaten a billion for the past year, and those NGOs. Someone has asked a parliamentary question, it needs to be asked all the time, who gives money to these NGOs, how they finance themselves, they have had that corruption, whose interests they work for? We cannot put in the law of amendment and supplementation or in the jurisdiction of this Commission, but at least give time and opportunity to those greatest clumps, which are sometimes justified. But I don't know how fast those numbers fly. That's impossible, that man can't keep an eye on how he's changing. Stop for once, people, and look at that. You won't remember a single number that you've been standing for an hour, because all the numbers will fly away that are possible in mathematics, which Ajnštajn didn't come up with either. So when they set you up, give them a chance to respond to a public debate and I'll just ask, who set it up like that, at least, to change it at that speed. So where did they find it? Of course, I'll hear my colleague behind my back, give him a painful Slavo, it's a demagogy. That demagogy is killing us and saying we're responsible. And whatever I say, you don't have to appreciate anything, so it's been going on here for years, but at least I don't want to be responsible, and I don't want you to be responsible either. Well, then, this is the only commission that has jurisdiction over how long her term of office is. It's not a rematch now, I volunteered to work on this committee to question those donations there and it's free of charge. I ask the question whether this Commission is paid for 4 years, in addition to the obligation to be members of Parliament, members who receive regular receipts whether they also receive fees, because it is not Ad hoc, it is 4 years of additional income. And this agency has one year to report to her, so in a year, whether these guys are gonna be able to see it or not, because they don't have a chance to go down there to control them. Well, we heard they're only working three, director and two deputies. So now that we're multiplying it all, I'm ending up with that good idea of predecessors, let's open up the debate and let's see what's really possible for this country to at least decrease by a minimum percentage of this corruption and that those numbers go worse, they'll never stop, of course, but at least I can track them to see how they change, how it goes, and not so lightning. It's faster to land that universe... than those numbers out there can be seen and let's open that debate. Thank you very much. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13338	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13339	I just wanted to talk to you for a second. This provision also applies to the amount of compensation appropriations. Namely, what have I seen in this House? There is a pay gap between us somewhere up to 2,000 marks. That's the gentlemen who follow those situations, that's how it is. It seems to me that right through these committees various things are multiplying that salary and it would be good to consider whether it's useful, therefore for several reasons. Secondly, I would like to say for Article 17b), I have noticed that this is repeated when the materials are written in Cyrillic, and Latin expressions go in Latin and we accept it and we write it like that, that we do not show any ignorance. Article 17c) - a member of the Commission may be relieved of his duties, and then tax cases are listed. In working practice, the following is to write down, because it is almost impossible to list all cases when it can stop, when it is necessary to resolve duties. It is then said in other cases established by law, so it should be added. It's so-called. A back-up clause right that is often, taxingly listed. That's what I wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13340	I thank Ambassador Petar Kunić. I'm closing the debate on the seventh agenda. We're moving to the eighth item of the agenda, Ad. 8. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to Reach Consent on Amendment Law Proposal and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) There's no discussion here. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on BiH High Court and Prosecutorial Council 2011 Annual Report, High Court and Prosecutorial Council material
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13344	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Just for a little while, I mean we can't just say nothing on such an important subject. The Joint Defence and Security Commission has detailedly analysed this decision. The BiH defence minister was present. The commission, therefore, is as aware as the BiH Ministry and Presidency, is that this is a mission that is in relation to previous missions with the highest degree of risk. The BiH Ministry of Defence has been asked to monitor, so every detail related to this mission. BiH is a country that has so far received international assistance both military and civilian, BiH is now a country that provides assistance in stabilising peace and opportunities in the world. The Commission has also supported this decision and is proposing to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to confirm this decision by the BiH Presidency. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13345	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda, Ad. 11. The appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, the ranking of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13347	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. Here, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDA, I have proposed one conclusion, in fact, that this procedure of selecting the appointment of directors and deputies be postponed or a statement of the election by 36 next time, and that the College prepares ethnic representation in all positions, i.e. in all BiH institutions, because it is obviously in which direction this is going and I think there will be a disturbance already, but here, we would make another major contribution to the violation of the ethnic representation of the constituent peoples and others in key positions in BiH institutions. Therefore, here I am asking you to respect this conclusion of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13348	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13349	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. A competition for the position of directors and deputy directors took place with five candidates, one of whom gave up during the procedure and four other candidates remained in the procedure. So, I will orderly as stated here in the reports Munib Isaković, Petar Kovačević, Muhamed Mujakić and Vlado Rogić. It is said that the final ranking for the director is Petar Kovačević 98 points, Vlado Rogić 85, Munib Isaković 66, Muhamed Mujakić 65 points, and then that is the order, right, for the director. And when it comes to deputy director, the final list is Vlado Rogić 92 points, Petar Kovačević 91 points, Muhamed Mujakić 68 points and Munib Isaković 65 points. It is said in the introductory part of the material prepared by the Commission that the Commission is in accordance with Article 13. The Rules of Procedure formed a form-table for the evaluation of each candidate for both positions, directors and deputy director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in BiH, which is filled in by the present members of the Commission. The number of points received by each candidate is the amount of the estimates collected by each interview of the present Member of the Commission divided by the number of interviews of the present members of the Commission. We here, and the members of the Commission were, on behalf of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Darko Babalj, Anto Domazet and Nermin Purić, and in front of the House of the Peoples Halid Genjac, Borjana Krišto and Dragutin Rodić. In addition to the reason that Mr Mehmedović cited for delaying the statement on this subject, because this is a fact that must be taken into account about proportionate ethnic representation at the level of BiH institutions, and without it, so it is not possible to execute this appointment, we think that this structure is damaged but we are looking for data, I think another detail needs to be clarified, to see how these commissions we appoint work. We don't have here in table materials for every member of the Commission to evaluate each of the candidates. I am afraid that there is very little in that assessment of what is called an objective criterion and that the matter is fully subjective and related to the party and ethnicity of the members of the Commission. I'm afraid so. If that's the case, it's a disaster. And I ask that the table be delivered exactly how a member of the Commission has assessed which candidate, because it seems to be the only points that have affected this order. The qualification order of candidates cannot be established solely on the basis of a subjective assessment of the members of the Commission. There must be objective criteria. If that's the case, then we don't need commissions at all, then we can do it here in Parliament. And that's why I'm asking that, before we get in a position to make this decision, you deliver a list, because this becomes a problem, you're creating unprincipled alliances. I've seen them already in a few cases, and this is a case that's ecotistic, so, when it comes to these things. That's it, thank you. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13350	Thank you. Dear Representative Darko Babalj, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13351	Thank you. Here's to wishing 2013 a more successful year than in 2012 for all my colleagues and colleagues, of course, I apologize. As president of this Commission, I can only say that everything was in line with the law and that we here in the Commission had no problems, even here to say that Mr. Genjac was a member of this Commission and not once, so there was no problem with what Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Mehmedović were saying. So everything was in accordance with the law and that's how we suggested it. What is very interesting, and here are the discussions of Mr Mehmedović and Mr Džaferović. The first discussion, so far as I know, I have information that Mr. Petar Kovačević has been the director and the previous four years, and so that principle has not been violated by what you are talking about. Secondly, as far as these things are concerned, we all know how these commissions work and we know that what you said is not the main problem of BiH at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13352	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13353	Although it's clear that it may not have been necessary to replicate, but it's awkward and it's silent because the SDA has been doing it lately, as it would say, organised, it's no longer an incident situation, or organised, as it says. As soon as there's a chance or a Srbin prays that he can sit somewhere in Sarajevo, the process stops immediately. Every time there's a wheel, there's a light going off. And you had the last 50 appointments last year for the Bošnjak and you could have stopped there and said, "Let's see how it stands." You could've been on this former RAC director, who's been since '64. The year director, you could've stopped at it, so you could've said let's see if he's been Bošnjak in that seat for 50 years. The second thing, you took it to the man you set up last time with us and where there was an objective approach of the people of the SDA and the first... Very objective. And what Mr. Džaferović is saying, when you convince Mr. Genjac I will believe him and I will act like one. Because Mr. Genjac, since I've known him here, has been speaking ethnically, ethnically, and then 17 steps possibly in some fog, some little townie out there. And I don't blame him. All we can see for ourselves is that we're voting like that. There's no third. But I don't know what's going on when we've been in this one 1,170 times like this. And I don't see any reason why now, all of a sudden, no commission has, as far as I know, delivered its material here. We trust our committees until the moment the board members say that something out there was problematic. But if they're, as far as I can tell, now is that 38 she's the famous two currents, so she's a Genjac in the other one, these are in the third, so what does the left know if the right, now that's another problem. But I don't think it's correct for our commissions, not going in general where there are secretaries, there's records, there's material available, these people are doing their job, anyone who has a serious procedural remark. I understood Mr. Babalj that everything was fine, that it was, because then it would go to another extreme, and I don't think we have any need or anyone to stop a serious remark about any commission's work, and she needs to be considered here. And with one move, you can handle it since I know most of them have been discussing human issues. If anyone lets you go back, here we stop, here you come back in six we'll have time to talk on this objective approach, as you say, in some future period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13354	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13355	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So let me get this straight. So this thing about Dr. Genjac. I talked to Dr. Genjac, I would like to ask about the people who are not here to refrain from commenting on their work, I spoke to Dr. Genjac when I received this material and Dr. Genjac informed me, told me in that conversation that he voted against, there is one person here who voted against. And so much for Dr. Genjac's role. I just wanted to say this thing. We don't need committees like this if we're going to do this, then it's better to make a political deal, so on the basis of a political agreement we do it, not under the commission's company to make some alliances. Because this is not an objective evaluation, this is a subjective assessment of the members of the Commission, and I have therefore asked to see how a member of the Commission scored a number of candidates. So that's the problem. I just want to get naked, get her back to the beginning. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13356	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13357	I appreciate that those who aren't here that we don't have to deal with it, but Mr. Genjac is here, he's a member of this commission, and he's the one who delivered the material we're discussing. His right to vote absolutely in the way he thinks it's best. But if anything was wrong, Mr. Genjac could use his right and let us know that that thing was wrong. Voting is one thing, and the other is a matter of procedure. By his vote, Mr. Genjac confirmed that the procedure was legal, legitimate, legal and normal. And that's why I've been commenting on Mr. Genjac, and I would very much respect his document on which he had the right to inform us that there was something wrong and we would have dealt with this document. The thing has to be okay, and I think it's okay. And what I'm interested in right now is, I'd like the SDA to perform a demonstration exercise on what an objective evaluation looks like? Here, let's see this demonstration exercise and see what it looks like in your direction objectively, who you've been in these 10 years, however objectively you judge, is the Bošnjak forward. Now don't judge objectively, and it's always been so, and in 1,100 cases, you're not the opposite, if it's objective. That's how it is. And I think you're the last to complain about this procedure. She may be disputable in the setting itself, but she's legal, legitimate, and she's respected. It is not my place to speak on behalf of the members of the Commission, but this applies to all MPs who are members of various committees whose work you can question in this way. I think it's something that's wrong. So why are we choosing a board member rather than a grader? So if they're going to evaluate by my order, then I'm going to go to that commission. He assesses, he makes an assessment based on the necessary documents he has before him and the powers he has received to carry out such an assessment. And again I say, I don't think it's right that, we'll meet up with it in the next period, and it's not okay to set things up that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13358	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, vice-president, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13359	It's a replica, here, and I'll say a few words about the conclusion that came from the SDA. In fact, it is impossible to respect this conclusion for several reasons. Nothing would happen if the College prepared that material, it's very difficult and prepared that material you all know and nothing would happen if that material came to you to vote again on this ranking list. This is a done deal. For a year and a half, I've been looking for a list of all the staff in the institutions for a year and a half. And you've been given a list of everyone who's employed by both the directors and the deputies and all the employees. Right? With a national structure. Right now, I've had the secretary working for three months to make all the lists, all the institutions and all the rest to be presented, so I'm going to share with you MPs and that kind of material. So it's impossible to present him or give him insight at the moment. Second thing, it's a matter of political agreement. You know that well, you were with us in power, in the previous term we agreed on it together. Third thing, members of the presidency, right, they have a mandate, never talk about what they're doing there. We'll get here, hopefully this month, a list of promotions in the army to the generals. So you'll get a list of the people your Bureau member suggested. So we'll see if anyone's finished military school. Would you like to open up the issue of advances in the army, would you like to open the issue of national structures, to open up the issue of expertise and everything else? I'm in the mood to open up and then that question, if you're in the mood, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13360	Thank you. 40 Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13361	Well, Your Honor, I would support this proposal by Mr. Džaferović if it had any meaning and effect. So we choose a commission that chooses, suggests and if we get all these lists and we get the exact score of every member of the commission, so we have brothers here to choose a number where we chose the 15th candidate, who took that list, the 15th was our choice. The fourth one was my choice, the seventh one was my choice, rarely when the first one was chosen. Exactly what Mr. Kalabić and Mr. Živković were talking about, which is what he just said, so it's a matter of political agreements to whom what belongs. And it seems to me that in 2007, I was just looking for the national structure of all the employees in these institutions that we're choosing something. All that would be fine, the commission needs to be confessed, she does it, but it's all in Parliament. I remember the rare occasions where we supported our members in committees who were having talks, points, I don't know, by various criteria, came up with a proposal, a little whispered to me, says whose interest this is, uh, this fifteenth to pass, he goes by, and these first 14 have had better results, someone rated them there, gave them, whether it was subjective, objectively, they're not important, this fifteenth is important, someone said. We have to open the cards once and for all and tell us what this is all about. So, if it's interest to take that position someone, what Kalabić said, from... there were no agencies then, is it well, hi well, of whatever time, whenever an agency falls to one's mind, it's important first that it goes according to the national structure, and then which is the parliamentary majority to put up its candidate, so if it's a city and an area so let it cover itself up a little bit, so give this, give it that. But we humans have come into a position that we have and that we have taken on a huge responsibility, as we have chosen someone. I've never heard of a single candidate, and every time I push a button someone told me, this one should because it's someone's attitude. Someone's. Well, it's known whose political agreement is that, and we come into a position right now and I'm really asking, Mr. Džaferović would ask him, what would I get besides countless materials, thousands of people who have taken me for granted, to get a list of how who rated who, that's what's important. It would be the same as if I asked the professor at college – what is rich to this candidate in front of giving him 6 and he knew about 9? So I graded, I gave him nine, and he gave him six, and his six is relevant. So, accordingly, what Parliament decides, the commission can deliver an extraordinary list of points, everything we do, but we here decide to go candidate number 12, and those forward 11 bye-bye, bye-bye.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13362	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13363	Two sentences. Maybe it's not a good way to write these reports, so here it turns out that Mr. Petar Kovačević had little knowledge of the answers to questions asked by the Commission for Deputy Director and knew about the director. Might change a little bit the form of this report. And in continuity he knew best this Munir Isaković he had only one voice worse, these... To get serious, maybe in a different way to write these reports, because it seems a little funny that man knew questions about the director, and he didn't know about, or otherwise Mr. Rogić didn't know about the director, he did for the deputy, maybe in that part, because of these generations that come, when they read not to be funny. Thank you. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13364	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 12.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13365	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13366	I'm sorry, I didn't see. Honorable representative Darko Babalj, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13367	Well, not to be inconclusive, so we're talking nice, it's not a big deal, and we all know how this works. It's done in a way for the commission to call the competition. Formal-legal conditions have satisfied these five candidates. So, formal legal conditions satisfied these five candidates, these five candidates who passed formal legal conditions believe that they were all quality. This rest means the impression they made on us in the Commission. And I don't see any big reason for any more debate. If we're talking about names, it's not right to talk about these names. So these are people who are all believe professional and quality and qualified for this job for whom they are appointed. These are now finesse, and what our colleagues have said, it is up to us to bring the court today whether it will be these first, second or third, the Commission has said what it meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13368	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to point 12, Ad. 12. Report by the College's Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of the European Partnership with BiH Nermina-2012, the material of the BiH Directorate for European Integration, which reads: "In the work plan of the Council of Ministers for 2013 in all ministries, it is mandatory to provide for a strategy for certain areas for which the ministries will apply for IPA 2014–2020." The College, as the Committee, did not agree on this proposal for a conclusion from the 39th session of the House, held on 18.12.2012. You got the report. There's no discussion about this point. Moving to point 13, 42 Ad. 13. Consideration of MP Dušanka Majkić's initiative, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH I refer to the parliamentary initiative for discussion at the House of Representatives' session on the topic: The effects of the destruction of ammunition and mine-explosive assets (MIMES) on the "Barbara" polygon by local population in the Municipality of Glamoc"
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13371	A few words just a respected chairman. Since the initiative has been unanimously adopted by the Joint Defence and Security Commission, I am obliged to give you a few words that are important to this. You've all got the initiative and you've seen what it contains, and what's the basic thing that stings eyes, and that requires even more seriousness in all of this. The BiH presidency made a decision in the fourth month of 2012 concerning the size, structure and location of the Armed Forces and declared the barracks Glamoc and ammunition storage and mine-explosive assets to an unspective facility. This is, therefore, the scheme where the Glamoch barracks are shown as unperspective means established this year. And the perspective has been declared a polygon where ammunition and mine-explosive means are being destroyed. These drawn, parts drawn on that site are private property, and what's white is the property of a local community. So what was owned by SSNO(?) And what they could use, they declared it unspective, and perspective water to what's other people's. And normally because more and more weapons are being destroyed than the regulation allows for an increasing number of citizens to address the commissioner and ask for measures to be taken, on several occasions, to improve the situation in the area. The head of the municipality sent to all who could contribute to improving this situation both the Ministry of Defence and the Joint Staff and the Operational Command, the Civil-military Co-operation Department and the Joint Defence and Security Commission warned them of what was going on. So, in order for us to be able to lead a quality discussion on this topic in this House, and given the large number of citizens who are exposed to direct dangers, they shoot at their walls, they cannot live, it is a question of the poisoning of the terrain in which this people live, it is a matter of seriousness and the need to share this in the House and make the right conclusions that will help the population of the Glamoch municipality live in a safe environment. I expect you to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13372	Thank you. Dear Representative Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo, debate. Here you go. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13373	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I fully support this initiative, Ms. Majkić, because it really is about the inconceivable consequences not only for the population, for their health, but for the overall environmental system that happens after these explosions that occur, means the destruction of ammunition and mine-explosive means. It is fully known how dangerous they are, so, matter from those that are... going into the free atmosphere, for human health, for animal health, means for the health of the entire ecological system. We know that, for example, in the EU, the preparations of lead tetraethyl and tetramethyl lead are like poisons, so, which affect both the nervous system and the blood system, that they are naturally expelled and that we have in the EU, to protect our population, means, unleaded gasoline. No Niko in our country takes care of such phenomena that are truly inconceivable. In our country, we often see this lead gas that we often use, is it still with us in our country, we often look to say by the roads of a certain orna, I don't know how to sow gardens and so on, it's unimaginable in Europe. People wonder when they see what we're doing, because it's known that lead as one poison passes into the earth, from the earth of course to the others, so living organisms, it pollutes the earth, pollutes plants, pollutes man at the end, and it's a very dangerous poison. As far as this initiative is concerned, I think we should all support it. This is one key issue, today it is a question in Glamoc, tomorrow it may be some other area in BiH, one means general pollution of the human environment and the danger of human health. This topic deserves a special session of the House of Representatives, and I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13374	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And before we move to item 14 I suggest that the House declare itself that the debate on points 14 to 21 of the agenda is united, as it is a matter of giving consent to ratifying the agreement. I'm putting this proposal on a plea. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 32 votes to, without, without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, we have declared that these points from 14 to 21 unite the debate. Ad. 14. - 21. – Giving consent The opinions of the Foreign Affairs Committee responsible have been given to you. I'm opening a debate. Since there are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. And at 1:00, I schedule a vote on today's agenda. 44 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13378	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13379	The college arranged for us to agree afterwards. So we're going to point 8. – Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find, with 25 votes in favour, 14 abstentions, but without, therefore, enough votes against was passed the Law in the first reading. Moving to point 9. – Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2011. We're voting in the second round on the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree, with 20 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 1 abstention and 14 votes against the RS entity, so this report has not been adopted, has not been accepted. 46 So we go to point 10. – Decision of the BiH Presidency on the participation of the BiH Armed Forces military police unit in the International Security Assistance Force operation to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. We are voting on confirming the decision with the opinion of the Committee and the conclusion contained in it. Do you need to read the conclusion? You don't have to. So, get ready to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 30 votes to, without votes against, with nine abstentions, with enough entity majority, we have confirmed the BiH Presidency's decision to take part in the BiH Armed Forces military police force operation in the International Security Assistance Force of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. Moving to point 11. – The appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the ranking of the Interim Joint Commission of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We have two conclusions here. First of all, we are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of a representative of the SDA Club. Prepare to vote Vote now I find that, with nine votes for, 27 against and 3 abstentions, this conclusion did not get the necessary majority. We are now moving to a statement on the conclusion of the SDP Representatives' Club, which reads: - A statement on the appointment of the director and deputy director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH is postponed until the next session. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 25 votes in favour of, 7 votes against, 7 abstentions, with enough entity majority, the conclusion of the SDP representative's club on the postponement of the plea. Moving to point 12. – Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of the European Partnership with BiH in Nermina-2012, the material of the BiH Directorate for European Integration, which reads: "In the work plan of the Council of Ministers for 2013 in all ministries, it is mandatory to provide for a strategy for certain areas for which the ministries will apply for IPA 2014–2020." We are voting in the second round on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović prepare for the vote. Vote now. I find that, with 22 votes against, nine votes against, eight abstentions, but without enough entity, or without enough votes against, this conclusion has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13380	Can we do it again? 47
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-03-0.u13381	So at the request of the president of the SNSD Club, the vote is repeated. Prepare to vote again. Vote now. I find that in a re-vote with 24 votes in favour, 10 votes against, 3 abstentions and 10 votes against the RS entity, this conclusion has not been adopted. Moving to point 13. – Considering the initiative of representative Dušanka Majkić, who reads: “In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I refer to the parliamentary initiative for discussion at the House of Representatives' session on the topic: The consequences of the destruction of ammunition and mine-explosive assets (MIMES) on the "Barbara" polygon by local population in the Municipality of Glamoc". We are voting on the adoption of the initiative of MP Dušanka Majkić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 38 votes for, without votes against, 1 abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, the initiative of MP Dušanka Majkić was adopted. Before I turn to the vote on the 14th item of the agenda, I would like first to put the proposal to the vote to declare the points 14 to 21 in the package. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 38 votes for, without votes against, one abstention, with enough entity majority we have decided to vote in the package. Now we move on to the statement on points 14-21. – Ratification of the agreement Prepare to vote. Vote now I konstatirati that, with 39 votes in favour, without votes against, without abstention, with enough entity majority, we have ratified agreements from 14th to 21. And before we conclude this session, ladies and gentlemen, I also want to congratulate the upcoming Christmas holidays of all Orthodox people in BiH, to spend them in their families, with their friends in the best possible way. I'm closing the 40th session of the House of Representatives. I note that the 41st session of the House of Representatives was planned for 31st memory 2013. Thank you for your cooperation, and I wish you a pleasant end of the week. Session completed at 13:30.
