ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18590	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, please take your seats, professional services as guests to also take their seats. Today we are continuing the 57th session of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was suspended on 20 November 2013. At the session ssu as usual our regular guests are invited. Representatives of the BiH Institutions Audit Office were also invited to attend the session, given that today's meetings and audit reports on the financial operations of BiH institutions for 2012. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence was justified by MPs: Božo Ljubić and Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, and Ismeta Dervoz's MP announced a delay. There are currently 26 MPs present, according to information from the Service. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. I would like to point out that today's session will discuss points that have not been discussed in the first part of the session, which are points 9 to 88 of the agenda. Before we move to point 9, I suggest we open a joint discussion of reports from point 9 to point 80. Please, let me get this straight. Prepare to vote. You're voting now. I realize that we have the necessary general majority, that we have both the entity majority and that we have accepted this conclusion to bring together the debate on reports from point 9 to point 80. I would also like to point out that yesterday I also had a conversation with the chief auditor, Mr. Milenko Šega, about his address at the session, or whether it should be before the debate on the reports is opened or after it is over. We agreed, however, that Mr. Šego still has the opportunity to turn to the session at the beginning and direct this debate and, of course, we will leave the possibility to address it at the end of the debate if there is any need for further clarifications and answers after the debate in the House. Ad. Nine. - 80. Reports by BiH Institutions Audit Office on Financial Business I must say that all the reports of the BiH Institutions Audit Office were delivered in time, and on 15.11.2013 you were also presented with the Commission's summary opinion on finance and the budget for these reports with Annexes 1, 2 and 3. 2 The order of consideration of the report has been determined in the opinion of the Commission. The four institutions were assessed in a positive opinion, and 58 institutions had a positive opinion with an emphasis on the case and they were processed in Appendix 1, and these are reports, therefore, from point 9 to point 70. Annex 2 shall consist of reports with an audit opinion with a reserve and an opinion with an emphasis on the subject, which shall be reports from point 71 to point 80. These reports have been specifically processed and the Commission has carried out a public statement by their representatives at its regular sessions, and has drawn up specific opinions on the reports. Annex 3 comprises the repeated qualification of the audit in the last three years for the following institutions: the BiH Ministry of Defence, the BiH Ministry of Human Rights, the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Directorate for indirect taxation of BiH and the BiH Presidency. The Commission proposed to the House and to adopt a total of 8 conclusions. I'm not going to read those conclusions now given that you've all got them on parliamentary benches. I'm opening a debate, so we're talking united agenda points. If it's all right with you, I'd like to give Mr. Šega my first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18592	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, I welcome you all together. And here, I would say at the beginning of the Audit Office, as every year, according to the Development Act, in accordance with the Law on the Financing of Institutions, the Budget Act, has drawn up reports on the audits carried out for 2012. You are aware that the Audit Office has an obligation, in accordance with the Audit Act, to audit all budgetary users, which has been done in accordance with our plan, and I am pleased to confirm that we have succeeded in carrying out this audit on time and within time limits and to submit all these reports to the parliamentary procedure. I would also like to express my satisfaction this time that the Parliamentary Assembly, or the Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly for Finance and Budget, has in time considered all these reports, made quite a number of quality conclusions, which are in line with our recommendations and findings, and here today we have an opportunity here at the House, to discuss, to clarify, to accept all these recommendations and findings that talk about failures, shortcomings, improvements, etc., in the 2012 revision. So there is a total of 74 budget users. Of these 74 budget users 73 are subject... to review, 74th Budgetary User is Office for Auditing, so. And we have a consolidated report on budget implementation as well on today's agenda. In this introductory part, given that the Finance and Budget Committee has worked out in detail, I would consider individual reports on the audits carried out, which during the hearing of those institutions, or representatives of those institutions that have qualifications or shortcomings and failures, or possible violations of the law in their business, I would today perhaps focus only on some segments, on some of the issues, i.e. the main findings and recommendations in the 2012 reports, which have been sublimed in a certain way and in the consolidated 2012 budget report. These findings and those recommendations we made on this basis are, I would say, systematic nature, and institutions individually observe these recommendations cannot implement. It is necessary, therefore, to assist the institution of the system, first of all, so that the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, the Parliamentary Assembly and other relevant institutions to which the agencies, the directorates, are likely to lean, so to speak, of the restoring ministries. 3 So these main findings and recommendations for 2012 could come down in several directions. In fact, you know that the 2012 budget was not adopted in time. The BiH institutions were financed in the first half of 2012 on the basis of decisions on temporary financing until 31 May when the budget was finally adopted. We always stress that it is necessary to adopt the budget in time for institutions to commit themselves to a business that is unburdened by a possible failure to adopt a budget, or a position on certain items that may not be accepted, adopted, and the cost inevitably arises because life cannot stop. So we always pay attention and make recommendations to such circumstances. We have also observed in all institutions one aspect of the business of institutions for this year where we have argued that it is necessary for the efficient and effective work of institutions to have a quality strategic development plan. So institutions should have a vision of their development, they should have a document called, as we know popularly in practice, the Strategic Development Plan. However, the finding is that most institutions do not possess one such document, and it is known that without clearly defined objectives, without clear planning and without measuring these results, which are directed towards this quality planning, we are hardly able to measure and measure the results and can hardly achieve any improvement. So our recommendation is that it is necessary to pay urgent attention to strategic planning, and on this occasion, we have, therefore, expressed one of our recommendations and, of course, in future work in the coming period, will further operationalise this recommendation so that institutions can access such a situation more easily and adequately. You also know that we have a lot of conversations, stories, round tables, about the fight against corruption, about the prevention of the fight against corruption. We have, so here we go, how many, two years, established and the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency, but BiH has accepted and adopted the Strategy for the fight against corruption. Analyzingly, all those who manage public funds, all institutions, all budgetary users,... all the funds, all those who have 50% plus one share of public funds in their capital, yes, should, if we are to deal with the systematic prevention of the fight against corruption, have to draw up our own plan and anti-corruption programme. Unfortunately, a very small number of institutions have one such document. We, too, specifically stressed the need for such a document, so any institution financed from the budget should have a plan to fight corruption because it is known that repressive methods for fighting corruption cannot give the expected results, there must be this prevention. Why? Because, in this classic fight against corruption in a legal sense, it's hard to find, find a classic victim, right. Therefore, only preventing the fight against corruption can produce adequate results. Of course, at the state level, the state institutions have a relatively small amount of funds relative to the total funds in BiH and I expect, I would really like to, and I think that you who come from entities, in a certain way, would have one thesis, the initiative should be extended to all segments, because, as we know, there are lower levels of government where the revision very rarely, the public audit of the public sector rarely enters, etc. Therefore, this activity would somehow have to be found a way for it to develop coordinatedly. The internal control system, as we also know, is one of the systems of our recommendations, observed as a whole in institutions, still not satisfactory. There is also a need for this, as we say, tone(?) From the top. Therefore, internal controls can't say there aren't any, but we can also say there's never enough. Therefore, in this respect, it is necessary that the internal control system rests on three pillars, meaning systematic financial management and control, internal audit and central Harminisation Unit. We think, in this sense, we also made a recommendation that this system should be further strengthened by a single legal act, regulated by a single legal act that can be called the 4 financial management law or the fiscal responsibility law. After all, countries in the environment have such laws. Therefore, I think it is necessary to round up this cycle and such a legal solution. Also remaining sublaws, in accordance with the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, have not yet been passed. You know that we have passed the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions four or five years ago, not all the necessary sublegal acts that, in a certain way, need to introduce order, to establish uniform rules of conduct, etc., in a certain way categorizing certain costs. Therefore, I believe the Council of Ministers, and here I have information that it is trying and will be put on the agenda of several such internal acts very quickly. Therefore, these standards of consumption do not exist in that sense. The system of public procurement at the level of institutions has not yet been established in a satisfactory manner. In that sense, we also made recommendations. The overall process of managing capital investment projects is also not satisfactory, from preparatory actions, the implementation of public procurement procedures to the finalisation itself. The employment process generally observed at the institution level is not sufficiently transparent and there are weaknesses in its implementation. In this regard, a systematic recommendation is also given. Since salaries and fees in BiH institutions occupy a high percentage, somewhere between 65% and 75%, we consider it necessary to regulate this system specifically by separate laws for three levels of government, respecting, of course, the laws special which are lex specialis. Also, the status of state property has not yet been resolved which greatly increases the risk of rational and household governance. Therefore, the process... at the level of institutions is also quite problematic. It would be necessary, as I say, for the institutions, the Council of Ministers or possibly those reports on the work and work programmes being discussed in the Parliamentary Assembly in a certain way to pair those reports, to discuss them together, to compare what was planned and what had been achieved. Of course, it would be desirable for all these documents to be considered in a certain way and with a report on the audit carried out. Here, it would in a certain way be some sort of a set of these systemic recommendations. We still have a few of them – international accounting standards at the level of state institutions should be adopted as well, we write about it every year. And here, that would briefly be anything to do with these systemic recommendations. Perhaps it's even more interesting for you to have this opportunity to tell you that we also have a rather perhaps interesting situation about the non-engagement of credit funds and the payment of non-engaged funds. According to the Council of Ministers, the state of the public sector's external debt in BiH on 31.12.2012 is 7131,000,367 KM and is higher than the previous year by 470,320,000. Debt is located on entities, Brcko District and BiH institutions. The total amount of foreign debt is covered by the Federation of BiH with 62.85, RS 36.60, Brcko District 0.15, BiH institutions with 0.40. From the total amount...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18593	Mr. Šego, time for these opening remarks is up. You'll have another chance to speak, but we have another House session besides this, so if possible, here's to bring these opening remarks to some business time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18594	All right, I can get it over with right now. Thank you very much for the opportunity, and of course after the discussion we are at your disposal. Thank you very much. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18595	Thank you. Whether the chairman of the Finance and Budget Committee wishes to address himself in this introductory section. Here you are, the word has an Emir Kabil.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18596	Dear President, honourable MPs. Here, I am particularly pleased that, I would point out some of the positive things that happened when it came to the Finance and Budget Committee, and about the work of the Audit Office. What's very important is that we managed to, in some, let's say conditionally, optimal timing to complete all these analysis of audit reports that are very high-quality, comprehensive and which should be treated as such. The people of the Audit Office, I must admit, have made significant shifts in their work when it comes to their transparency and quality of presentation, and all of this is sublinated in this Annual Report in the main findings and recommendations for 2012 which we have received in one quality form. What matters and what I would say, let's just point out, there were no negative reports for 2012. We mainly had 73 reports, mostly we had an emphasis on the subject, whether it was a positive opinion or an opinion with a blade with an emphasis on the subject. In all these highlights of the case, I would point out, and unfortunately, the Commission was not able to influence much, although it had a lot of initiative in its work to encourage Parliament and the Council of Ministers that those who keep repeating mistakes, and this happened in the previous term, were simply to create a transparent programme that would make these people do different things and think differently. Unfortunately, this has not happened and all our initiatives that have been sent or directed towards the Parliamentary Assembly have in some way melted, and here, I must admit, we feel a little unhappy and dissatisfied because we consider it to be Sisif's work which unfortunately the Commission has failed to realise in the way it should be realized. All the problems and all the highlights of the case, I'd say, would be sublimed in a few things. This is the first – contracts for working with people working in BiH institutions, means with the same people working at work and after working hours sign work contracts, and this is a significant item that the Commission has noticed on several occasions for finance and budget, which auditors have consistently pointed out as a... problem. Then, the purchases. Public procurement, unfortunately we haven't adopted the Public Procurement Act yet, talking about public procurement is ridiculous right now. But there are always certain problems being stolen, so if you want problems that can indicate and suspect irregularities or even crimes. Of course, our Commission cannot deal with this problem and is not bound by it either, but we have pointed out on several occasions that these procurement problems and, I would say, inactive or ineffective work by the Council of Ministers when it comes to the adoption of this procurement law must be resolved as soon as possible. Then, buy some space. There's a pattern situation where the leases of space and parking are, I would say, absolutely different from the institution to the institution, so in each of our reports, we've pointed to this problem, but so far we've made no solution to this issue. The issue of representation, the question of use and purchase of vehicles, we pointed out, the use of mobile phones, all of these are items that stick to citizens' eyes on budget users, but unfortunately we have failed to move anything from a dead end, regardless of our desire and will, to encourage a proactive approach to this problem. 6 What is very important today is that, regardless of the quality work of the BiH Audit Office, we step up the importance and work of internal audit offices. We have noticed that there is a strong colourfulness between various internal audits and that there is no single form that would indicate that internal audits would work even more proactively and quality to address their problems and issues. So, we have agreed and we will also be initiating, as the Commission for Finance and Budget, we will report to the Parliamentary Assembly to simply strengthen and adopt certain laws and measures on the creation of enhanced internal controls which, I would say, will be the first barrier to support any irregularities normally occurring in institutions. We also found, unfortunately, that there are institutions that do absolutely nothing, institutions that pay for no work and whose efficiency and efficiency is zero. That's what we've been saying with regret. We have institutions that are budget users that absolutely, I wouldn't now state here that we'll probably mention in the discussion, who absolutely didn't do anything, which lead to very important segments, especially when it comes to fighting corruption that we all here have declared. I would like to point out once again that the Secretariat or the Secretary of the Finance and Budget Commission, which has been maximumly included, that all the relevant documents of the Audit Office are presented at the right time, that the timing is respected in order to go out with all these documents in front of the Parliamentary Assembly, and in that sense I really thank them once again for really getting involved in the resolution of these problems. What do you say after that, here's three years of work on this committee? I'm afraid that, and that's my opinion, perhaps subjective, that unfortunately we finance and budget members can't have much influence, although there is both desire and will and desire, that certain things which in our opinion, which we have openly and clearly said at our meetings, borders and with some criminal acts. We cannot influence them to pass on to those institutions where they would be processed. Believe me, we have made some decisions, some conclusions, which we have presented and sent to Parliament, but unfortunately none of them have been implemented. So, we will continue to do our jobs, if nothing else we will strive to make our legal framework, which we must respect for Parliament and these institutions, do, but I'm afraid that sometimes, I wouldn't say criminal measures, but some measures proactively will force people to do all these 7-8 items, which are repeatedly repeated as a highlight of the case, are definitely... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18597	I thank Mr. Kabil. So before we open the debate, just a few notes. We have limited the discussions to 5 minutes at the first part of this session, but since this is a continuation of the session and given the importance of the issue we are talking about, we will leave a business opportunity of 10 minutes for all those who want to discuss these points of the agenda. And the second note is that 10 days ago in writing, you were informed that, in case we don't finish the 57th and the 58th session today, we'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. If we're gonna end up in the day, it's up to us now. So I'm opening a debate on these agenda points. Who's calling? The word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18598	Dear chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, guests. Here, let me say a few words on this important subject that is today on the agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you for allowing at least 10 minutes to be said for 70 audit reports, and this is really correct, since we are not considering the audit report according to the report. When we concluded the Project on drawing up guidelines for reviewing audit reports somewhere in 2007 with the British Embassy, we believed that this would significantly affect the improvement of responsibility for the invested public money. Today, at regional level, the Commission for Finance and the budget of the Parliamentary Assembly represents a regional leader. This was confirmed a few days ago at a regional conference in Budva where the way in which the audit reports are discussed by Parliament is the best. So neither countries that have a much longer democratic tradition and are EU members have this way of dealing with audit reports, such as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. But Parliament's relations and revisions are only half way. The second half is called relations between Parliament and the Council of Ministers. It means a lot what the Joint Commission is doing, or the Parliamentary Assembly itself, but even more so, it means that we do not have the proper willingness of the executive to bring all of this to the level necessary to improve the state of responsibility for public money. In this sense, there is indeed a need to say a few data that most eloquently speak about the situation in this area. Positive opinions, excuse me just a little, the total number of recommendations the revision made in 2010 was 286. In 2011, 463, and 2012, the last audit report was 412. Now watch the graduation of it. The recommendations realised were 40% in 2010, 40% in 2011, 31% in 2012, meaning the decline towards the recommendations made below. Realisation in progress, that's what's hard to measure whether you did something or didn't and whether it would be completed by the next round, also in 2010 40%, in 2011 30%, and in 2012 26.5%. Unrealised recommendations make it very clear that in 2010, 21 was almost 22%, in 2011 17%, but in 2012, almost 30%. This says that financial indiscipline in institutions is increasing, and that root should be sought. We also have recommendations that couldn't be seen, which probably applies to the Intelligence Agency. And it's really amazing that there's no mechanism for verifying that agency, too, because we know that other countries are doing that too, and we have a commission that deals with the Intelligence Agency, but it's not, we probably don't have an answer to that question. And here's the audit office, it doesn't have the right to access all the data. So that's what's left of us as a question that stands in the questionnaire. What are the biggest problems in all of this? Something said by the general auditor, not enough built internal control system. So it's amazing that for 6-7 years it's been repeated as a key thing that we have an unbuilt internal control system and that it's already become recognizable and these audit reports resemble each other by always saying that an internal control system has not been built. Costs of service vehicles, use of service vehicles, telephones, representations, travel costs, etc. So it's been repeating itself for years and we don't have any steps when it comes to it. As far as public procurement is concerned, although they are largely distracted by the Office for Audition that the Law on Public Procurement is not respected, however, this law allows certain institutions to comply with the law. He's respected mostly by less institutions. It is not respected by those who are largely valuable and are by the rule of the greatest remarks. So the issue of corruption is exclusively on the agenda. We have dealt with issues in which disrespect for the Law on Public Procurement in the Defence System can be a problem and where 8 ends up the huge money that goes wrong in that system. For years, the institutions have been unable to make a public procurement plan. Well, you can't remember today that you need something tomorrow. We can't wait to have a peace mission tomorrow or some military operation to remember that soldiers need uniforms today. So these are the things to plan for. But the ineffectiveness of the process itself is visible and therefore, in my opinion, I could point to any public procurement that I consider to be the work of corruption. The audit office still doesn't dare do it so clearly, although we have so many times asked that in the course of the audit, although I do know that the audit is working on a random sample method and that it can happen to skip something that is very important and that it deals with something that is minor, we still can't say that these large purchases must really be checked and seen and that they put observation on the subject of corruption in public procurement. The auditor general also mentioned something about the fight against corruption. I don't want to talk about it right now, but I'd like something that maybe, maybe my colleagues will accept it or not, I'd like to touch something of an audit report relating to the Parliamentary Assembly. Now we were, I told you, at this big regional conference in Montenegro and we had very polumic views about it. So the revision gave Parliament an opinion with a reserve. I think there are few institutions working in such a way as Parliament does from the aspect of the regularity of the documents. I've never, ever been in the economy, but I've never happened to have come from the official road within two days just orders. I've never happened to justify any bill. So, my, it's such a domestic... a habit, I so have to respect it and agree with it. What did the Audit Office give Parliament an opinion with the reserve? These are things that Parliament can never change. So she gave commission work for the reserve, and that applies to the Commission, to the independent body formed by Parliament, that's for this anti-corruption. It took Parliament a long time to understand what it was all about, to come to the conclusion that it was an independent body, that it was not a committee of the Parliamentary Assembly. And it's been a while, and we're learning a lot of things, so it's something that had to happen that way. It was absurd for the audit office to comment on that. The other thing is, you know that the congregation's representatives were taking a shower. We had a representative of the audit there, the auditors from Croatia and Serbia asked – whether it was done by Parliament's document, which it is, the new regulation defined it. So what do you write on why Parliament didn't do it? And that's what the review keeps writing, because now it's become a rule, better written than unwritten. An auditor who came in one year, not knowing anything about Parliament, said he needed to import the list. Man doesn't know what legislative authority is. So, the auditors who come, who should be instructed in all this, he comes and says should introduce parliament's Shiht list, not knowing that parliamentarians are working even when they have political parties on the ground. And yet, here I am finishing, travel expenses in the country and with a view to the President of the Commission and the use of vehicles for official purposes. An impact review has been carried out around the rolling stock and the audit finds that it is much more efficient and cheaper when private vehicles are used for official purposes than when using state cars, because they wash gasoline, repairs ten times and so on. And after that, he realizes that what we have in our acts was adopted as a violation. All the allegations that are listed here for Parliament are the allegations that should not stand, as none deviates from the document adopted by Parliament. So I'm asking you to make a point. We haven't done that before, the audit office is prescribing that part. We don't need anything that doesn't fit the standards, we shouldn't be afraid to do that, but what's done in our acts is not a violation, and it can't affect us getting an opinion with the reserve. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18599	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18600	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I would look back on this wonderful audit report from my position, that is, all the audit reports that I have been able to look at in such a way. Here, listening to the presentation of the chairman, i.e. the President of the Finance and Budget Commission of the BiH Parliament, Professor Dr. Kabil, and one gap in this report, where the chairman himself presented, in a way, doubts that he could do anything about this report. Every time we discuss these reports, sometimes more concrete and more comprehensive, and sometimes more superficially, it seems to me that at least today by the number of debates reported, this discussion could also be as comprehensive as the overall audit report is and very specific and very high quality. We'll probably end the discussion, split up, and nothing will be done about this. This Parliament has tried several times to even change the legal procedure, what to do and do with those who are constantly, constantly breaking the law, doing irregularities, doing crime, tending to corruption in BiH institutions. Here we are talking about corruption and crime, so this corruption and crime is in this building, in this building next to us there in BiH institutions at... Here, so we have this opinion with a reserve with an emphasis on the subject. I see that BiH Defence Minister, and I'd like him here to be able to show himself about some of the things he's got, I don't know, negative opinion. Not only him, but all those who are here from all of these nine institutions, not to mention others who are here. The ministry, but here's counterpart Kabil, Mrs. Majkić, they discussed here and in some way criticized and said, they expressed their impotence, because the executive power as many times as we've come to some conclusions, recommendations, is it, keeps it somewhere and they're not worried about it. But there is a parliamentary majority here, so the parliamentary majority has produced the Council of Ministers and in the Council of Ministers there are people who are the wishes and wills of parliamentary parties that make up the parliamentary majority. These people name there, I don't know either, people in agencies, and they constantly, continuously break the laws, break the rules, and bring us all into one doubt that there is a presence, and yes, it means a corrupt moment and a criminal moment. You can tell from these reports. We have a further institution, this means the document is public as it says, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, what it does on this and nothing. Has anyone lost their job or possibly without any pay suspended because of their irresponsible behaviour towards the citizens of BiH, according to budgets? It's no one. Even after discussions like this, I get the feeling that people are even more ready, electrocuted to keep doing what they've been doing so far. And in these recommendations that are seen here, is whether, yes, it is recommended, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. Well, they're recommended, so here's what we know. Let's see if today, after this debate, doesn't do it. Not just, I don't know, the indirect tax administration, but all the others. Because last time we had a representative question about how many people work in institutions under a contract of action. So we've seen in a variety of, and in these small institutions that don't have a very large number of employees, I don't know, a few dozen maybe 30, 10 all year round, it's kind of going from 7 to 10 people, I don't know, I don't know, who work under a contract of action. I don't really follow, but I haven't been in the means of public communication or noticed that a tender for any of these BiH institutions is being opened for employment when it comes to, is it, or for the reception of a civil servant or a tenant. I didn't really see them, I'm not gonna say they weren't there, but I didn't come across much. Obviously, there are, meaning some other methods, which in any case corresponds to those that are the parliamentary majority. But it is good that the entire public in BiH knows what we are. I'm looking here, I've been discussing, I remember last year or before last year, when members of the Management Board of indirect taxation, see members of the Management Board, received 3,600 KM, are now reduced to 2,200 KM. So the BiH institution to the board of directors made up of finance ministers and state entities, and I think two or three people on the side, have the meaning of receiving 2,200 because they are members of the Management Board for indirect taxation of 2,200 KM. I'm looking at these reports and they're positive, some of these executives have the right to spend their phones, I don't know, 400-500 or something marks, is it, are they their rules? So, the Council of Ministers doesn't have standardized regulations when it comes to representation, when it comes to the use of phones and the use of official vehicles. We often talk, I don't know either, here's Mrs. Majkić talking about the use of private, taxis, official, state vehicles, I don't know, so let's compare to some countries the Danish Parliament has 2 vehicles, neither do I, the Swiss Government doesn't have or has 5 vehicles. I don't know who doesn't have all the vehicles and how he doesn't use them all. Here, it should be, so here we have very good conclusions, very good recommendations, but I would not recommend someone, so this Parliament should give orders to the Council of Ministers, BiH institutions to implement the law in each segment until the end, to uniformly apply the rules. So someone spent a lot of money on their cell phone, or I saw, I don't know, a positive report, say, the Institute of Measurement, like, 100,000 tags for the journals they spent. And often here they ask us how much pay our parliamentarians are, that we need to be reduced, e 100,000 marks spent on travel logs abroad, I don't know, 30,000, 29,000 paid some overnight stays there and here in BiH around 30.00. And I don't know, the director spent it on the phone a month, but it's within the framework of the Regulations, 400 marks. The second agency, the director, has the right to spend 200 marks. We will have the agenda point today, meaning the adoption of the 2012 report of the Council of Ministers where we will see certain savings in the budget, but I am telling you that in BiH we are at a cost of waste and that we are not acting in accordance with the situation and the possibilities of BiH at all, and this is not an honor, and above all, it is not an honor for the parliamentary majority. And today, here and colleagues from the parliamentary majority are going to debate on this subject and here's a chance to, here's a chance to fix what's possible from today, and that someone because of these things they've done here, means these illegal things that someone is responding to in terms of the penalty of pay rejection, not what they're saying, at the end of what Dr. Kabil said, is there, some of us, to take proactive measures. No proactive measures, no proactive measures. They only have measures when someone possibly pocketed you or eventually suspended you from work, if anything... What internal control. The boss is very important, or most important in any institution. His employee must not even exercise internal control if he did not allow it, he does it completely... But, I say, there are no proactive measures but only criminal measures, and we must be prepared to do so, and we must do so in our ranks, and therefore, first of all, the parliamentary majority should be prepared. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18601	Thank you. As House Chairman, who has the obligation to direct this debate, I will take this opportunity to take advantage of all MPs, since we have a very large list of reported ones, to try to call on them to discuss this issue more specifically, so that we do not convince the things we already have in the report, to try as much as possible to focus on concrete conclusions and measures. You've all received 8 conclusions from the Commission. Let's see if these are the right conclusions, if there's any other suggestions that could be attached to those conclusions. So, I call on each discussion to come up with a proposal for a conclusion, because we have no use for the debate, only in concerted conclusions and measures can we improve the situation. I am obliged to say that this part that I have just said does not apply in any way to previous debaters, but to more messages and to all others that we try to really focus on the topic and on repairing the situation in this area. The word has an MP, Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18602	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the first part of my presentation, I will refer to the basic findings of the audits and recommendations, and in the second part I will refer to the recommendations of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Representatives. At the very beginning, I would like to say that this report, which we are discussing today, shows great progress in achieving public control over public money and its effective use by the BiH Parliament. Of course, we still have a lot to do, first of all, to define measures that would further improve the process of responsible public spending, but I think we're on the right track. In this regard, I would particularly like to highlight the role of the BiH Audit Office and the excellent co-operation we have had on the line of the Finance and Budget Commission and the Audit Office. I would briefly start with the evaluations that were given in the Audit Office's report. The first assessment refers to the conclusion that the 2012 budget is not set in due time. This is indeed a major obstacle to good planning and, of course, to monitoring budget spending. I think that already in 2013 we removed this deficit, here we are now on the road, that is, tempted to see for 2014 how and to what extent we will respond to this task of timely adoption of the budget, by having to conclude right at the beginning that we are the deadlines set by law in a certain way already broke. But there is, there is a way to make up for it. And in general with regard to these remarks, or recommendations made by the Audit Office, I would like to say that they are, in fact, a great guide for Parliament's activity in the part that, in part of the recommendations relating to its activity. So, the first part, this first, first point relating to the adoption of the budget is our strategic objective, therefore, of the 2014 Budget being adopted on time. The second point refers to the internal control system. I think that here we are in great temptation, i.e. the great task and the recommendation given by the Office for Audit should be found in the work plan of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2014 in the section relating to the Financial Management Act, i.e. the Alternative Law on Fiscal Responsibility. So that's something that we would do, which we would certainly answer to this problem and the perceived flaw that is mentioned in everything, in all the so-called Office of Audit reports. Otherwise, I would like to say that in my opinion the Audit Office plays a very progressive role in the choice between two dilemmas. The real dilemma is whether to tolerate and lower the 12 scale of the evaluation of the efficiency of the work of the beneficiaries of the budget or raise that scale and constantly seek to achieve greater performance in the use of budgetary resources. Obviously we see here that the selection of the Audit Office is constantly raising the scales, because when you look at more detail you will see in the recommendations and detecting problems to, say, emphasize internal controls and the fight against corruption, which we have not had in the past reports particularly highlighted. Therefore, I am not for this, as was some opinion on the Budget and Finance Commission, to talk about it 68 institutions have an opinion with some kind of reserve, so we are all the same, so there is no differentiation here etc. The audit office is looking for shortcomings, not finding good sides, etc. I'm against such opinions, I think we must go decisively to raising standards and that's what will lead us to the desired goal of using money publicly in an effective way. Furthermore, consumption standards, this is a very important issue. Without consumption standards we will always have here and in this, this high House of Volunteers debate. Here, now we heard some fellow speeches, spent 100 grand on travel expenses. Well, maybe it's an expression of great savings in that institution. What's the standard? We're talking about spending a lot of money at the Foreign Ministry on the national team, 576,000 marks really Gorki, as Gorki would say. But what's the standard? Maybe it's, maybe it's even a reduction, maybe it's a reduction that hurts the country's reputation. Well, no, I mean, volunteering is always possible if there's no standard. That is why I think this is one of the strategic important issues and I would address it to the Council of Ministers to prepare standards in the most extensive items of expenditure of BiH institutions. Public procurement. I think we now have a chance to discuss this problem in light of the bill that will be found in this House and that, on the basis of the findings of the Audit Office, we approach and discuss such a document. There is one, in the same group of problems and state property, the fight against corruption, and I would particularly stick to the issue of pay regulation. The Audit Office Report mentions the need for all levels of government to have different levels, to have their own regulatory framework. Last time we had the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of the Prosecutor's and Judicial Authority and consciously or unconsciously, we then observed the problem independently of the context in which we are now placed by the Office of Audit. So that's a very important issue about managing public money. And I think when we look at everything that many of the recommendations made by the Office of Review in large numbers already have Parliament engaged and, by solving from another angle, we solve problems and problems that are related to the management of budgetary resources. When it comes to the second part of my presentation relating to the conclusions of the Commission, i.e. the proposal for the conclusions of the Finance and Budget Commission, I would just point out that part relating to some... activities that should be further followed. I think, firstly, and as a Member of the Commission, it is very important that the Commission's recommendation on Parliament, namely the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, be carried out, that the reports by the representatives of institutions who had an opinion with the reserve, with the emphasis on the subject of meeting this House on what activities have been undertaken, what activities are under way, which are realised and what is intended to be done in the coming period to overcome the problems identified by these reports. Another point of these recommendations, I would strongly like to highlight the need for the Council of Ministers to be actively involved in all these activities on the implementation of the Recommendations of the Office for Audit. Without the Council of Ministers, we won't be able to finish the job properly. Thank you for your attention. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18603	I thank Ambassador Domazette. The word has an MP, Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18604	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, guests, I welcome you all. I have a special desire to make a few sentences, I will not speak as a predecessor for ten minutes, and in two, three minutes, I will try to express what I consider to be an MP and a member of the opposition. On the 104th page, the Office for Audits explained and explained the situation in BiH institutions with all the comments. However, what may surprise me a little bit, but I would like to hear this opportunity, and in the end, to allow my short speech and other colleagues to bring out at least a few sentences, because from the predecessors first of all of the ruling structures we had the opportunity to hear how it was necessary to do so. In Domazet extremely beautiful scientific way, he gave us his views, opinions on this audit report, but it would be good to translate this into an application. Since you're making a parliamentary majority, if you had executive power, it would be good if all these things were concreteized, first of all, third year goes by we don't have anything. And in the fourth year, we only have to ask one question -- is this government, this Council of Ministers, this parliamentary majority doing a job that has practically been given the opportunity? The Office for Audit in the Assembly opinion has seen practical problems through the budget, so the budget has not been adopted in time. I agree completely, in 2012, or in 2011, it passed in the anticipation and formation of government, etc., but in 2012, it was definitely the year when something had to be done. The lack, I admit, but when it comes to the lack of strategic planning, I believe that the parliamentary majority, i.e. the Council of Ministers, has failed to determine the strategic direction of action in all these areas where even problems have been seen through an audit opinion. The fight against corruption and fraud has not made absolutely significant progress and shifts, so we certainly cannot say as an opposition that anything has been done. However, with the internal control system, counterpart Jurišić also said earlier that we have internal auditors, etc., but they do nothing, too. So the question arises whether we need those auditors at all in such a mass and a pan size, for such means, for such a small effect. In this respect, I believe that no matter what the situation is, we say internal controls are not effective. It is also necessary to seek and strengthen public administration and fiscal responsibility, however, it is forgotten that one of the reasons for the lack of sublegal acts, which were practically in accordance with the law already in 2008, and this is the Law on Payments, was then the time period for these sublaws to be passed which has not been done. The lack of standards of spending it, there is no point in even talking about it, I think that all problems of practically non-domestic relations are viewed through trips, purchases of expensive cars, hotel accommodations, travel around the world at a distance for which no effect can be said or very little has been. However, what was particularly interesting in the audit report to me was precisely that in the administration of indirect taxation, therefore recommendations at 33 points, everything is stated. We believe that, often through parliamentary initiatives and parliamentary issues, I have warned that practically a large number of violations appear at border crossings. The administration of indirect 14 taxation has made a certain shift, however the mass is, the Council of Ministers and the ruling structure has not done enough to regulate these things in time, which we all feel together as a major failure. However, what has passed has passed. The audit office also gave an opinion in its opinion, above all in the analysis and the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives' House of Representatives, with a reservation through 18 points. So the recommendations are as they are, but what is particularly interesting is that 11 points from practically 2011 are not, are not realised. I think that's one of the important things, given that we're here and we can't look for blame on someone else, but on the contrary, we have to ask if we did what we had to do, first of all, those who have steering levers. I would therefore like to conclude that with only one question, on the basis of all of this presented through the audit reports – is it possible to expect someone for all of these failures that have been made in any way to warn, sanction, fines, etc.? And will this generation of MPs, even the next ones, read these audit reports, discuss and let the dust agree on them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18605	I thank my colleague Jagodić. Before I give my word to the next MP, I would like, on behalf of the House of Representatives, to believe in the name of the College, and in our personal name, to welcome students from 13 secondary schools in the Sarajevo and Eastern Sarajevo areas who are visiting the BiH Parliamentary Assembly today as part of the Human Rights Day celebration. The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18606	Thank you. So, I will try, as my fellow oppositionist Jagodić, to be brief. Very briefly, therefore, I am expressing a real recognition to our Commission that in this way has provided us with one document, so a summary opinion that gives the opportunity for man to get along in all of this and gain one global approach to this whole thing. On this basis, it can be clearly concluded that only four institutions operate in accordance with regulations, laws, instructions, rules, etc. So, just four institutions, these are these three agencies and this Foreign Affairs Service, and I think those four institutions should specifically highlight and encourage and point them out as one kind of example. So 62 institutions are with a positive opinion but with an emphasis on the subject. So, what it means is whether they broke the laws or didn't break the laws, whether there's responsibility, whether there's material damage, etc.? So this is pretty much what Professor Domazet was talking about, a pretty confusing definition of the assessment of the situation. Ten institutions have been specifically processed, etc. to make an opinion with the reserve. This mild expression of opinion with the reserve, so are these institutions where the harsh violation of the laws, regulations, etc., which also entails moral, but of course criminal responsibility? And as for the Commission's recommendations and conclusions, it's not worth spending time on, we all know what their destiny is and what's happening to them. I picked up the most because of what I'm about to say, because of what I'm about to say. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to make one realistic analysis and an impact assessment of this model of revision, in 15 extremes what it produces, which it benefits and which preventive actions have results. Because the current model is based on caution and recommendation, etc. Apparently, he doesn't drink too much water and he doesn't experience what we expected him to experience. It may be European practice has that result, but our spaces are highly recommended and opinions with a reserve, positive, emphasising the subject, I would not say that they understand well. Perhaps we expect too much from the office, or the Office of Audit, and forget what their practical basic function is. Therefore, they determine practically whether the reports show a fair and true state of affairs of property, liabilities, etc. and whether financial transactions and information are shown in the financial reports in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations. So, quite a reduced possibility for the office to have the right to enter into the full essence of the quality of the regulations, sub-promising acts, this is what Mrs. Majkić was talking about. I am therefore absolutely certain that the Office of Audit, the Office of Audit, should be more seriously approached and considered the conclusion of this House, which has not been realized. You answered my parliamentary question when I asked – why does not the conclusion of this Assembly be realized, so if it is not realistic to put it out of force, you have answered me – that there is no need, etc., that every touching in this law puts us at risk to jump out of standards, etc., and that it puts us at risk to make the Office independent, unsustainable, to expose it to pressures etc. So I continue to argue that this conclusion of the House of Representatives, in this sense in which I was saying, that the Office is strengthened, to strengthen, because obviously this model does not deliver results. Because the example works, for three years you've determined that the Council of Ministers doesn't bring three simple regulations, representations, cars, cell phones, what the public is interested in. And now they've sent these draft regulations to some consultations, etc. We will read again in the 2013 report that there are no rules under which it works. Well, then we should be entitled to give the order that there is no such cost until it is settled, either by the Commission or by this Parliament, etc. And two, three sentences on the reserve report, an opinion with a reserve when it comes to Parliament. So we should pay particular attention to this, because we are also actors of this situation and our commission makes recommendations to the Parliamentary Assembly. Who? So, the Joint Affairs Service, we need to know the name and last name of who's in charge and who's in charge and who's in charge of this money, for the proper use of money in this House. And of course, it's one thing to have a rule that might be comfortable, and it's one thing to talk about, and the other thing to do is to pay past the rules or past any regulated areas. So, if it's an objection to the cobwebs, then you have to talk – people don't like that rule, don't, it's a lot of it, not that it's illegal to do, it's not working because there's that decision, there's a decision, and I'm asking you nicely. But then we need to discuss whether she's moral, whether she's moral, whether or not she needs to be, whether she's in line with financial opportunities, etc. Here, this one, so calling on you once again to consider and carefully analyse the existing model from the point of view of impact, as you do excellently impact reviews on certain issues, let's see, this one to analyse the impact of this model and to strengthen the BiH Audit Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18607	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18608	I have to replicate to my colleague, Beriz Belkić, because the Office for Audition cannot change the way she works, her way of working is defined by standards and her system of work is recommended, she has no other mechanism and her reports are her property until today. The day we adopt these documents, they are no longer owned by the Office of Audit, they are the property of this Parliament. The responsibility for behaviour is not an audit and should not be strengthened by the Office for Auditing, it should be strengthened because of other matters, and not because of that, this Parliament should be strengthened because of its responsibility, that what is written as a recommendation for the revision must be carried out. What is it,........................................................... [[no microphone turned on]] Just a little bit, so you're replicating me, a positive opinion got this in 2012 only four institutions, that's 1.26% of the budget of BiH. And the opinion with the reserve is won, the opinion with the reserve is 57.30% of the Budget of BiH, which is actually a measure. Why did the degradation happen? Because Parliament has not used the mechanisms that stand in his hand and because he, who is the only one responsible for it, the executive authority always behaves as he can, if Parliament does not have a whip in his hand, they will always behave differently. Don't you, colleague Jagodić, there isn't here, there are your sins, so don't be, don't just rely on this power, there are traditions...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18610	Please don't throw it away, everyone has a right to replication.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18611	So for years we've been repeating the same recommendations. The fact that they are not realised is the sole responsibility of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18612	Thank you. Now here are two replicas, dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18613	It's very short. We didn't understand each other, I'm not talking about the whip or the individual objects, I'm talking about the need, and we have the right, at the end of the day this Parliament has reached a conclusion that the Audit Office is reviewing the need to amend the existing law. That's all I was saying, to strengthen the office position, etc. So let's see what's going on with those massive reports, or cases that were delivered to the D.A.'s office. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, of course they're not guilty, I... 17
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18615	Don't throw away.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18616	Well, it's not a problem, this one. If there's anything else, there's Dušanka, if there's one.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18617	There's another replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18618	So, now that we understand each other, I hope we understand each other, don't be quick to replicate.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18619	Let's listen a little bit better, so there won't be any need for a replica. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18620	Thank you. I have to replicate to my colleague Majkić for the reason that by yesterday I and I could listen and greet both often and support your suggestions, but today when you discuss you are as responsible as the auditors, and you are responsible if you say this is all right, and you are criticizing others. I don't want to talk about a tenth in my term, I want to talk about what I did. However, what you're saying must take responsibility, because you had steering levers and you have to say you didn't do what you needed to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18621	Okay. Next, discussion, distinguished colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18622	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. I have had the challenge to participate in hearings of those who have received reports with a reserve or a reserve with an emphasis on the subject and to talk and to be among those who have created these conclusions. And for that reason, I just want to mention a few things here and I want to make sure that in one of the next reports they don't repeat themselves. If we look at things and let them go on their own then we won't, we'll have the same problem next year. It must be pointed out here that out of 74 institutions only 4 institutions received a positive opinion, that 58 of them with an emphasis on the case, one opinion with a reserve and 9 reserves with an emphasis on the case. When the funds are taken into account, the budget institution is 498,377,000 in its opinion. This is therefore an extremely significant resource, and therefore it should be taken into account how as many institutions and organisations as possible can come up with positive opinions and opinions that will be satisfactory in terms of consumption above all. When you pressure and influence smaller institutions and organisations, then certain effects can be achieved, but are financially negligible. That is why the key problem, first of all, should be the ministry that spends the most, and first of all I mean the Ministry of Defence that spends 18 over 330 million. They have achieved some results, they have done several of these, they have implemented 7 recommendations, then about 9 recommendations are made to them in realisation, while most of the recommendations are not yet realised, or are not in progress, no activity has been initiated for them regarding their realization. There is a particular problem that has occurred here and an increase in the number of employees. We have there already over 10,000 employees, and we are constantly talking about reducing the number of employees, we say that Budget BiH is burdened, that more than 22,000 employees are employed, and here there is a certain increase in the number of employees. For these reasons, it must be sat down once and here to tell us how much we need at the Ministry of Defence of the Soldiers, in what way, how they will be equipped, what they are trained for, because they are huge funds. I remember well when he was always, there was always pressure on that separation from, for the budget and needs of the military and in previous systems and now, but it seems to me that there is not enough support from all of us, but because of that, I insist on constantly going towards reducing the number of members and reducing the funds for which they are allocated for these needs. When this is all summed up, I have to say that there have been some shifts, but not enough as it should be. The particular problem is that the recommendations made, not only by the Commission, but by this Parliament, are not respected, and that is the problem. We have excellent quality co-operation when it comes to the Office of Audit and I think we're in the process of these two, three years and if we've ever had any misunderstandings that they've come to a level that is now quite good and satisfying. We have also agreed for these reasons there are no objections, but there are terrible remarks where individuals could, in a very simple way, and very quickly solve questions especially when it comes to the costs of using automibial, code, becomes little and degutant when you talk more, when using cars, with representation, through travel costs, etc. It is unacceptable that there are no unique rules in determining the amount of price to rent space. We need to understand that at the level of joint institutions 27 million is just for the cost of renting space, they vary in one square from 10 to 40 marks. Well, not everything, I keep saying it, but again here in this House to say, not all institutions have to be here in the center if the periphery is much cheaper, much cheaper that, square. Another inadequate and number of squares per institution is somewhere between 8 and 12, somewhere 20 m2 for one employee. These are 27 million costs that out of the total budget are 3%, not negligible, but must be taken into account that they are shrinking. I'm up for it if and to make certain institutions, better to make buildings and buildings than to put ourselves in a position to single out extremely significant and large funds. These costs in general, taking both mobile and fixed phones, they have come to a certain reduction, but I still think there are reserves, 9 million is spending. When we put pressure on mobile phones then these fixed phones began to grow a little bit, which means we should generally look at both costs and thus try to make as many of these costs fit into some real frames as possible. The use of the vehicle is somewhere around 17 million while the rental of the parking lot is 434 million. I believe when, since it's rented in private, when you rent space I believe that anyone who offers you space to rent will also provide parking. Unfortunately, I think it's a big 434 thousand marks for that kind of lease, I think it's too much. I still want to bring out a few things that are, I want to deliberately underline them, when it comes to contracts of action. For the work contract paid 6,685,000, for temporary and occasional jobs 1,400,000, etc., for the others, for the total contract and other special services 43 million. Very large funds, and I think that especially when it comes to... or signing an operating contract on jobs that are systematicized, these things can't happen. 19 And finally what I would like to point out, I would also like to thank the secretary of our Commission who has prepared and done this quality, and I think that the Commission has had this unique position, a good co-operation with the Office for Audition. But I also have to say that in 2012 according to the judicial verdicts, 3.128,000 were allocated from the budget, which is more than 62,000 from last year, of which the actions of the Ministry of Defence 283, from the Ministry of Finance 153 and the Border Police 179. Those costs were probably not made by these current ministers, but they were made by someone else. If those who make the costs and at the expense of the Budget of BiH were to be held accountable, it would be likely that decisions would be made differently. In that sense, I would like to call upon the discharge of these people, in other sanctions imposed if the processes are not conducted in accordance with the law that it will all return to us as a boomerang, not these, but perhaps three or four years from now, which is not good. Let's not get things over with with our mandate, let's introduce order in all segments. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18623	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Senad Šepić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18624	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to go into any particular details of this report, although there's a lot of space out there that would have a lot to say. So, my colleagues were less touched and some concrete inside examples. So, I think this audit report made by the office and the auditor's office is, in my opinion, mostly correct. But when it looks like this, it shows two basic things, according to how I saw it. The first is, therefore, that the same problems are repeated over and over again. And here, we are talking here, and this is my colleague, chairing this Commission, perhaps in one of the most concrete and precise ways, explained, from waste and disorder, from a non-transparent relationship to public funds, from public procurement, from work contracts, from renting space, from weak controls, from poor internal audits, etc., and this is something that we repeat every year. So if after many years we have as a situation that will always be mentioned in these reports, then it shows one thing, and that is that there is a weak political will in this country to manage fairly and transparently with public funds. And on the other hand, it shows the impotence of this House. So, we as Parliament most directly elected by people to protect their interests and help them live better, we need to take matters into our own hands more clearly and stronger and take responsibility for the state of the country. So the way in which the heads of these institutions, all institutions spending public money, the way the Council of Ministers is elected, and the way around the people who represent us and who run the government, how they are delegated there, is something that needs to be politically changed and that access to those who will be held accountable, i.e. those who are given a chance to bear responsibility, so to change in favour of this Parliament, which is actually made up of those people to whom citizens trust and from whom citizens expect to lead them in the best possible way and to protect them in the best possible way possible way. The other thing is trend. My colleague, Dušanka Majkić, has shown it well over the years in percentages. So the trend has shown that over the past two years, the number of recommendations that have been addressed has been reduced and financial indiscipline has been increased. So look at the situation in 2013, or in the last 3-4 years, the whole world is in fur. So, you have, the whole world of 20 is looking for some answers on how to set up, to make this transparency as high as possible, and to make spending public funds as rational as possible, so that we can survive this crisis. We live here in BiH, we have a government that leads this country in a way, so it's totally the other way around when it's supposed to have a completely different approach. So in that sense, I think that in this report we can most directly conclude that we are completely on the wrong path and we have to find a reboot in some way, we have to react in some way. So I think through these reports we should show that they're not all the same. My colleague, Beriz Belkić, mentioned several institutions that are listed here, which eventually received a positive opinion. And I think that we as Parliament and as a society, as BiH policies, should affirm it and in some ways show it as an example of how other institutions should act, how other institutions should work. And that's why, finally, I'm going to be as brief as possible, so I suggest that the House of Representatives adopt all the conclusions that the Commission has drawn in this way and in this way. On the other hand, I propose that the House of Representatives commit the Council of Ministers, that within 60 days at the latest, consider all these recommendations, because this is an extremely good, extremely good approach, extremely good material, therefore, to consider all recommendations and conclusions, and to deliver its own opinion and to respond to these conclusions and recommendations in accordance with its respective competences. Third thing, I suggest this House takes over one of my initiatives. I submitted one of the initiatives to the Council of Ministers a year ago to draft and deliver fiscal responsibility laws in the parliamentary procedure. Today, we heard Mr. Šega here, who for who knows which time mentions that this country should have a fiscal responsibility law. I must tell you that the Council of Ministers and that the competent institutions have responded very quickly to most of my other initiatives so far, I have been waiting one year for an answer in one sentence, what about the initiative that BiH is in this state of its fiscal responsibility law. So I invite you today, here are all your colleagues in the House of Representatives, to support one such initiative, to actually be the request of this House. Therefore, that the predstavnički of Representatives undertakes the Council of Ministers to draft and deliver the Fiscal Responsibility Act in parliamentary procedure also within 60 days at the latest. And I propose, if we want to show that we really do, and we want to show this political will to change relations and that in some way we react to what we all see wrong, that within 60 days at the latest we call a special session of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes that will have the title – the fiscal position of BiH and the realisation of the recommendations and conclusions of the Office for Audit and today's House of Representatives, when we talk about the Financial Business Review of the BiH institutions for 2012. I will also deliver these conclusions in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18625	Thank you. Next distinguished colleague, Petar Kunić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18626	Thank you, Chairman. However, the findings and recommendations are the same or similar each year and the Audit Office is not difficult to write reports, so to subscribe them to certain data and to the same, therefore, to the same terminology, to the same methodology, to submit that report. It's not hard, data is inserted, etc. I'd like the reports to be a little more specific. So, to go a little ad persona, from people, that these people are mentioned who are responsible for certain things, and where we have obvious questions that 21 are not legal, or that do not fit certain standards. And that might have a better effect. So every year when we look at the reports, we talk about financial indiscipline, about irrational spending of funds, these are basic dimensions. The question is, why is that? Every one of us has to think, so good, why does it repeat itself? Why do negative things repeat themselves? Most importantly, my point of view is that there's no legislation available. So the legal system is incomplete. He is not only unfinished on this segment, but he is unfinished almost in all segments at the level of BiH institutions. Not to spread the story now, I'll stick to this segment. My smallness, as counterpart Šepić earlier suggested some good things, I like them, we are somewhere on the same track, has proposed a Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Ministers and senior state officials, i.e. officials in the bodies of the state administration, administrative organisations. This Parliament confirmed the decision and made the decision in the 12th month, a year ago, to pass such a law that the Council of Ministers approached the draft law, then confirmed that decision on my intervention in the fifth month of this year. He hasn't given the Council of Ministers yet. There is a question of co-operation between the Council of Ministers and this Parliament. Of course, we have in the Council of Ministers people who are handling parties and that their followers will defend their ideas and will speak in the best light of anything that the Council of Ministers brings. Until then, until then, we'll have a situation like this. So when it comes to audit reports, then we have a common interest, all of us, regardless of which entity, from which party, etc., so to edit the system. The system isn't arranged now. Why don't we have that law? In this law we could install, which I have suggested, the possibility, and these are the wishes, to establish these standards of spending these funds that are disastrous compared to other countries. Please, it's a disaster, it's the behavior of medieval emperors as they acted. I'm, when I read that ministers, which is impossible to find in the acts, here's why, that ministers have discretionary powers to give someone funds. Please, in today's day, the minister has a discretionary right to give someone 5 grand, 6 grand, 10 grand, etc. Well, it has to be normatively regulated, and apparently, it's being conducted on the basis of sublegal generalizing acts. We, who are dealing with law, are constantly saying that the legislator must not leave many things to the executive to regulate sublegal generalized acts, but must regulate a particular area more in detail. Because sublegal general acts are a problem. You took off your responsibility, and the legislator gave you the opportunity to bring that act. Because, without the law, if you don't say it in the law, it's regulated by a sublegal act, that act can't be passed. So that's one of the big problems. Another problem I think the Audit Office said, which we don't have a law on the use of budgets, we don't have that law. So how do we spend our resources? So where are we to the rule of law? She's a long way from us, I don't know when we're gonna get her or if we're gonna make it. Responsibility. Responsibility is the material content of the rule of law. We don't have that embedded anywhere in the system. We have a relationship between the executive and the legislative authority established on the basis of the Constitution. The constitution is the constitutional one of a declarative, political legal act that requires development. We don't have the law in that field. Therefore, the incompleteness of the legislation is absolutely one of the reasons why we have this condition and that will be repeated until it sits down, seriously considering what laws in this regard are to be passed. At the time, I suggested that the Public Procurement Act be passed urgently. Then I was told in Parliament – it is in progress, we are working systematically on it and it will be very soon. And we have reports from NGOs that this state is losing about 700 million a year. So please, why there is no political will for it, and everything depends on political will, it will forgive me. The political will should create an atmosphere, give an impulse to pass the law, for 22 regulation of certain areas. Therefore, of course they bear the responsibility of the governing structure for this matter. Commentary on the lease issue, as is said, fuel consumption, cars, etc., it is already degutant here to discuss it, and it should no longer be in the future. We won't be, but leave that same question to the next group of people who are going to take up places here, is very bad. That's not allowed. If a parliamentarian in England is responsible for £3,000 and has to resign, so please, what's here? Where are we, at what stage? I too have a question to ask, so what shall we do? Are we such people, is that the state of our spirit? What's that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18627	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18628	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Whenever a review report is discussed and our Commission's report on these reports, the question is always asked as a rule – the position and role of the institution of the auditor-general or the auditor-general in BiH, with a view to seeing whether this role and position is set in the right way and whether something needs to be done when it comes to the revision in our system. So, I'm in line with those MPs who are looking at things that way and so far we're looking for solutions how to review that as best possible result. I now want to say that the revision, from the time it was established in BiH to today, has produced a huge result, but we should always strive and look at fields where there are still no results and see how this result is achieved. So far, we've been discussing the position of the audit, whether the audit should file criminal charges when it sees a certain lack, or whether it should just report to the institutions. It seems to me that we have discussed this matter here in Parliament and that it is a commitment to comply with international standards, and they say that the revision should not be the one to file criminal charges, but rather to deliver reports to the competent authorities, so that some competent authorities, within their competences, are acting. What I see this time as progress compared to all the years so far is, in my opinion, concentrated in the conclusion or the proposal to conclude number 8 which our Commission has formed and delivered to us here, therefore. In the 8th conclusion, it seems to me, for the first time since this kind of debate exists in the BiH Parliament, it proposes something that actually obliges Parliament to control the realization of what the audit has found to be a lack. So, removing the drawbacks. For the first time, it is said that seven institutions that have received an opinion with a reserve, with an emphasis on the case, or an opinion with a reserve, will be obliged to present here in front of Parliament a plan to remove shortcomings repeated back three years. And I think that's a great thing, that's a good thing. We want to see here, I was normally an advocate to discuss the report in Parliament according to the report, as is done on the commission. If the Minister or Head of the Authority of the Administration were to be present here, the auditor who audited and here's your pay phone, here we are, and let's see where the problem is. So then we decided it was the commission. And the commission is doing it based on the standards we adopted back in 2000, so when the review was established. Who remembers, in 2000, when this institute was established, the whole series of seminars and the education of Members of Parliament was on the subject of how to deal with auditor reports. And since then, this has been applied to BiH. And I think it's finally enough to have it in front of the commission and that we here at Parliament can discuss the summary reports, but I appreciate that the conclusion of 8, which was delivered here as a proposal, something that is 23 new in relation to the situation so far, and I think it's very good, because seven institutions will have an obligation, and we, as representatives, will have the opportunity to hear what they've done within 90 days, from the day this report is adopted, to remove the shortcomings identified by the revision. I think it will contribute to less of the shortcomings that will be identified by the auditor next year. Just two more things to do for a while. First, I think the revision should continue with the impact review. We have here through the Report received institutions that have an opinion with a reserve, with a prominent subject, who have a positive opinion with an highlighted subject, etc., which have a positive opinion, and therefore that is fine. The impact review, certain occurrences repeated, used to consider their reports. Some of these reports have been presented to us here in Parliament, such as the use of official vehicles and other reports that we have received here through the impact review. I propose that the Office of the Auditor-General, therefore this issue of phenomena occurring through these regular reports, as phenomena continues to be analysed through impact review and that this is beyond what seems to be happening so far. A colleague, Kunić, said one thing that I fully agree with. The state can't allow any individual, even if at any level he's been and what functions he's been, to have, autonomously, at his own discretion, financial resources at his disposal, none. There must be rules, it must be known who the users are, under what conditions, what procedures they are, and all these things must be respected together. Let's say that's one of the things that could be the subject of impact review, to see how things are going in BiH on that plan. And end up shutting it down from our system or doing it the right way in BiH. And the other thing I want to say is that, while I am aware that the audit cannot file criminal charges, and therefore agreeing with that international standard, I still suggest that, apart from the fact that the reports of the auditor-general for a particular institution will be delivered to the competent institutions, and also to the prosecutors, that when it occurs in the functioning of a particular institution that can have elements of illegal behaviour, that the audit should then be notified to the competent institutions only. Of course, not favouring a decision, not suggesting a decision to the institutions, but I think it would also contribute to a more successful fight against illegality, i.e. a contribution to a more efficient and functional action of the BiH audit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18629	Thank you. Next distinguished colleague Niko Lozančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18630	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, members of the review, guests. Well, what I would say is more about the method of our overall parliamentary work, action and action, when it comes to the Institute of Audit and the overall relations of all the institutions involved in this process. It seems more common to me that we have a lot of stories, that no one gets me wrong, a lot of noise, and a little bit of effect. We have an institution of review that we agree on, here's this, at least since I've been here in Parliament, that very correctly, professionally, they're doing that part of the job, and it's no longer a newspaper. We have our audited institutions and I will immediately say I think that year-on-year progress is being made in respect of the positive legal rules and established standards when it comes to 24 public resources. We don't have a single audited institution for 2012 with a negative opinion. For me, that's progress. We have 58 institutions with a positive opinion with an emphasis on the subject, but what are symbolic nature. I mean, most of the time, the issue of the lack of an Action Plan to prevent corruption is most often an observation that is... and ok. So, we don't have any big problems, and I'm afraid we're starting to do a little small things. I'm afraid that we don't fall into a trap so we don't make an inflation of some dissatisfaction and not create perception, unnecessary perception, and I'm not against it, so I'll say after this, about these specific proposals, it means unnecessary perception that nothing is wrong. We have an audit that works, here we have found and I thank all those who have found it, that our Finance and Budget Committee is doing quite well and doing this part of the job very well. As one of the members of the Committee, I'll say that we have excellent cooperation with the Audit Office, so that's where it all works. You have, as you said, here's how I don't praise that report right now, you have a pretty good report and a summary report and an audit office and our Finance and Budget Committee. And what I think, as I see the role of Parliament in all of this, it seems to me that there is no need for us all to deal with, if we already have all this in Parliament, to deal with all the individual audited institutions. It seems even to me that it would be good to think about all of us dealing exclusively with institutions that have an opinion negatively, dealing with everyone collectively, through the revision of the budget implementation report. So we're going to have, here's the next point of that question, we're going to repeat this story that we're talking about right now. I mean, there's no new story. So, and in the report on the implementation of the budget, we see how much total funding is planned, how much and for what is spent, and we have a revision of this report, and then we see where the deficits are in the spending and the availability of these funds. And our role should then be to base these sumptuous effects, the summary references of the Audit Office, where the defects are, to act and to see. Here, we see that these, conditionally, defects appear to be more or less similar in all audited institutions. It is normal for more to appear there in institutions where there are more employees, it is normal for more to appear in institutions that have significant, large financial resources. And you see that we have institutions, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence as large budget consumers in which there are a large number of employees, in which there are specific activities, etc., which appear year after year with certain observations, so to speak and which are the reason for being defined, for not giving a positive opinion. The most common number of remarks, at least so far appearing, is the question of these, I'd say, peripheral things, here's the condition to say,... conditionally. Expending the team. That's what we write about year after year. It's very simple to solve, and when we solve who has, who doesn't, how many have, it's over. Standance ends and it can be resolved in five minutes, if we want to solve it. Here, there is a concrete proposal, you have a proposal for one of the Commission's conclusions to go into the draft legislative proposal, so to the Council of Ministers, to stand by these issues. So, and I agree with my colleague Domazet, when you say you, and I said right away, that there should be no dilemmas, 600 thousand marks for an institution to spend on the team to really sound bombistic. And that's a lot of money, it's more than half a million marks for someone to spend some teams somewhere. And now if we want to dissipate the demagogue then we say it is, and the average minimum pension of 400 marks, so when you multiply it times how much, you really get angry. Now, nowhere is the standard for that team prescribed. A colleague, Vrankić, told me earlier that we are probably in line, when the state level of government, this is what we are discussing, cheaper..., 7% of the total budget costs defence, intelligence, the security sector, legislative power, executive power, judicial authority, etc. It's not much, by my standards, but, uh, if we want the right standards, then 25 we have to figure them out together, so we're going to say, well, it is a lot and 7%, are we going to 3%, are we going to 2, how much? But let's say. Then we will no longer have the right to investigate whether, I don't know, it is appropriate for certain items to be spent for certain purposes or not to spend the corresponding funds. That's how I see our role in Parliament. So she's supposed to be the result now. If the review was working well, if the Committee was doing a good job, we can talk, as long as this session is going on, and we won't be able to deal with this issue for as long as we've been in the Committee and in the audit, because we've had a few thematic sessions of a few hours each of these questions. I don't think we're gonna spend that much time here, and we can mostly look at this on the surface, mostly. And here, depending on if he's at the Foreign Ministry, if he's not a member of my party, so we're going to train a little tough on him and we're going to forget about someone from another party, etc. So I'm calling, first of all, the College to consider the possibility of a future way of considering these audit reports. That's one thing. The second thing, all of you, I normally call on you to accept, with the support of the Committee on Finance and Budgets, the Report of this Committee and, as all these conclusions proposed by the Committee of the House of Representatives. And what's happened so far as the problem, I'm asking, I suggest, here's what I don't know if we should, because it's already contained in these conclusions here, to take a little care of the implementation of the conclusions that we make ourselves. I think that's gone by now. And if we establish control over the implementation of our own conclusions, I'm sure that the effects of the overall work will be much greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18631	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Borislav Bojić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18632	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests. So, at the very beginning, I would also like to say that I would like to commend the way this report was drawn up by the Commission itself. So this is one of the few reports that has been very reviewed and in which one can truly, who wants to see the situation in this area, that it is just so thoroughly, from all aspects, and therefore one commendation to the Commission itself. I think this type of methodology should be applicable to other committees. Given that we have a lot of criticism here today, I am taking the opportunity to praise, therefore, the Police Support Agency, the Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts, the Anti-Doping Control Agency of BiH and the Service for Foreign Affairs, which have a positive report. I believe that the example of these institutions will be followed by those institutions that have reserve reports or negative reports. To the truth of the will, the gro of these reserve reports, with a certain kind of recommendation, and what should be specifically pointed out, and the Commission itself, therefore through the very conclusions among other things says – The House of Representatives re-indebted the Council of Ministers, the House of Representatives re-inquires the Council of Ministers or I don't know, the next point – is re-indebted by the Council of Ministers, etc. So we will have a situation in which we will practically repeat these qualifications in continuity when it comes to audits that have practically in the last three years one and the same qualification, in terms of these reserves. The question of the responsibility of those to whom we draw conclusions is raised. Finally, it will become unambiguous that the 26 Parliamentary Assembly re-establishs one of these same conclusions without having any responsibility for the realization of these conclusions. The question and sanctions are raised, ultimately, by those who do not carry out the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly. What do they have to do, to carry out the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly except, here's to say, some moral obligation to do so. Of course, there is also the responsibility of the Parliamentary Assembly. I do not want those people sitting here in this House to be held responsible, and not some other who are in charge of the affairs of the Parliamentary Assembly, to be represented in public. I think that the full clear determination and determination of the responsibilities of the persons responsible for the situation in a particular institution should be accurately and specifically located, as counterpart Kunić says. And I especially want to support that part of the discussion and the debates that spoke about the lack of legislation, i.e. the legislative framework for resolving certain issues. Well, in the end and the first finding relating to the Parliamentary Assembly, it is said – there are no concrete activities in the adoption of the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs and delegates, etc., etc., through amendments and additions and so on. Who's responsible for this? I do not believe that the Parliamentary Assembly, I guess the Council of Ministers should have prepared that kind of proposal, and that this kind of law should be referred to the procedure. If we were to really objectively write down the situation and put these audit reports into function of improving the situation, then we should start from the Parliamentary Assembly, in turn. In view of all this that has been established with regard to the Parliamentary Assembly, it is certain that who are therefore responsible for the implementation of certain activities can come into play. In this regard, I would like to say that, above all, as an MP and I believe that a large number of people sitting here are asking what kind of responsibility there is for all those qualifications that are directed towards the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It really doesn't stand that way. In public, it's completely different. As soon as mentioned, the mention of various issues, privileges, belongings is mentioned, there are parliamentarians in the first place. And what's the real point? That's what we didn't come up with through the analysis either, nor did we ever point to that kind of question. So, I think we should first start with the Parliamentary Assembly itself, and of course from all those institutions that are here among other things, when the reserve reports are established by the audit and, in any case, to go to responsible persons. For example, when it comes to the responsibility itself, I wouldn't say that political people, so let's say. and the ministers, in my opinion, are now, of course, just my opinion, to bear responsibility for financial, financial responsibility in that they are political figures which do not have to be professional figures, they do not have to be financiers, they do not have to be lawyers, they are persons who perform political functions and it would be good to keep that sphere of policy, and that, in terms of financial responsibility, they have, I do not know, secretaries of the ministries, therefore authorised persons who, among other things, are professional people who are able to comply with the law of the prescribed obligation and ultimately to answer for the non-compliance of such obligations and to suffer sanctions. Otherwise, if we are making political responsibilities, that the minister is responsible, that he is responsible, I don't know, the President of Parliament, etc. We'll have a political story and we won't have a realisation of the implementation of these activities. Therefore, my opinion, of course, which can in part be a suggestion here, is that it would be a good financial responsibility to put into the hands of professional people who can show what it is in accordance with law, regulation, decision and so on, rather than a political figure called Minister or President of Parliament. What does he have to be a financial or legal expert? He doesn't have to, he's not obliged to be. So politics belongs to all areas of society, so let the spheres of society manage what they need to manage, and let the responsible persons respond because some decision is not made in accordance with some regulation. Well, you don't think I'm going to answer 27 for everything that's been established for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly? I don't know what my responsibility is about any of this. I don't know what the events here are. I don't know how to go from one to the next. And I feel responsible for doing nothing. And what can I do? I can work on the law-making issue, of course, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. It's my obligation and to simply make my own commitments. I agree with colleagues who talked about standards. It is indeed a matter of special attention to whom. The question of standards, I'm not going to repeat what my colleagues said, but it's something that's important, for the simple reason that we start from this finding that the revision itself has found, it's a question of the use of the purchase of official cars, the purchase of computer equipment, the use of representation services and so on. What is a standard that can provide BiH's budget, i.e. BiH's finances or BiH's citizens, let's start with the rolling stock. Is our standard BMW and Audi or our standard might be a shame, maybe Fiat. I don't know, but I think there's a lot of BMWs, there's a lot of Audis, there's a lot of escort vehicles, and we don't have a standard for that kind. It seems to me that we look more like Bundestag when it comes to rolling stock, and when it comes to the financial situation, when it comes to citizens we often talk about, the situation isn't exactly that. Can we afford a BMW, an Audi, that sort of thing? And can we afford to accompany every cantonal, entity, civil servant who, I say, cruises around BiH wherever you go? I'm recently, whenever I come across, there's always some rotation. I don't know what he's like, who's such a tall man? Well, we should get these MPs sitting here, they're chosen by the people, one vehicle at a time, so we can all turn on the rotations, and then we can cruise around BiH with a variety. Look at the situation in the neighbouring states. How many vehicles you have escorted, for example. in Croatia or Serbia? Up to a dozen vehicles. And how much do we have in BiH? I don't know, every little canton seems to have so many escorted vehicles. It's the cost, is it the state's money? Yes, of course. So, this kind of standardisation, what kind of cell phone, what kind of equipment can we afford? It's a matter of standard, and in any case I support those who spoke about standardizing what should be afforded to those who work in the state service. Of course, when it comes to the team itself, the purchase of official mobile phones and so on. And finally, to conclude, I don't take too much time either, the question of legitimacy, the question of accountability, the question of responsibility, starting here from the Parliamentary Assembly, the question of the debate of our parliamentarians who are sitting, are we ready to accept the qualifications that are addressed to the Parliamentary Assembly and we are sitting in it. Because this type of qualification isn't going to be sent to the officers, it's going to be to us sitting here. So we need to take certain measures in terms of the adoption of legal legislation and, of course, that we are seeking the responsibility of all those who do not act in relation to the findings identified by the audit, in all institutions. Finally, I am taking another opportunity to commend those who have had positive audit reports and I thank the Commission, although I am not convinced that this type of attitudes relating to duties, such as these, I will repeat once again, the Council of Ministers is again in debt, and I have watched the findings in the last three years are completely identical. And if we continue this way again, we will have inefficient, therefore, state service in terms of rational spending of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18633	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dragan Vrankić, discussion. Here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18634	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. Here, I want to make my contribution to this debate, and I will try not to repeat myself with my colleagues. First of all, I want to support this report, which is very good with all these conclusions and also the report from our Commission that has given great pain in this work. When it comes to controlling the spending of public funds, then I think it is something that is of zero value and that no parliament should be divided into position and opposition, that is what is below the line. And I think we all have to have equal homework and equal responsibility to it, and I think it feels less today. When it comes to this Report, I would disagree with that finding to stagnate or to have a slightly worse trend that may in some way be statisticalally derived, and statistics can often lead us in the wrong direction. If we think of those we had the chance, and the vast majority here had the opportunity to monitor the work and establish the audit itself, then let's say in the last 7-8 years we've seen one big progress. I remember the budget when it was on about 15-20 pages, now it's about 300 or maybe when we collect everything around it there are 500 pages of reports, which have now come into one, which would say the barrel made of them, where we can see it transparently and see it all and I think it's certainly one big progress. But what I want to make a small contribution to this whole thing is that when it comes to fighting abuse, then the best mechanism is the system. If you have a system, then you can do anything. A top expert in an unsettled society means nothing, in an orderly society an average man can give a lot if he is in the right place and works in the right way. Now that we see your recommendations that you have made, and what our Commission has proposed for the good part in the operational sense, then we see that these are something that we cannot transfer just as simple a responsibility to budgetary users. We haven't adopted the budget. Which is the fault of the budget user of these 70 and something he has. Well, then we didn't bring a strategic plan, so we're not this, we're not that. And in the end, we see that it's an awful commitment that should be made, standing right on those who are most responsible. It stands on this House and stands on the Council of Ministers. And so, we didn't do pre-work to create a system that would do this exactly. Why was our trend at first good? Because we went from the bottom of the elemental stuff, so we could all sort it out a little bit, and budget users solve it, and now we've come to the crucial things where we're supposed to be uniquely working on the whole system, on the whole, the whole level of the state, and then we're getting into this phase of standardisation. Of course, when we come in that we don't have standardisation then we've done, I like to say, with every budget user one... He's got his money and he's acting alone, making rules, users as he wants, and then you have that, I don't know, someone's wasting their phones this much, so much. Make your own internal rule and you can't make any comments because that's how he wrote it. In another neighbouring budget user, I don't know, you have two cars with the same number of employees, only a minister drives and maybe someone else by it, and in the other one you have 10 cars and drives, I don't know, to the boss of someone standing down. That's what people see and it creates reactions, and then, if it's making something called evil blood, and then it's starting to agree, it's fighting, it's being impatient, and it's not supposed to be, because I actually think that's where it's supposed to be solved in this systematic way. What I particularly think is that we should continue to insist on this part when it comes to impact review. If we see, we're saying, here's my colleague Lozančić through our dialogue when he was there, I don't know, a budget of what it is, we know how complex the state is, what the ingenuity of the state is, not getting into that part, it's relatively how much the state budget is for 22, 23 thousand people, it can be big it can be small. If we're looking at how much we've made, it's big for me. What was the effect in 29 2012? It's big for me. We didn't do what I thought we were supposed to do. And in that power plant, in that concept of things, it's too high. And if we go back to 22,000 people, if we go back to the Department of Defense that has 10,000 people, if we go back to diplomacy, all together we have, it's not exactly a big budget. And then we go when we don't have a standard, so we say, I don't know, Norway doesn't have a car at all. Well, of course there is no car because it has an agency, a service with which it has signed a contract that carries all needs, let's say for Parliament, for the government, etc. So there's cost but there's no car, all the same, so that's different things, and it comes down to the same thing, so the second approach that's done here. And I wouldn't want one way for us to go, when especially the reputation of the state, we've all had opportunities to travel, to come guests, you'll agree with me, we're the most miserable. When we get here, there's two or three of us coming, we're going to get together so little. But I've been in institutions for a long time, so I don't know if the Ministry is coming from any country, because I was a minister, first comes the predecessor. You know, the predecessor comes in the day before, so get everything ready, it's 5-6 people, then it's not till tomorrow they're coming. And I'm just going to mention something that's not comparable to BiH, when one president of a large country came to this region, here in neighbouring countries, that's when 2,000 people were on the ground two months earlier in the country. And to us, if we're wasteful, if we're like this, we're like this. Of course, if I'm a lifesaver, there must be control and one brand to be spent, but we have to be aware that it has everything in every sense. And here, in the end, to be something much shorter, I also support recommendations that were also revisions and I mean what my colleague Šepić said, he can also get support, that he's on to what we should do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18635	I believe it's a false allegation. Dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18636	I'll do it for a while, here's what my colleague Vrankić mentioned. I completely agree with everything he said, less and more, that all of these discussions are on the same page today, no matter where they came from. But here is the review of the impact mentioned here, and the chairman of the Commission, who prepared the extraordinary, means this material he discussed today, he said that it is worrying that in the institutions, in some BiH institutions their effectiveness is very questionable, it is at zero level. So that's something we need to talk about. What institutions are they, if I don't know either, you'll see in those reports, in the reports of the institutions, I say, there's not a full systematization of jobs, there's a regulation, I don't know either. So you know who's going to give up his privilege today? What counterpart Vrankić was saying, now I don't know what he mentioned in Norway, there's a transport agency there. Well, it'd be better if there was an agency here to run a transport. Take a look at all those reports we have there, how many years to get for insurance, registration and car repair. Here, I guarantee 50% of this is not for repair. It's for the pocket. So, here she is present in institutions, yes, there is crime and corruption. Here is the recommendation, here is the Commission's recommendation, i.e. it will be Parliament's recommendation, I believe that it will be so, here is to unite public procurement when it comes to fuelling all BiH institutions that are in Sarajevo. And what won't be given by the chairman of the Council of Ministers? Why won't they give it to the chairman? Or I don't know, here's the College of Parliament for you to do, your service. Not you especially, but to do so, I don't know, to call a tender in Sarajevo a gas station or a fuel supply company that supplies all the institutions of BiH that operate, so we won't, if we have 30 there if we have an institution in Mostar, Banja Luka, Tuzla, they won't come, but we will for those vehicles. No, they won't, because there's no profit for those who do it there. You know, we have to speak here in a clear language when we talk about standardizing something, which is what our colleague used to say, exactly the standardization of vehicles we need to have. But I say one Institute, says the director of the foundation of the Regulation positive opinion, has the right, there is the director of the audit, has the right to spend the phone of 500 marks. The other institute, according to their regulations, has 200 marks. It may be a lot of this, but that 500 might not be, but it should be there, right, let's see what they've done. Or as I mentioned, I don't know, 100,000 marks of lodgings, living quarters, of which 1/3 abroad. So let's see what's the effect of all these trips, etc. So we here have to talk about concrete things and be determined to conduct this and eventually sanction the one, is who won't do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18637	Thank you. Next discussion, Nermin Purić. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18638	I thank the Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all together. Discussions on the BiH Institutions' Audit Office's report are always interesting, as it seems the only time we have the opportunity to look at the right picture of the situation in BiH institutions. I, like other colleagues, want to thank the Office for the Audit and our Commission for doing a good job and for giving us the opportunity, so to make a real insight into the situation of things in the financial aspects of BiH institutions' work. Unfortunately, I must say that as some colleagues agree with the conclusion that the current model of the revision does not fulfil its function, we do not question that the model of the revision applied in BiH is in line with European practice, so it is modern, etc., but it is obvious that in BiH it does not obtain the results of what we all expect. It should not, of course, be blamed by the Audit Office, but it should certainly be called upon to give us some possible changes in the legislation, in another regulation, which would allow, to say, more effective work and potentially more severe penalties for those who do not follow the recommendations of the revision. Unfortunately, we've turned this whole story into a form-by-form thing, and I'm convinced that the audit officers at this point would be able to do 60% of every report for the next year that will come before us, so we'd be able to sort of predict what that report will be. The fact is that those who spend the most money least respect legal regulations in this country. Among these institutions is the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the question is who we can send a message of how to behave if, therefore, we ourselves are not able to arrange things in a way that they are in line with good practice. I will support the conclusions of our Commission, and I will also support the conclusion of counterpart Šepić, who is asking for the Council of Ministers to commit to, within 60 days, refer to the parliamentary procedure of the BiH Fiscal Responsibility Act, and I believe that we should take these small but significant steps in the future, so this time at least we have available in this mandate, to try to create a little better assumptions that the next audit reports, in order to be significantly different from these so far. Thank you very much. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18639	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18640	The respected chairman, distinguished guests, especially the main auditors with their associates, representatives of 4 or 2-3 institutions, does not matter, colleagues and colleagues, the right hand side is also poorly filled. I will speak contrary to many colleagues who have said today. What is the meaning of this session and what are we going to achieve with all these discussions so far? Now let me say that this doesn't apply to the chief auditor and his associates, you've done a great job, but here, I thank you and a sentence – a wasteful job. You've done a wasted job because nobody cares about this, nobody's alive. This will neither listen to those he commits, nor to the Internet because the session is being broadcast and he won't watch this for 40 seconds tonight in all the television diaries. I ask the key question – what is the difference between those who have spent their money rationally and those who have spent their charity? What difference does it make when those who spent their lives know that no one alive is going to take them away and I've been asking them the same questions for seven years? I've been taking in other jobs, some thieves. But for the past seven years, I haven't seen anyone from Parliament or from this larger building taken with handcuffs because he was spending people's money. So I spent seven years repeating and standing parliamentary questions with the Council of Ministers, citing names. How is it possible that the secretary has a paid cell phone of 450 marks? How is it possible for an assistant minister to have a service car available 24 hours a day? Not daily but nightly for cafes and fun, going to sea with family, etc., etc. So, and these, I won't be carrying criminal charges, neither will the chief auditor. And where it is today, our institutions are here to at least listen to this, not to me what I'm going to say. They need to wonder what they did to those who spent so much money. So I asked questions, I don't know how many numbers anymore. So one good anecdotes, then presided, I really appreciate all my colleagues, dear colleague Belkić, was a member of the College, and I so meaningfully, too, I say. Mr. Belkić thinks that I was wrong because we were at the point of parliamentary issues, says Mr. Jovičić now are parliamentary issues. No, no, I'm asking a reward question, not a parliamentary, rewarding question, so that someone can name me institutions as many as there are in BiH first. Well, today we heard the same thing, the parliamentary majority. Well, there must be a majority, because the state would be paralyzed if there wasn't a parliamentary majority. Here, the SNSD is in the parliamentary majority, but most of all it struggles not to build up these worthless institutions. The Agency, not to mention, and they had a report, which sent a report to this House, we adopted the minutes of the 8th session with the 7th. At the 7th we adopted from the 6th, the 6th, the 5th, we adopted that we didn't have a quorum, the 4th and the 3rd, but we're asking the Ministry of Finance for an additional 100,000 marks for, I don't know, some ex post expenses. And now I'm responsible, right, as an MP for such nebuliss and nonsense, and no one has seen that agency director live from our MPs. He's not even on the Internet, I'm looking for him on the Internet, I can't find him, there's no picture of him on the Internet. Now, that's this country and the audit reports. Well, what I did a long time ago, I like to speak in people's language, not for the sake of these journalists, they're not going to pass it on, they're making a joke.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18641	No microphone 32
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18642	So I know a fellow chairman, this fits all of us. But this is today a session that has been lost, 74 reports on the system "grandmother combs, house burns". There's no more grandma here, grandma's burned down, and there's no house, hello, when we're gonna sober up. And I always say, who has suffered any sanctions from anyone, so these institutions of ours? Taking the state car went into the weddings and knocked him out. And now he's at work and he hasn't been fired. And he's gonna crucify me tonight and say, "Look, that messenger over there bought a new tie, this tie has three or four years, bought a new tie and paid him 7,000 marks. Listen to 7,000 marks. First they lie, here's the public telling a lie. Well, then they'll say, the MPs there are thieves and they'll never get away with it. And these thieves just doing this, spending, arching this budget, none of you fellow dearly saw them live. I'm looking and I'm looking. And what was his first term, as soon as he was elected director of the agency, was to buy a car out of 86,000 marks. Imagine. And here... I support this statement by my colleague Bojić, he went somewhere to standardize the car. As he standardizes the car, he didn't buy a BMW either, because no car, because BMW seems to me 50,000-60,000 marks or that Pasat new, 86,000 marks. And I'm looking for him on the Internet for that car, I heard what the brand looks like, I couldn't find him. But I can't, away from that agency, and I don't have my driver to tell him let's take me there sick to see, in front of that building how it parks, what that car looks like, what it looks like. Now that's this country, that's these problems. I can deliver our colleagues. I don't know what kind of reports. No one here will ever answer for anything. He has a request, a parliamentary question to the Council of Ministers to streamline these institutions that are unnecessary. Foreigners came up with and we just accepted it and piled it up, to reduce the number of employees. And now as an MP, it's my fault if he bought a new desk or a computer in the Parliamentary Assembly. Well, I guess he was supposed to be out there somewhere. I don't know, I don't care. I haven't opened the register door in three years, and I'm not interested in it. But not to be in focus, all of my colleagues, this is not an alibi, all of my colleagues who have spoken are right, but Parliament cannot bear the main responsibility when our main institutions do not arrest thieves in our institutions who spend and steal. And every single one of these reports, just a little different, one year they overdid each other a little bit, so when they saw that these were not responsible for anything, they joined in. And besides, I asked you, because I have great respect for you, no matter who gives you all the papers you're looking for. Well, thieves are wiser than you, they hide it all and don't give it to you, and you will never determine who is what my neighbor would say, it's the best language of the people, don't make the Academy of Science and Art from Parliament. Who's the one who's been bailing on and on and on and on and on. And now, before the end and this calendar year and the end of my mandates, I will discuss what our auditors had already discussed in June, in July, and all the media then announced, who was where he was spending, who was to say too much, who was stealing, who was stealing. And now I, instead of this December thinking about how we're going to adopt the budget and if we can cut these thieves' money, there's no proposal. There's no suggestion for any official who's been stealing money back. I can't commit him, he can be bound by the SIPA and the D.A.'s office, but neither are they, and they don't listen to this on the Internet. So then I asked, Mr. Chairman, the thematic session, if it takes four sessions, to see these directors of the agencies once in this order to sit down, although this is for others most official, but here they are sitting to see them live, so let me ask them and now I should tell Zvonko, my colleague, Jurišić is not the administration, or is not the administration, or is not the administration, top economic expert Professor Domazet is the management or not the administration, Professor Kunić, from the legal point of view, all explained is management or not management. Where do I get to comment on that? But I'm asking the basic question what's the point of what they've all said and what I've wasted for 10 minutes and harassed all of you. Excuse me. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18643	Thank you. The word has an MP, Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18644	Here, to welcome you and to thank you, first of all, for the revision of this one quality report. We in the Finance and Budget Committee, believe that in all these proposals and conclusions we were unique and that there was, which in this day and age, some political parts. He would also commend these four institutions that have received a positive opinion. And I wouldn't take up much of your time, as my predecessor said, I think it would be good, that is, to suggest one conclusion that the House of Representatives is asking the BiH Prosecutor's Office to launch an investigation into all the audit reports of the BiH institution in which the Office for Audit found a violation of the law. I don't want to explain, there's no policy here, we're all, or 85% of us were in power in 2012, and I think it's high time we treated ourselves responsible, and that's what we're doing today in all these discussions I think we've achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18645	Thank you. And the last of the MPs reported for discussion, MP Vesna Krstovic-Krstović-Spremo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18646	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and fellow guests, I welcome you all. I'll do it for a while, and I won't be too long since most of my previous speakers have said what has to be said. In short, I would like to say, of course, to commend the Commission's work now, because the Commission has really done everything it has to do very quickly, we have a very reviewed report, we have fine recommendations, we have, of course I would also like to commend the Secretary of the Commission, of course the Office for Audit. The audit office has done its job perfectly correctly in accordance with the law, so everything is transparent about the audit office. But I would like us, of course, to be here today discussing all of this, meaning the audit reports, to practically have a psychological phenomenon that I would call rainy, which means in the translation from French already seen. Every year it means the same way we face the same problems with the audit reports. We have certain, so rights as MPs to discuss whether a report is positive, whether it's negative, to praise positive, to scold negative reports, to sort of get by. However, what it does not say and what we should actually say as MPs of this Parliament, and that is how, with all this, we should actually write something that does not say, or say something that does not say. And that's how we actually introduce the spirit of savings as a model of behavior in BiH institutions. I'll tell you something, when I was visiting the German Parliament, which impressed me as a Parliamentarian. So, powerful Germany and powerful, means the representatives of such an economic power when they address their voters and when they address their colleagues, they usually address them in this way – we are a poor country, i.e. Germany, under 34 quotes, so we have to keep saving to keep our country moving forward. We parliamentarians here and the other elected officials of all these BiH institutions have no such... We just take it that way, right, chaoticly, there's this one here, there's this one, there's a suspicion of corruption here, so we have a system of public procurement, so that's not good either. But we have to really get along, so that's the spirit of saving it. I think it is best to achieve it in a way that through the internal control system, means, when planning the funds to this spirit of savings, we give one big item and we say, this institution will in this way, according to the proposal of its employees who know best how and how to save the funds, put it in writing. Because it's very important. No Niko will know better than those who work here in that institution. On the other hand, I'd like to say that here's when we always discuss legislation, when we discuss standards, which Professor Domazet very well noticed, every year when these discussions happen on these audit reports, we'll have a flood of our media that will say MPs are corrupt, the government is corrupt, the auditors are corrupt, they're all corrupt. And it goes without any meaning of control, their statements go public,...in public indeed, because we have people who live with 300 marks on the edge of existence. Well, imagine how shockingly shocking it is for a pensioner when you tell him the BiH institutions have eaten the people's money that everyone has somehow singled out, he's struggling to survive that month, and there he sees some terrible means going away and doesn't know how they're leaving. As one citizen of BiH, of course, he can have his own threshold of patience. And of course the media will be very nice sometimes to abuse and say so they're all thieves. Well, we're not all thieves. It must be said exactly how, where and how, how are we going to do that? Of course it's legitimate. There is no justice and no rule of law unless there is a regulated legislation. I'm convinced that even the Nijemac out there who swear on their savings aren't even better people than we are, they're certainly not even... so maybe they're not even more educated, but they're smarter in the sense that they know there's no rule of law without legal legislation. Anything that can be legally put into legal legislation, to help strengthen the rule of law, should be supported, of course, by standards. Because if we say someone spent so much money, if we spent that money for some useful purposes, well, it should mean the state, we'll say some more. But if something non-transparent has gone to some black funds, if public procurement has profited from various people of questionable quality, then we really have to ask ourselves as Parliament as far as that. I think we're really going to make one of our contributions if we use ourselves means as much as possible legislation and as best as possible by standardizing all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18647	Thank you. The final discussions on this subject are also held by MP Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18648	I thank the chairman. I really think that everything that could be said is said and I won't comment, of course with just one comment, because when you listen, you would say that Parliament's absolute impotence, which of course is not true. This is about financial aspects, or at least someone who would watch this side-by-side would say that the budget of these institutions brings someone else, not us. So all those who have objections to some institutions are waiting for the budget so they will also have the opportunity to express their support, or not support, or I don't know, from the aspect of what the audit report is treating. But it's a little unfair to attack institutions today, so we have to be principled if we're talking about individual ones, and the next few days we're looking for more money for them. So whoever falls into that 35 trap will have to get out of it himself, because Parliament is not quite powerless when it comes to these things and there is a way that, where someone really feels that they can react, that this is concrete and it reacts. Because if you're doing the same thing every year, or we're giving the same money, and we're not saying it's being spent irrationally, then it's not just that, I mean, there's us. And as far as Parliament itself is concerned, it also notes that political pressure is being put on this Parliament so that it is not being strengthened in this sense and that it can react. I have talked about it on several occasions, and I think it is clear to me that these are the centres that are being held on parliamentarians and this way, and that is why I will also dedicate the final part of the discussion to it from one particular aspect. The audit gave an opinion with a reserve for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and gave an opinion with a reserve of the Directorate for Direct Taxation. In the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, what we do not know is that there have been no disciplinary proceedings here, no criminal proceedings, if there have been any minor violations, and that we have received an opinion with the reserve, it is known on what it is founded on, and in the Directorate for indirect taxation you have arrests, you have investigations by the Prosecutor's Office, you have heavy accusations which are measured by dozens of millions of marks, and you have put those two institutions in the same plane. How and in what way did you come up with the same observations and you put it on the same scale and did you ever respond to institutions where you gave positive opinions, and after you these institutions that we often rightly or without, unwarrantedly attack, then the other institutions found heavy criminal acts and arrested people. The audit never looked back on that fact. What the auditors did to determine that the situation was extra good in a positive opinion, and then some officials ended up being arrested for heavy evasion and abuse. We've never considered this aspect, and I think it's your turn to answer that question. And since you've come to very, very positive reports in these institutions or how you treat them when you compare them to institutions, there's a level of socially dangerous action, there's a level of damage after all, there's financial amounts at the end. It's not the same amount as 1,000 marks and 100,000 dollars, that kind of social danger would have to be built somehow. And that is why I think it is incorrect for Parliament to have an opinion with the reserve, and that institutions that have been reading for hundreds, that is their obligation, and I know that their increased responsibility is, but at the same time I know that much greater damage to society than abuses in these institutions than in some others, including Parliament itself. It's clear to me that there's something wrong. We do not have the mechanism to then, and in this we do not make any special contribution, to consider and compare the auditor's reports and to compare the prosecution's reports and to compare the judgments made by the auditors with the positive opinions. That way we never talked, but since we're looking all through, which would be said through the needle ears, I'd like to start once and from that aspect to see how things are on that side. I compared these two institutions, because I don't think it's real, it's not fair and it's not real, not because it's what this Parliament wants, but because you have facts that happened beyond our will, past our knowledge and beyond our reaction, and when you compare those two, you'll see that it's incomparable and I'd like an explanation for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18649	I conclude the debate when it comes to addressing MPs and, in accordance with my opening remarks, I refer to the main auditor, here is that in business time, it explains certain things. Here you go. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18650	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm really not gonna take a lot of your time, a few minutes. It's mostly here, here's almost everyone you've discussed, which is particularly nice to me, so you've all contributed to improving and implementing these recommendations. You've all mostly supported these recommendations, they're also supported by the Finance and Budget Committee. So, from that point of view, we're very pleased. There's been a lot of talk here about the need, in addition to what we've discussed here today and discussed, that it might be necessary to strengthen, reverse the course, strengthen the efficiency review. And you're right, that's where we fully agree and we've been working on that background for almost a year, a year and a half. Here we now have at the stage of producing 6 audit reports from the field of efficiency review, so that they will be fully on the background of both these reports and on the background of what one of you has been saying is that you need from these reports that are characterised as problematic further elaborated through the efficiency review. Therefore, the efficiency review will provide answers to many of these issues, however, for the review of efficiency, as is already known, we have often talked about this, I think that today there have been discussions, and it is necessary and very studioy to design and make strategic development plans, set clear measures or goals, because otherwise, the review of efficiency will turn into some wasteful hints. Therefore, it is necessary to implement all these recommendations that are given here first. In this way, I think a great contribution will be made to improving financial discipline. I fully agree with those who have talked today about not being all that black, because if a continuity audit is observed, and we have to look at it that way, given that it is relatively young activity in BiH, there are huge shifts. And the truth is, and what the esteemed Professor Domazet has been saying, the revision is constantly, and in that sense standards are being updated, constantly moving that threshold of demand, so that this year we've made some recommendations that we haven't made in our previous years, such as a recommendation relating to strategic planning and recommendations relating to the role of institutions in the fight against corruption, planning, so a plan of activity. And such recommendations are approximately at the level of all institutions near 100. Therefore, when comparing digits and numbers, we must keep in mind what the requirements are, what has been revised, what is the way of causing them, etc., etc. I think there was also talk here about the fact that it is quite clear that the revision cannot and should not be a repressive body, I think that Mr. Džaferović spoke about it, but that it is necessary in cases where there is an association or which is clear that it is a criminal act to inform law enforcement authorities. And the Revision Act, in that sense, has one provision, Article 19, which states that if indications of significant violations of the law have been observed that the Audit Office will inform the law enforcement authorities. In this regard, the Office has also acted on several occasions and this year raised such a question, i.e. informing the law enforcement authorities, including at the Directorate for Direct Taxation, which Mr Kalabić spoke of, on the circumstances in the review of efficiency, management of confiscated goods where we established and found that the mass of stolen vehicles was devastated, stolen, etc., practically law enforcement bodies are familiar. In some other cases, too, in that, and some other institutions, the issue was raised in accordance with Article 19. In fact, when we talk about opinions, why the opinion with the reserve here, why the opinion there, is difficult to compare. There are three standardised opinions, there are no 20, if there were 20 there would be differences in both the positive ones and the ones with the reserve, so 3 are standardised opinions. And a qualified opinion does not necessarily mean a violation of the law, does not necessarily mean abuse, because if it meant the Office would raise the question in accordance with Article 19, i.e. It would inform the authorities of the 37 law enforcement. So, missing certain procedures, missing rules, not enough transparency in work, etc., etc. On these occasions, standards require and we have to do so, we cannot implement differentiated standards, they are unique, our tests, our review questionnaires, our auditors and teams on the ground, they have unique tests and they have to act in accordance with such adopted procedure. And we are insisting exactly for all institutions that they have adopted procedures for all the rules of consumption, which has been a lot of talk here today. Here, not to mention, there have been a lot of speeches about this, just to look at the fact that the Office of Audit has acted in accordance with the conclusion, I think Mr Belkić said in this context, that the Office of Audit has acted in accordance with the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly and considered the situation regarding the amendments to the Law on Audit and informed you of this, I think Mr Belkić will, within the framework of your parliamentary question. Therefore, the Audit Office is on the view that the current legal framework is quite adequate, quite sufficient and provides opportunities for the smooth work of the Audit Office. We have a modern, good Revision Act and we are on the point that it is not necessary to amend this law, and especially with the potential tendency to install in this law and what does not belong to the revision by location, i.e. the repressive measures. We think so, but it is up to you, it is yours, of course, to act within your mandate and authority and possibly amend the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18651	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on points 9 to 80. Before we move to point 81, I suggest we bring together the discussion of points 81 and 82. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary general majority and entity majority and that we have accepted this proposal. So we'll unite the debates on points 81 and 82. Ad. 81. Report on the financial audit of the 2012 Budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institution, material of the BiH Ad Institution Audit Office. 82. Report on the implementation of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012, BiH Presidency material I'm opening a debate. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18653	I may spend even less than a minute, and as for the need to amend the Office Act, the revision will obviously need to be discussed further and further analyzed. So, we have a 2012 Budget Report with an opinion on the reserve. So, a bad situation that can be linked to what we've been talking about for a little while, about those 60-ak institutions, etc. Why is it an opinion with the reserve? Because Budget wasn't brought in in time, and 38 recommendations don't go through before. So, nothing new, which Bojić would say is once again warning, rewarning, etc. It is also very interesting to see that 67 institutions in 2012 carried out, as it is said..., that is, restructure, so combinations of items, here I spent, did not spend, transferred, etc. So 67 institutions have done it in total of 12 million, and the rest has been neutralised by 41 million. So that's what he's saying, and some other elements that say it's not well or planned, 30 million are not planned at all and it's achieved etc. So it's my opinion, let's say I vote against this report because I believe that institutions have neither been properly planned nor executed. As regards the Commission's conclusions on the audit report, very briefly. So they're common, standard, and they probably couldn't even formulate differently. The first conclusion says it is asked by the Council of Ministers to examine, analyse the audit report, etc. We have in addition their comments, answers to recommendations, etc. So, now ask them to analyse something else, etc., if they haven't figured it out and accepted these recommendations by now, they won't be able to take it from now on. It was in September when this correspondence was conducted. And this conclusion, due to this, is why I came to the most, says that the most urgent thing in the parliamentary procedure is to deliver the budget for 2014. He's not even on the pier. But we made one situation, if you remember the discussion of the Budgetary Law, we said that temporary funding could be done by March 31st, no problem. However, I, I point out this for a simple reason, I believe that you have heard information in the media etc., that the IMF has told BiH governments that if they don't bring Budget by December 09 that there is no tranche a month until after the adoption. So there are budget beneficiaries who have not paid two, three salaries, etc. Assuming if we don't bring the Budget by 31.12, that is, by this deadline, so we bring it to 31.12. there's no tranche until the end of January, etc., etc. But here, I hope that participants and parliamentarians of course know about this and that they are taking urgent and effective measures and that we are likely to have a budget on Monday, Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18654	Are you talking about the 2014 Budget?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18655	I'm talking about the 2012 report recommendations, read the recommendations. Here, and I'm done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18656	I thank Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Is anyone else answering for word? No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 83rd point of the agenda, Ad. 83. Commission report on Efforts to reach agreement on Senad Šepić's proposal to conclude the debate on Amendment Law Proposal on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH There's no discussion here. 39 We move to the 84th point of the agenda, Ad. 84. The fifth report on the implementation of measures to improve the conditions of business in agricultural production and the food industry in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Final Report, Council of Ministers' material
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18659	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, since it's a very important report I'd look back on just a few sentences on the above. In fact, when it comes to the report itself, it is technically well done in the sense that it really does show the situation in the Agriculture and Rural Development Sector, and gives a review of 25 different measures that the Ministry has taken so far. The ministry has adequately taken certain measures when it comes to co-operation with competent state and entity ministries and institutions responsible for the problem of agriculture and rural development. We have made progress when it comes to measures to protect domestic production, when it comes to trying to form, or establishing bilateral links with other countries to which we can place our products. So, we tried to find alternative markets and sign bilateral contracts regarding the certification of our products. But I don't think that this report has been sufficiently apostrophealed by the crucial problems that exist today in BiH and are related to agriculture, rural development and exports. In fact, there's a lot more trouble and congestion. First, in addition to trying to find alternative markets for the export of our products, it is not easy to find alternative markets when our most significant foreign trade partners are CEFTA countries, EU countries. Secondly, I think it's a little bit of a talk, and we've been apostrophe of the problem until a few months ago. The fact is we can't export, we can't export our products of plant and animal origin from 01.07. For a time, it was media-exposed and now it's as if this problem is crucial to all of us... in the seal. [[Common discussion]] Can I move on?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18661	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18662	Okay, thank you. ... set up an adequate system of control... of food and safety and assessment of our risks. We've adopted the Hygiene Package, but we haven't passed a set of laws. For a long time, we've been talking about the Law on Agriculture, the Food Act, the Veterinary Act. We don't have a single mechanism that would allow coordination. Unfortunately, there's no one from the Council of Ministers, there's only Mr. Counselor of the Chairman. So, we're going to get a second month's control from... we're going to get the controls we need to determine if we have that system. We don't have 40 systems, we won't be able to export food. So we have no certainty that the food produced in BiH and placed on the domestic market is safe. And so that's the biggest problem. And that is not my subjective position on this issue, that is the European Commission's position and the latest report on the European Commission. We can't pull the IPA funds either. So we haven't established an IPARD structure, a harmonising structure. When it comes to the funds allocated through our entity agriculture ministries, we have no standard. So basically incentives are assigned on some ad hoc basis without any standards, without any control. And that's the problem, because we ourselves, so entities and we state, so we have a problem, that is, we're breaking the State Aid Act ourselves that we've brought. When it comes to domestic production measures, building protection mechanisms, so the question arises that we cannot find,... the question is whether the problem is that we cannot find several thousand marks and that we financially help and operationalise the work of a commission that should monitor the cross-border traffic of our goods, which should determine the problems that exist in BiH's agriculture and rural development, which should propose measures. So I'm talking about some system access and we don't have any inputs, no systems, no coordination at all. I have repeatedly referred to initiatives and certain proposals and issues to the Ministry and to this and the Council of Ministers on Agriculture and Rural Development, and the answer is that there are no harmonised views. We might have more consistency if we knew how much we really lost when it came to financial resources. What I do know is that in the last four years we have had 20 million euros available from IPA funds that we have not withdrawn. We also had 5m euros for rural development this year, and those funds were blocked because we couldn't agree. And not to say what the problem is is that the uncertainty of our citizens because they don't first know what food they eat, what quality it is, whether we have met standards without talking about our dairy producers, dairy products, eggs and others, who lose hundreds of millions of funds because they can't export. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18663	Thank you. Is this a display error for these two MPs or have they signed up? A fellow Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18664	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues, all present in the O.R. I see there's a man in front of the promoter, so I'm interested in some things, just so we don't get into some technical mess. Now, he says, here in the introduction, given that this is a report and that we must declare this report, the introduction says – the plan for the protection of domestic production in the context of the CEFTA Agreement was submitted to the Council of Ministers for consideration in May 2013. After the adoption of the document, an action plan for the implementation of these measures will be adopted in accordance with the competences of the competent institutions. From what I see and from what it says in this entire text, because I read this in detail, I see that this plan has not been adopted by the Council of Ministers. Am I right? _________(?) Yes, it is. 41 Well, that doesn't say, in this material it doesn't say. And this Plan of Activity, here I see it now delivered to us here in front of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, I want to ask – whether we are going to make it clear today, means whether it is foreseen in this report that we should declare this plan of activity to protect domestic production, because also in this introductory part, that I am not reading, says that we should plead as Parliament. So it wouldn't be bad for Parliament to plead that way. I don't see why Parliament's plan to protect domestic production needs to be declared in the first place, I think it's strictly a job of the Council of Ministers. But here's their wish, or we should make a statement, so I'm interested – is it foreseen in this report, and I'll ask you too, Mr. Chairman, whether this material implies that we make a statement about this plan of activity, means whether this is all in the package together now. That's what I'm interested in. So, there's a very complex problem, and I think that if it goes through in this House it's not what I'd say it's not what it's supposed to be, because it says in the text that the Ministry didn't, that the Ministry didn't adopt, and here's what we get now is the information that it is. But whatever it is, it's a very important thing for Parliament to make a statement about it, that it comes in some annex like this in the material, you know, it's a very serious thing. And I would have prepared myself more seriously if I had known that the ministry had thus been determined, that the Council of Ministers had determined accordingly, but I think that definitely, I agree and that we should adopt a report but without this Activity Plan. So my suggestion is to adopt it without this plan of activity, possibly that, if necessary, we adopt it at some next session later, because this is a very important thing. I don't think with one report this plan of activity shouldn't stand, it shouldn't stand like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18666	I thank Ambassador Bursać. He asked one question, but at the end of the discussion he seemed to me, and he gave an answer to what we would plead. MP Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18667	Especially briefly, it may not be like a debate, but it may be a little bit like Mrs. Martinović's replica. So I think, in fact, as far as all of these are concerned, so the attack here we haven't adopted a rural development plan, we've lost $5 million, we've lost 20 million. I wouldn't say that if we lost 5 million or 20 million, we really need to understand that rural development is a system of agriculture, we have in RS. We of course view it as our resource, of course from the Federation as our own, is it, the resource. Of course we can't talk about these rural development issues without a coordination system. Or we are coming to the initial issue, meaning through European integration, a system of coordination between these issues in order to reach the desired goal, i.e. rural development. We can't say now we've lost, I don't know, 5 million, we didn't want IPA funds because we're irresponsible, we're not irresponsible, but we need to speed up something else, speed up the coordination system so we can answer questions like this. As for all of these, so food quality issues, and of course we're coming back, and last year we discussed this, and ours, so this Food and Veterinary Agency, we don't have enough labs, we don't have enough qualified experts who can give 42, or that they're authorized to issue food quality certificates. We need to work well on this, so also in the coordination system, a very regular schedule of these laboratories throughout BiH so that we can access all possible, let's say the CEFTA Agreement, we will now turn to other markets and all others that follow European integrations in terms of agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-12-05-0.u18668	Thank you. I'm closing the discussion on the 84th agenda. We're going to 85th, Ad. 85. Review of MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović's initiative from the 55th session of the House of Representatives, held on 24.10.2013 You all got the initiative, you know what it's about. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Before we move to the 86th point, I suggest that the House declare itself to bring together the debate on points 86 to 88 of the agenda as it is a matter of giving consent to ratifying agreements and contracts. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority, that we have accepted this proposal. Ad. 86. – 88 Giving consent to ratification of the agreement
