ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16851	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear guests, please take your seats and we'll begin our work. I am opening the 53rd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies, who regularly monitor the work of our House, representatives of the media. Representatives of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH, whose reports are on the agenda, as well as BiH's chief prosecutor on item 12, were also invited to attend the session. Consideration of the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence of Security with a proposal for conclusions on the blockade of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions from 05 July to 07 July 2013. Years. I warmly welcome the present MPs and guests. The absence was justified by MPs Božo Ljubić and Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. According to the information service, 34 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As regards the amendments and addition of the session agenda, I would like to mention the following: point 3 has been reformed in accordance with Article 111(6). The Rules of Procedure, because the Constitutional Commission has requested for the second time an extension of the deadline for the delivery of the report on the proposal for a witness protection programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina – a proposal by the Council of Ministers of BiH. Point 9 has been removed from the previous agenda. The annual report by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH for 2012 because the president of the VSTV BiH has informed the House that he will not be able to attend the session due to earlier commitments. Point 14 is added to the agenda. Consider the proposal for a conclusion of the House of Representatives' Investigation Commission to identify possible irregularities and abuses and conditions at the BiH Direct Taxation Board in line with the decision of the Extended College. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. I'm saying there's no record of a discussion on the agenda. I find that the 53rd session of the House has the following 2 Agendas 1. Approval of the minutes of the 52nd session of the House of Representatives; 2. Legislative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. Declaration on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of a report on the proposal for a witness protection programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, (Law No: 01.02-02-1-20/13, of 22.04.2013) or suspending the legislative procedure; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina – MPs: Lazar Prodanović, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović and Azra Hadžiahmetović, Law No: 01-02-1-38/13, of 22.07.2013. (second reading); 5. Proposal for a law on the availability of immovable military property – Proposers: MPs of the SDP BiH Club and SBB BiH, Act No: 01-02-1-27/13, of 05.06.2013. (first reading); 6. Proposal for a law on the protection of persons who report corruption in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina –MPs : LazarProdanović , NerminaZaimović-Uzunović , AzraHadžiahmetović , VesnaKrstović-Spremo- Premo and ŠefikDžaferović , LawNo :01-02-1-39/13 , of24.07.2013 .( firstreading) ;7 . Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina –MPs : LazarProdanović , NerminaZaimović-Uzunović- Uzunović and AzraHadjiahmetovic , LawNo :01-02-1-40/13 , of25.07.2013 .( FirstReading) ; 8 / 8 Report on the impact audit carried out on thesubject :" The management of goods seized in customsprocedures" , material of the Office for the Audit of BiHinstitutions ,issue :01/4-16-1-820/13 , since16.07.2013 ;9 . TheCommission 's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Milorad Živković on the proposal for a law on the availability of immovable military property -Proposers : MEPs of the SDP BiH Club and SBBBiH , with the Opinion of the ConstitutionalCommission , whichreads :" The BiH Council of Ministers is in charge ofsending , by the end of September2013 , to the parliamentary procedure of the Law on the availability of immovable military assets and the Law on StateProperty" ;10. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of the SDA's MPs to discuss the Security State of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2012, which reads: "In the opinion of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH, in conclusion under a) to amend the text, saying: What is being done in the context of sector security and law enforcement agencies to avoid negative implications for BiH due to the participation of its citizens in wars in other countries" 11. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament of Mirsad Đugum on the debate on granting consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement on credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe Development Bank, which reads: "It is the responsibility of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs to adopt, within 90 days, the Health System Reform Strategy in BiH" 12. Opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH with a proposal for a conclusion on the blockade of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions from 05-07-06.2013, issue: 3 01-50-1-15-49/13, of 27.08.2013. (scheduled debate at the 52nd session of the House, held on 29.08.2013); 13. Consideration of the Commission's Opinion on Foreign Trade and Customs on the 2012 Agriculture Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Ministry material, issue 01,02-28-726/13, of 08.07.2013. (in accordance with the conclusion adopted at the 52nd session of the House, held on 29.08.2013); 14. Consideration of the Opinion of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to determine possible irregularities and abuses and conditions in the Office for indirect taxation of BiH, issue: 01-50-5-944-1.2/13 of 18.09.2013; 15. Selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance and the selection of one member who will assume his duties instead of a member of the Board of Directors (rank-list of candidates of the Interim Joint Commission both at home), issue: 01,02-50-14-168-8,1/13, of 29.08.2013; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement on credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe Development Bank, No 01,02-05-2-894/13, of 01.08.2013. (scheduled statement at the 52nd session of the House, held on 29.08.2013); 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in the area of the defence industry, No 01,02-05-2-904/13, of 07.08.2013; 18. Granting consent to ratify the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on international road transport, No 01,02-05-2-896/13, of 02.08.2013; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Czech Republic on international road transport, No 01,02-05-2897/13, of 02.08.2013; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the First Credit Agreement Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Raiffeisen Bank International AG, number: 01,02-05-2-898/13, of 02.08.2013; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the AIDS BiH Wat-San Invest grant – Grant Agreement (Investment Grant for municipal water and sewerage) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, issue: 01,02-05-2-899/13, from 02.08.2013. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 52nd session of the House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections? The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16853	...technically. So on page 8 below point A.10. There is a sentence that has nothing to do with this agenda point. It is probably a technical mistake, because it says – after four findings that a report on the situation in agriculture and conclusions was adopted, then a sentence was inserted – the chairman found that the opinion had not been adopted, etc. And I ask the service to look at this because it creates confusion, so there's no telling whether the information was adopted or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16854	I thank Ambassador Belkić, and I believe that until the minutes are adopted, professional services will fix this by making a statement about the minutes with this intervention. No more reports. I'm finalizing the first item of the agenda. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. MPs' questions: a) Comments on answers received There's no comment on the answers we get, we move on to a new one, or there is. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić, commenting on the response received. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16856	So, I've got two answers. One of the Ministry of Civil Affairs is related to the possibility, i.e. the inability to issue passports to displaced persons, and I must say that I have been very pleased, not only have I received an answer, but with the content of the response, because the Ministry reacted in a very correct way, so it called for the International Convention on Human Rights and instructed, in accordance with this, a letter to local institutions dealing with the issue, or institutions dealing with the issue of passports that this Convention practically obliges us as a state to provide these rights to people. And of course, later amendments and additions to the Law on Road Corrections were adopted, and this question was definitely resolved, so that man is a little encouraged by this situation with the Ministry of Civil Affairs to continue to ask questions because some and specific things are happening, not reducing, of course, the responsibility, or the efforts of the ministries to resolve matters. We received an answer, me and Mr. Džaferović, about our initiative and my question about what about this initiative regarding the analysis of the Animal Wellbeing Act. We launched this initiative in the second month of 2013, and if you looked at this answer, you will see that the position of the Ministry, or the Office of Veterinary Affairs, is that the existing legal regulation, or the existing Law is good but not applicable, and the problems remain. You saw in the Sarajevo Canton yesterday and the overlaps, if you followed the Government of Sarajevo Canton is practically on the border to declare a state of emergency in Sarajevo because of the huge appearance of dogs, etc., incidents, etc., and calls for this Law. I mean, of course we will have the opportunity on the 3rd is an scheduled and public debate concerning the initiative of the MP, counterpart Zaimović. But I've come to comment on how slow things are, and this law, it's not enough for me to find that the law is good, etc., the real question is whether we're capable of implementing such laws with high standards, i.e. with demanding financial resources. So I hope that this public debate will speed things up and I call on the 5 truly resolute ministry to deal more seriously with the reasons for not implementing the law that they claim is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16857	Thank you. Comment on the answer, MEP Azra Hadžiahemtović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16858	Thank you. Here, I will just remind myself that my question referred to whether there is a database, or a central register employed in BiH institutions with relevant data that is important for quality human resources management. And here, thanks to the Council of Ministers, I have also received an answer in which it stands – so it can be said freely that the database of all state officials or all staff in institutions... and that it is certainly not used in... human resources management in BiH institutions. And here, among other things, is that this problem could be solved – by adopting a law on the register of employees in BiH institutions. And here, let me, given the importance of registering employees in institutions and quality human resources management, initiate by the Council of Ministers to launch activities on the draft law on the register of employees in BiH institutions on the basis of a proposal that is here and said. And I must say, in the end, that I was really embarrassed that with so much international support that we have so far had in this area, in the quality management of human resources, etc., we have not taken a single step to institutionalise this and to use this matter for a more efficient system of state institutions of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16859	Thank you. Two minutes to comment there is Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16860	I thank the chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome all my colleagues and colleagues and all those present. My comment concerns the question of how much of the Council of Ministers in 2012 established draft laws, how much in the period for... compared to 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. I must say, I am very pleased with the answer, and let the Council of Ministers take a lesson in why it is such statistics. I'll just mention that in 2008, the Council of Ministers established 63 draft laws in 2009. - 67, 2010. - 30, 2011. - 24 and the reference year I took as some year where the Council of Ministers had no oscillations in its work, some political earthquakes in Parliament over the parliamentary majority and 32 draft laws. I expect this number to be higher in 2013. Why is it like this I'll probably ask the Council of Ministers through some other questions. 6 So I'm satisfied with the speed of the answer because I asked the question at the 49th session, got it at the 52nd session, but I'm not satisfied with the essence of the answer. I think this is small.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16861	Thank you. The word has an MP, Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16862	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. I'm at the 41st House of Representatives session, 31. In January 2013, he launched an initiative to establish a clinic for carcinogenic diseases and limit transplantation, as well as to amend and adopt the Law on the Donor Network in BiH. I received a forward reply from the Federal Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health and Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia and the Department of Health and other services of the Brcko District. The federal ministry was not manifest at all, the RS Health Ministry was clear that it did not support such an initiative as the Department of Health and Other Services of the Brcko District as there is no will, according to BiH, the political will of the health authorities. But what's actually strange is that the Council of Ministers didn't even show what their position is, what their opinion is, but they just passed on the answers given like this. Over 50m euros each year, BiH spends outside BiH's borders on organ transplants in clinics around the world. That's one problem. The other problem is that in BiH we have a very large number of people waiting for a transplant in line to wait or they're doing it in India, I don't know, other parts of the world. And the worst part of BiH is every year it loses and humiliates its own citizens in such a way that continuing humanitarian actions are raising funds to help treat, neither do I, the citizens of BiH who should be looking for services outside BiH's borders. So this is one difficult question that the Council of Ministers should answer. And the second part of my question is about the initiative to amend the Donor Network Act in BiH. In Europe alone, Croatia and Spain have a positive relationship with the donor network, in fact all the healthy citizens of these countries are potential donors and in all other countries, and also in BiH, so the donors are the only ones who sign for their lives, i.e. join the donor network for these organs. I think that a very big thing would be done if these initiatives were directed towards entity parliaments to allow citizens of BiH to get to the desired authority as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16863	Thank you. The word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16864	Dear colleagues and colleagues. 7 I received a very quick response from the Ministry of Defence, and it is related to recent malfeasances in the contest and procedures for the selection of 38 officers and 114 sub-officers in the Armed Forces who were wrongly hit and on the basis of which the Council for Appeals at the Council of Ministers annulled such a decision. What is good is that the minister drew attention to the identification of a number of persons who, using their position and availability of information on the reception process, tried to manipulate the process of reception with the aim of achieving personal property benefit. Here, as we have seen in the last few days, it has been given to an epilogue, and I think it is already SIPA and others are involved in the resolution of this whole case, in which it is claimed that after the reception, or for the promotion to the rank of suboffice and officers individuals took from 5 to 15 thousand marks. I hope this will be a good way to regulate other illegalities in the Ministry of Defense in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16865	Thank you. The word has an MP, Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16866	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members and guests, I welcome you all. What I would like to comment on is this,... a question that I have asked the regional, or county and cantonal courts in BiH in terms of, therefore, how many firms we have in bankruptcy proceedings, when they started, when we see an end, which is the number of companies and ultimately who are bankruptcy managers in the same. What I got, not to say of all the courts, I thank everyone and that information is very important to me, but it is looked at in that it is practically 95% of the company in the bankruptcy process, mostly the companies are shutting down or the processes are by, not to say, and up to nine years are being conducted, which is really interesting and devastating. The second thing is very few companies, so they come out of bankruptcy as healthy thanks to the asset managers. Unfortunately, the bankruptcy managers, according to these answers I have analyzed, I see that the largest number of bankruptcy managers, i.e. that in all courts, bankruptcy managers receive several firms, which certainly results in a negative outcome because they are physically, mentally, neither technically, nor scientifically, professionally, operationally, are able to run so many companies. First of all, there are large systems from 500 to 1,000 workers who have somehow fallen into a difficult situation. Such bankruptcy proceedings with such bankruptcy managers cannot be conducted and ultimately cannot result in what should be the objective. So that answer I got I want you to have in some way in your mind. Which direction we'll react further remains to think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16867	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16868	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague Belkić and I received the answer, in fact the information on our request to implement the Animal Protection and Well-being Act, and I have no intention of repeating what the esteemed colleague Belkić said. So, I agree entirely with that, but let me say something that I notice as a phenomenon in the functioning of the Bosnian-Herzegovina state and the authorities in general in BiH. So the information finds the situation, it shows that the law has not been implemented, there is a problem and then nothing more. There is no one responsible for why the Law has not been implemented so far, which is why, therefore, the problems are. That's what's missing that information. I again point to one of the key problems in BiH and it concerns responsibility for fulfilling the state's obligations. Can we allow in the state to have such a problem and to create information in which we will only determine the situation? I think we're in charge of dealing with this, and don't let the Council of Ministers get angry when this is why I'm pointing very often at them, so they're the ones who are operational and who need to take care of this and that the problem is solved. I don't think it seems enough in BiH to solve the problem. Why is there no answer to the question – what is not the rule of registration, let's say, of these animals, why has it not been done so far? It's a key document that leaves everything. And who's responsible for not bringing it in. Many things have been done but key things have not been done and therefore we have a problem in BiH. I'm asking that this be taken care of. We will discuss this in public on October 3rd, but I had a need to express my dissatisfaction with the situation in this area as well as in many other areas and point to a possible problem. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16869	Thank you. The word has an MP, Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16870	Thank you, Chairman. I've got one answer, which I must say, quite accidentally I found, that's an observation to the Secretariat, uh, because there's no answer here at all. Given the answer, it is no wonder that he is not even on the list because I asked – how many people, i.e. vehicles, both passenger and freighters, crossed the BiH border during 2010, 2011 and 2012, both from BiH. And I got a very precise answer that management, because I asked the Directorate for indirect taxation, says it's not leading, and then it's in brackets that it's not bound to record the number of people as... passenger vehicles, or cargo vehicles. Here, I'll rephrase my question, let my question this time go to the Council of Ministers, now I'm very curious whether anyone in BiH knows how many people cross the border, both on the one hand and on the other, both people, and then motor vehicles. I wonder if anyone has that information in BiH. So I'm just going to rephrase this to the Council of Ministers. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16871	Thank you. Moving to b) New Parliament Questions First, MP Niko Lozančić signed up for new parliamentary issues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16873	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I have one representative question for the Federal Ministry of Tourism and the Environment, and this is – under what conditions did the Kakanj Termoelectrica, which operates in the form of the Elektroprivreda BiH, get an environmental license? And if the same entity has been granted this environmental permit, does the competent ministry have any control over the implementation of the obligations that follow from the environmental permit? In particular, the same business entity, particularly through the enormously pre-named coal deposits, slags and ash, makes the life of the surrounding population literally intolerable and particularly harmful to the health of the same population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16874	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16875	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. So, I'd like to ask a question here from the College of our House.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16876	There's no way. We solved that a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16877	But here, through you and the Joint College of both homes, because I want to introduce the MPs to one letter that most of them didn't get, but they're probably club bosses, I don't know if they've all met the MPs. So since 12 September 2013, the leaderships of both Parliament's homes and club heads in this House have been sent by the US Embassy's envoy, the head of the OSCE Mission, the High Representative to BiH, the ambassador, that is, the head of the EU delegation and the head of the Council of Europe's Office, where they point to the obligations of both the House of Parliamentary Assembly, and have come from the rulings of the Constitutional Court of BiH. A special accent has been given in the Decision of May 2011 where the Constitutional Court confirmed that it is a member of 9.3., Article 20.13. The electoral law 10 is not consistent with Article 1(2). The BiH Constitution, as controversial members contain names of municipalities in RS that are not in line with the names of established entity law and territorial organisation. This is what I'm saying, and also yesterday's debate, which was held here in the OSCE, indicates that in September 2013, the elections, according to the Constitution of this country, were in October 2014. Regardless of all the debates and polemics that we are having on the implementation of the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci verdict, what is coming at the Brussels meeting, I would like to see the chairman through you, if not, have no other option to ask you to try to initiate at the Joint College of the two Houses of Parliament, because the court has obliged the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, not the political leaders or parties, and you represent the leadership of this House and I, through you, want to highlight the concern and seriousness of this situation to try to do something. If we cannot resolve all issues through amendments to the Election Law, we can at least do what the Court has ordered us to do, as far as changing the name of the municipalities of election areas in RS is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16878	I let you expose the initiative, although we have already explained the business situation in this regard. But here, I think, is the initiative, anyway. I'm glad I'm closer to you in terms of realising this initiative than I am to say your man in the College of the House of Peoples, but good. The word has Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16879	Thank you. I have two questions. One for the BiH Presidency – When can it be expected on the agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives ratification of the Agreement on Divergence with the Republic of Croatia, since an agreement on the identification of borders has already been signed, with facts and claims that there are no specific border disputes on the ground? Another issue for the BiH Armed Forces Ministry in terms of – What does it do about the rehabilitation and adaptation of adequate insurance of existing military facilities that are in constant use, better quality water supply of all facilities, security and ensuring the modernisation of transport resources in the Armed Forces of BiH, the reconstruction and modernisation of ITK funds in the Armed Forces, the standards of all employees in the Armed Forces, and the establishment of an appropriate educational centre for members of the Armed Forces - officers, officers and soldiers? And I have one initiative for the Federation of BiH Banking Agency and the RS Banking Agency. ... for the adoption of an appropriate legal act which would reduce fees on all banking services in all commercial banks, microcredit organisations and lease houses by 30%. The explanation is in the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16880	Thank you. 11 The word of the messenger is Šemsudin the Mehmedovi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16881	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests. I have two short questions. The first is the BiH presidency and the BiH Foreign Ministry, on the issue of resolving the rights of workers working in Croatia from BiH. On 28.03.2013, at the 46th session of the House of Representatives, it is due to deliver a new and more complete report on the implementation of the action plan within 60 days. The question is – When will this report be in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with a specific view to whether what has been done is the issue of resolving the problem of the fired workers and the citizens of BiH being launched by the EU in light of the fulfilment of the conditions that the Republic of Croatia should meet before joining the EU? And as we've known since 01.07. Croatia is already an EU member. My question is – What has been done and is the initiative ever launched to complete with the Republic of Croatia the existing Social Rights Treaty in terms of equalising these rights of BiH citizens who have become disabled workers in the Republic of Croatia with rights that have and enjoy citizens of the Republic of Croatia? The BiH foreign ministry is tasked with appointing representatives of the BiH delegation to negotiate with representatives of the Republic of Croatia. What about that delegation? Is he gonna come back to life and start working? And another question to the Council of Ministers – When will the Council of Ministers in the parliamentary procedure be referred to the Law on Lustration, and is there even a plan for this law to be found on the agenda, both the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH? Explanation: We witness daily the repeated brutal violation of human rights precisely from those who despite such behaviour in the previous system are once again guilty of human rights violations, which enables them not to adopt the Law on lustration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16882	Thank you. The word has an MP, Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16883	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'm going to deliver some questions in writing, and I'm going to take this one out this way. So, the Council of Ministers, the Coordination or the Conference of Ministers of Education and Government of the Republic of Slovenia – Why is the Law on Fundamental Education and Education of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education of BiH not respected in the area of RS, and the aspect of the insurance of teaching in the native language and the provision of a group of national subjects? 12 The second question is – Please provide me with all information on the state of teaching at the elementary school Konjević Polje and Kotor Varoš with a proposal for measures. And the third issue that should offer about one whole approach to all of this – that the competent education ministries and the Education Ministers Conference prepare information on the implementation of teaching throughout BiH, and from the aspect of the phenomenon of discrimination and ensuring the right to education in the native language, along with a proposal for possible changes to the laws and regulations that would make such phenomena discriminatory and neutralised. One brief explanation: I am, as an MP, recently with a group of parents from Konjević Polje talking here in front of Parliament, who have come to express their own, I would say, justified dissatisfaction with the situation in which their children are located at the elementary school in Konjević Polje. So, I am convinced that there are certain other parts of BiH, and, to be fair, none of us are going to honor it. And on the other hand, it's always a potential threat to cause new tensions, new conflicts, none of us need that. I suggest that, in this sense, we show all the willingness to deal with that problem in a way integratedly. I know Minister Nović has good mechanisms in the Civil Service Munist, we worked together. And the leading Education Ministers Conference in one place can get all that information and find the best possible solution in a joint discussion and discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16884	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16885	Mr. Chairman. I have one question for the Ministry of Security – I ask the Ministry of Security to deliver the national structure of the management staff at the State Agency for Investigation and Protection. Here I mean the national structure at the Agency's headquarters. I've got some information, I'd like to be sure that the imbalance of the national structure here is quite disrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16886	Thank you. The word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16887	My question was referred to the Ministry of Defense again. In short, is it – Are all the facts and circumstances that led to the discrepancies of the records and the real state of the hand-thrower of the rocket 64 mm, M80 "Zolja", at the location of Krupa Hadžići warehouse? What has the Ministry of Defense done to determine organisational and personal responsibility? 13 We have recently seen that the discovery, by opening the crates, found two “Zole” next to each other, and that the third and fourth in the box was one empty, means fired, and in the fourth place there was something else, so it was not what was led in the crate. Given the possibilities of this weapon, it is expected that the Ministry of Defence will undertake all investigations and sanction the disappearance of such a significant asset.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16888	Thank you. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16889	The question is for our Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, and it says – Do you also work at what stage is the analysis of existing solutions, legal solutions and any need to amend and supplement the Law on Audit, and in line with the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives since 18.04? We have received your circulatory letter where you stress that it is important matter, that you must take care of the independence, the achieved standards, etc. And you suggested there would be an analysis. I wonder if she's working and what stage she's in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16890	Thank you. The word has an MP, Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16891	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question concerns the Ministry of Defense and I will deliver it in writing. I'm looking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16892	Thank you. Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16893	I thank the chairman. Here, I will remind you colleagues and colleagues that two or three days ago we received everyone on the table of the Committee on Respect for the Obligations and Employment of the Member States of the Council of Europe or the Monitoring Committee, the proposal for a report entitled "functioning of Democratic Institutions in BiH". All those who had the opportunity to read the Report during this short period could also conclude that from the intonation and content, of course and the recommendation, the debate on this topic deserves special attention. And in this regard, Mr Belkić and I propose that the next session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives be held urgently, and before the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which will discuss the proposal for a report "functioning of Democratic Institutions in BiH", put the agenda point with the material to be discussed, so a concrete proposal for a report. If during that period, until the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe there is no regular session of the House of Representatives, an extraordinary session of the Parliamentary House of BiH should be scheduled. So this initiative is proposed by Mr Belkić and I on the basis of what has been written and delivered to all of us in the monitoring of the Committee, or their proposal for a report. Thank you. I just have to say that, anyway, if you support me, I appreciate that it would be good for me to discuss at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on this particular subject, precisely because of this report, the College of the House of Representatives, or the Parliamentary Assembly, should attend. And I must say, I am surprised that one of the colleagues and colleagues from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has not already initiated it. Although we did... we only got two or three days ago, but here I draw attention to everyone to read the Resolution carefully.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16894	Thank you. When it comes to this term "an extraordinary session", I guess you all know we can't call an emergency session unless we change the Rules of Procedure in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16895	But there's something he can do.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16896	And something can, I say what can't. Milica Marković, replica. But there's no replica at this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16897	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16898	Yeah. Only to answer through questions. The word is Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16899	Wrong, I'm over it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16900	Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, we apologize to Mr Jovičić. Here's my colleague Lijanović. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16901	... My question concerns the establishment of an iPad payment structure at the level of the BiH state. [[microphone is not enabled]] In last session of Parliament, and I also see the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs as well as its opinion, the answer is that the deadlines for setting up the iPad structure cannot be given because it is not known when the chairman of the Council of Ministers will meet with the relevant ministries and prime ministers of entity governments. Here, therefore, I welcome once again Mr. Chairman and perhaps give an oral answer – So when will he meet with entity prime ministers and resolution ministers of agriculture and finance, in order to complete the plan of activities to establish the operational iPad structure for the use of pre-accession funds for agriculture and rural development? As is known, we have already lost 5m euros for agriculture to establish the payment structure because of this failure. Well, there's the president, I'd even be begging if he can respond orally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16902	Thank you. Prime Minister Vjekoslav Bevanda is ready to respond immediately. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16903	Greetings to the president, distinguished MPs, colleagues and everyone else. Here, thanks for the opportunity to answer, you're probably not well-informed enough, since it's not an absolute commitment by the president and two prime ministers entity. You know well that two ministers and coordinator Mr. Šarović met 55 times and that no agreement could be obtained. So, you don't have to meet three prime ministers for every single thing and every single subject, it's enough level. Mr. Šarović took a co-ordination role there, but the matter was a non-contract between the two agriculture ministers and the two entities. That's the answer and that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16904	Thank you. Reply, MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16905	As far as I'm aware, the Federation entity minister has given open Bianca support for any deal, and he will stand behind it, as it is the Minister of the People's Party Work for the better, and also to my brother, so here I am very well acquainted. So, I think that right here is the problem of the state because it is the state, the Agency, as we will now call it, for the payment system and I think that we here in Parliament and the Council of Ministers need to force them, if nothing, entityal, because we have that power, we have mechanisms in our hands, that we do it, that we do no more damage to agriculture and ultimately to the reputation and citizens of BiH. We have the tools and we can do it... at the Council of Ministers and Parliament. I explicitly say we can do this. 16 And, Mr. President, in any case, we will be here for you, and I hope all my colleagues support us to do it, because we are really in great harm, we all know that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16906	Thank you. The word has once again been made by Prime Minister Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16907	Deeply aware of the responsibility, the deep awareness of the damage BiH is suffering, I have made every effort possible, I have been the initiator of all procedures and actions to obtain an effective coordination mechanism. This is only one segment of why we are losing money because of one's whims, evidence within BiH, bickering and why we do not have this coordination mechanism. I repeat again, quite enough effort has been made by the resolute minister calling, trying to coordinate and the rest, it is the agreement of two entity ministers. You tell me what the way and way it is, given the Constitution, constitutional jurisdiction and what I as the chairman of the Council of Ministers and you as Parliament can do to arrange for someone not to fail 5 million. The same will happen to 17 million who are in five of these next programs, and that's why I'm talking about the coordination mechanism. As for the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers, it formed a coordination team, the co-ordination mechanism was over last year. Therefore, you can freely ask what the cause is, the reason why so far there is no such thing. And until that happens, things like this will happen to us all the time. What happened at the European Commission, when we were all prime ministers and when we set up an argument, we are one step ahead of the coordination mechanism and I hope that the Federation Government will adopt this coordination mechanism and we will solve the matter. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16908	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. There you go, with an apology for your previous calling.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16909	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of Ministers with his associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, my question of parliamentary will be addressed to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and there are questions, and we haven't agreed, Mr. Honorable counterpart Šepić. Let me immediately say that as a man and as an MP from the RS, I am interested in asking for full information to clear this mess around the school in Konjevic Polje. The resolution minister, Mr Nović, has been told here countless times that he is the best minister in the Council of Ministers, and I will not say anything new or confirm, nor will I praise the minister,... to make efforts to get information from the 17 competent RS Education Ministry, as I will now extend my question, without seeking any balance or parallel with Mr Šepić's question. But you heard in the media the famous Babić family from Sarajevo, because of a child who had Serbian nationality and who needed something to go to the museum there, so it was forced into this and that. And that family is moving out now or moving out, I have no information. But such events cause the most controversy and crowds in the public, which we don't need at all. The census will likely show more than I will ever get answers to questions, regardless of all the interest and efforts that the minister in charge will make, which I have no doubt, as has been done so many times, but it will also show the birth rate, which is in decline, will show the number of Serbian, Bosniak and Croatian children in certain territories. As far as it is, I will no longer use the term ethnically, a certain territory has been cleared, but it is generally known that it is a valid term that has already been in BiH for 15-20 years. So, I extend the parliamentary question to this -- how much is it in the canton of Sarajevo, and also in the Federation of BiH, for this year, Serbian children are enrolled in schools, so in the first grade? And when I get the first grade information, I'll be perfectly clear if there are any in fourth grade, whether they're in high school, whether they're in colleges, etc. So, this is the general problem of BiH which is most causing controversy in the public and new misunderstandings against which I am. I don't like to deal with it that way. I like to have misunderstandings, take responsibility for this Parliament and try to resolve it. And once again, I will confirm the fact that it will be the important Minister in a comprehensive and in his own way, which is of course foreseen both to the Rules of Procedure and to the Rules of Procedure and the Law of the Ministry, to deliver the information and thank you in advance, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16910	I thank Ambassador Jovičić. The word has been sent by Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16911	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I answered about Mrs Hadžiahmetović's initiative, not to give a certain explanation, because it is not expected of me, but because of some clarification, because of our delegation to the Council of Europe. And of course, finally, it is a kind of replica, not to get the impression that only the Party for BiH is concerned about how BiH will pass on to the international plan regarding the motion for a resolution which is true that it will be considered at the session, at the autumn session of the Council of Europe, and it is true that it is very critical, that it is over, I would say, the most rigid of all the resolutions that have been so far. But yesterday, the delegation had a meeting, so she had a session, she considered it, and one of the initiatives was that today we are running for the agenda issue, so Parliament also decided on it, because the definitely adoption of this resolution in Strasbourg on October 2nd will mean opening the door to sanction BiH for non-implementation of Sejdić and Finica. We gave it up because, you didn't get the materials and it's impossible to do today and I think it's a short time until September 30, when the session begins, but what we did as a delegation did, I presented yesterday to a delegation of two amendments that I prepared as a member. And I think we are very close to making these amendments a common amendment to Resolution 18 of our delegation, and we will discuss that further. The foreign ministry has also been working since the very appearance of the Resolution, working to establish contacts with individual countries that could be on our side, that Article 11 and 12, which means BiH's suspension from the Council of Europe, should therefore be removed from the Resolution. Our mission in Strasbourg is also working very intensively on that plan. We worked as a delegation yesterday and we'll work for the next few days. And the last thing we can do is ask for an emergency meeting with Mrs. Volset, who is the chief rapporteur for the Council of Europe with regard to our resolution on BiH. We will have a special meeting with her on September 30th, so on the first day of the session, and we will try to in some way to ease those views and find a compromise so that these members of the 11th and 12th of the Resolution or be completely stripped or relieved and predetermined. So, it's about that, and of course I don't have any ambition at all, and I didn't answer because if the Kolegijum thinks it's necessary to schedule a session, we, I don't have anything to say about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16912	Thank you. I can only treat this as an initiative to possibly discuss this at the next sessions. The word has an MP, Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16913	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to launch a parliamentary initiative relating to the situation in the BiH economy in the sense that despite the extremely unfavourable business environment and the high burdens of the business sector, we are aware that initiatives are emerging on the introduction of some new taxes and new burdens on the business sector. In this regard, given the very limited competence of the Council of Ministers in the area of macroeconomic governance, in particular in the fiscal sphere, I am initiating an initiative that the Council of Ministers initiates coordinated activities to suspend at the level of all governments in BiH and not launch any activity to increase tax, contribution or other burdens on the business sector, or companies. Deadline for the implementation of this activity by the end of 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16914	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Borisalv Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16915	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, distinguished guests. I'm going to ask a quick question that I've asked before, and it refers to border crossings. The issue is addressed to the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and in part to the Council of Ministers. 19 There is a small number of export-oriented enterprises, and I will take one of the concrete examples. In addition to this problem that my colleague Domazet was talking about, there are obstacles to the administration. And those few export companies to get export licences wait days, in the Council of Ministers, to resolve these issues. Sometimes they get it very fast, and sometimes they wait until the last deadline. As a number of ministries participate in giving these consent, I have noticed this problem and would suggest that the Council of Ministers take a look at the experiences in neighbouring countries. And if there is a 15-day deadline for issuing export licences, why couldn't it be in BiH? Such a solution is present in Croatia, in Serbia, I have not seen solutions in Montenegro, but it does not matter, it is important that neighbouring countries pay close attention and support export-oriented enterprises. When it comes to the Ministry of Security, it is interesting, I said earlier, that the civilian explosives exported from BiH to Croatia were determined by the border crossing in Jasenovac, or Gradina on our part, and on the Croatian side is specified Gradiška. The inconsistency of these two crossings simply, only to go by boat, by boat, by boat, to import there, to clean up the Una and Sava rivers, so that people can enter this crossing and go to another, it's simply not possible to use that border crossing at all. And that's what I said last time, and I can see that nobody's responding, so now I've decided to do it again. Unless there is a reaction I will propose amendments and amendments to the law that will set deadlines, which will be shortened to 15 days and thus... So, the Ministry of Security is trying to determine the border crossing because Croatia will certainly not change its decision regarding the border crossing due to the Jasenovac Memorial Centre, as they said on the Croatian side. On the other hand, the Ministry of Foreign Trade, therefore, as finally a ministry that gives this kind of consent, if it cannot handle decisions and regulations with the help of the Council of Ministers itself, then we should approach the amendment and supplement of the law which will give export-oriented companies the opportunity to export uninterruptedly. It's just the paperwork. So, the goodwill of someone from there who sits by an officer to sign an export licence. I guess we should all look forward to having a BiH company export, especially to the EU. Here, it's part of a question that I will further explain in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16916	Thank you. I'm closing the second item of the agenda. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Statement on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Witness Protection Programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, or suspending the legislative procedure The bill was adopted in the first reading at the 50th session of the House, held on 18.07.2013. On 28.08.2013, at the request of the respective Constitutional Law Commission, the House College extended the deadline for the submission of the Report to the next session. On 17 September 2013, the Constitutional Legal Commission again requested an extension of the time limit for the delivery of the Report, so that this item was reformed in accordance with Article 111(6). The Rules of Procedure, which provides for the following: In the event that the Commission does not submit a report to the House by the deadline, the Commission shall declare that a new deadline has been set or that the legislative procedure has been suspended. I'm opening a debate. I understand there are no reports. I'm closing the debate on the third item of the agenda. We're going to the fourth point, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina – MPs: Lazar Prodanović, Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović and Azra Hadžiahmetović (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16920	Here, I'll do it very briefly, because obviously I don't see that there's any particular interest in the debate most likely because we've all said less about this issue. But I do need to say very briefly that the Party for BiH will not support the principles of this Law, of course for the reasons we have talked about dozens of times here. Because, and this approach, regardless of its intention to try and solve the problem and move us forward, so to speak, to speed up our path to NATO, etc., this approach is such that the state does not view the permanent and permanent owner, but in some ways access to a kind of distribution of property, before the resolved previous issue of enlisting military property, even though it speaks in reason and is asked by the pravobranilaštvo General to do so. We think, we're still standing on that, that we don't have to open and solve something that's absolutely solved, so that the state owns all these assets, whether it's military purposes or some other, that the D.A.'s gotta, and it's bound to register this property. In addition to all our initiatives 21 etc. It wasn't done. They were instructed as an argument to the letter of Inck from which he 10 days ago, if you followed, gave up. He gave up and believes that this letter is no longer an obstacle to writing. We have a recommendation, i.e. we have the conclusion of this House back in 2011 24.11. where the D.A. is called upon to register, to book state property, etc. But here, let me not bother you, we will, therefore, use some other measures when it comes to the lack of defence. So, we won't be asking any more parliamentary questions, initiatives and this, we're going to initiate a procedure, we're going to file a motion against the D.A. not to do its job. So we simply believe that the property must be registered and this Parliament can assign by its decision, as we have done for the American Embassy land, because of the speed, not waiting for the law to be regulated, of course the need for a law that will regulate the way of management, where there will be a way of recording, in which all the purposes of the property can be used, where the structure, or body that will do so, will be determined, etc. But due to the urgency of our NATO path, this Parliament has the right to make a decision to say -- it is assigned to the Ministry of Defence that, because of needs etc. So we're not going to support these principles, but I'm saying, I'm announcing that with the D.A. we're going to open up another kind of communication, because we think there's enough legal arguments to call for responsibility, because they're not doing their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16921	Thank you. Ambassador Mirsad Mešić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16922	The SDP club will support this law and the only motive for the adoption of this law and its proposal in this House is the benefit all the social political communities in BiH have by its application. So we support this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16923	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the fifth item of the agenda. We're going to the sixth point, Ad. Six. Proposal for a law on the protection of persons who report corruption in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – MPs: Lazar Prodanović, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović, Azra Hadžiahmetović, Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo and Šefik Džaferović (first reading) I'm opening a debate. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16925	Of course, I will support this initiative and the Law, etc., but I needed to say two sentences. So, after the practice that we have introduced and we call the laws, which are passed in this House, we are now slowly moving to laws that have a domain in BiH Square and still do not. So the law refers to reporting corruption in BiH institutions. There are also a number of other targets in BiH, and a number of other entities, institutions, etc., which deserve treatment in this law. Of course, it's clear to me that some things have been done in entities, but it's not like, when it comes to BiH, we're coming into a situation to make laws that have power and domains on this square that we're on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16926	Thank you. The word has a letter from Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16927	Thank you. Here, I'm going to start by looking at what Mr. Belkić was talking about for a little while. It would be good if we had a single law on the protection of people who report corruption, whether it's registered in a local community or in state institutions. Unfortunately, in our system as it is, in the different competences that we have in terms of labour relations regulations, inspections, general legislation, labour legislation, state services, the positions of civil servants, etc., what could have been done is, that is, in the current circumstances, which is that we have a law that protects persons who report corruption in BiH institutions and private entity laws some of which are already in a more advanced procedure, which all form a package together. That we have no immediate illusion that even these laws, which are in the set of anti-corruption laws, will solve the problem, but, if nothing else, will protect people who report corruption from being subject, or subject, or object of retribution, or any sanctions for reporting corruption. It's not about other things, it's about that. It's just a brief comment on this. But here, let me also mention that a group of parliamentarians, who have also proposed this Law, have been together for a long time with some international organisations, that is, with international support, who have interreduced and provided logistical support and made possible both contact and communication and with an NGO that is more focused on these issues, as a result already, I must say quite a long work on this matter, have come to the proposal for a law that is before all of you. So, I expect the Parliamentary Assembly to accept this Law, not prejudicing, probably as other promoters, that it is ideal and that we will not perfect it, but as the first law that we start to regulate this matter, protect people, I think and appreciate that it deserves special attention. Thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16928	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16929	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, I don't mind the proposal for a law like this, but in order for me not to make a joke out of a name, this law should change in the name – the law of snitching. Who's gonna protect who if they report anything? We had the Witness Protection Act, so we saw how it went, where people used the benefits of a certain one, so we reported them neither guilty nor due, just to take advantage of the opportunity to take some money, to put them under protection, so they took them to another country, change their identity, so it's not called Slavko Slavko-Jovičić-Slavuj but it's called NN and who knows what it's called, but he took the money and lives Bog to ask now where, neither Interpol can find it. That's how the fate of this law will be. If someone, again, doesn't want me to tell a joke from a tall home but I speak in a folk language, he's got into some BH institution, of course he's come mostly over a relationship, on some party line, relatively, sisterly, djgs, aunts, amids, aunts he already has an earlier employee, and he's going to report it now, and he's going to find out there thank Bog because every day they're on coffee and they find out everything, and now he's going to report corruption. Right? Well, he's not crazy. He's not crazy, how he came alone or she came in here alone and she got in there, she knows what line, and now she's gonna give meaning to a big one or he, under alleged signs, and he's gonna report corruption. What does that mean? First, she has to report to herself that she is corrupt and bribery, and those lists she spoke of by a respected colleague, Majkić, for that defense, which is true, but we will see what the Court, the Prosecutor's Office will say, I am neither a prosecutor nor a judge. From 5 to 15 thousand marks they took there to incriminate someone. Well, it's worth giving someone 15,000 marks, you know, if he knows he's 35 years old, he'll retire. And there are countless things like that. But here's to not saying that we from the RS or I don't know from the SNSD shut up and we're against something, here's I'm not against this, but this is not going to solve anything, not corruption or anything. Let's take one of those things that I've been fighting for seven years, force, under alleged signs, although we don't have that possibility, our competent institutions, agencies to do their job – the prosecution, SIPA, intelligence and countless other agencies dealing with it, so we have an agency in this corruption and the fight against this corruption, and I don't know what. So do we have any of their reports where we found any corruption in BiH institutions? We didn't. And that I don't speak any further because this is really more degutant to tell me, but here, I'm going to give support just so I'm not outside of the others, but as far as I'm concerned, the rat law and who catches who, and I don't think they're going to catch him because you're more resourceful than one law that prescribed it. Well, so I don't owe any more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16930	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16931	Mr. President. I, of course, support this law. Since the Law is in the first reading, there is likely to be an opportunity to make it even better. And in that sense, I point out the comments that, I think, have received all the club representatives in the House of Representatives from Transparens Internešnel on this bill. I agree with those comments mostly. I especially point out the problem of conditioning external application previously made with an internal application. I think you should think about whether it's really useful and whether it's the best solution. Just another aspect to touch for a little while. This wide-chosen round of proposings would certainly be, it would be good if someone from third, a member of a third constituent nation had found it. If we didn't come from HDZ, there are certainly Hrvat who could, amongst the MPs, who could have a reasoned discussion about this, let's say that from a superior perspective, Lijanović could make a contribution to the better-quality bill. If the reason lies in the fact that the promoters believe there is no corruption among the Hrvat, I assure them they are wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16932	Thank you. Ambassador Senad Šepić has, or here, if you may...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16933	This is very interesting, very interesting this latest exhibit by my colleague Mate. I will propose, here in this discussion, firstly to say that I support this proposal completely, and I propose that the initiative is already launched, on the trail of what my colleague Belkić was talking about, that a draft law on the protection of persons reporting corruption in BiH be drawn up in parliamentary procedure. So even in this context, this can be done by these same promoters, can be done by the Council of Ministers, and here I suggest that Mate propose someone in the order of the Croatian people to participate maximum in one of these groups. Because I believe that as long as we are all in BiH openly and without any delay, we do not deal with these problems, then none of us in this country has a chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16934	Thank you. Replica, MP Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16935	Well, I mean, first of all, it's called a replica, but I want to give an explanation, to replicate, to give clarification to my colleagues first of all from HDZ. So, in a group of MPs who were also members of both the state parliament's homes and MPs of entity parliaments, the RS Assembly, very actively participated counterpart Čavar from the Federal Parliament, Marinko very actively, Mr 25 Martin Raguž from the House of the Peoples of the Parlametary Assembly of BiH, and here I must say that also some colleagues and colleagues who are not part of this House could not officially be proposings. And I ask you to communicate a little more within your party circle. Among other things, kolega Čavar was in charge of communicating with his colleagues from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on this subject, as one of the very active participants in the whole process of making this, this and other laws that are today or will be held at other meetings of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the agenda. So, both colleague Čavara and colleague Raguž who actively participated on all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16936	Dušanka Majkić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16937	Well, here I am saying that I very much respect the efforts that fellow MPs make in making and proposing new laws. But I really think you should determine on each of these laws should Council of Ministers. In addition to that, I would like to say that this Law has not passed the Council of Ministers and we often find it very difficult to remove the mistakes we make in making or proposing these laws and our laws are becoming more difficult to implement. In addition to this, I want to say two things. BiH, which is highly quoted on the corruption scale, would have to show an effort to do something on the plan. It is now resolved through the Criminal Law and the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, which we know how it works. So, the objective force of this new law, which we passed before, in 2009, seems to me the last one, is such that it will be difficult to obtain results or at least it won't get them soon. That is why I think that this issue should be resolved in a whole way and I think that this law should certainly not be adopted before the public debate is organised and that all those who have something to say, both the government and the NGO have the opportunity to make a statement about it and to help make the law as high as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16938	Thank you. Ambassador Zijad Jagodić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16939	I thank the chairman. Here, we had a chance to hear different opinions with which I definitely agree less. I will certainly support this law, regardless of what I have, I have my own thoughts on this law, first of all because it refers only to corruption in BiH institutions. I think, and I believe, I am convinced, that until there is catharsis in general in society we will find it very difficult to come up with the expected results that this law seeks. However, 26 of this Parliament, where we had the opportunity to hear, not to say, some words that definitely put everything on the market and then leave room for corruption, but I don't directly think of those who said that when they said that who gives and more. But look at the problem of corruption when we observe customs in BiH or the customs sector of mass are problems. Unfortunately, we can't expect that because it's a set of circumstances that often participate in these jobs, and most often times, people who have come to employment in such services, because the fact that we have locksmiths, tokars, butchers and I don't know what other profiles, instead of graduate economists, lawyers, experts for certain areas in export-import jobs. And it certainly gives me the impression that practically with people of the lower knowledge fund we can't expect, and their appetites are great. I think this should be done, I will support this Law anyway, but I also think that the law should be unique, although in this state and at a time like this until it comes to catharsis, until it comes to the sobering of all people and until we're really more objectively looking at why people reach out for corruption, when there's no other way. Look in regular competitions all the best, regardless of being first on the list, he's tenth or never, here's definitely people copying, multiplying, sending, going to interviews, but it's all a reflection of corruption from the top that's reflected to the bottom. And I think, of course, here I will support it, but Bog knows what effects I don't expect of this until there is one law, but the true and healing of all those who participate in these acts concerning this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16940	Thank you. The word has an MP Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16941	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, I shall, in short, proposer, one of the legislators of this law. I think this law should be supported, in the sense that it is one of the first steps of the overall fight against corruption. Given that BiH is indeed according to the corruption index, it means that it is already investigated in the sense that one of the most corrupt states, of course those in transition and others, is whether, it is very good to start with something. I also agree with my colleague, Majkić, who said that this is one problem that should be, it is a very important issue of corruption both because of European integration and because of our personal dignity as a state and everything else, but of course it is one very large job. This extensive work requires both work and effort and patience of all, means that we here too, of course, parliamentarians, and of course citizens, and of course there should be very broad public debates on this issue. There'd be a lot of things to say, but it's got to go somewhere. I suggest that this law pass today because it is the first step, so we all know that corruption is not without someone who can eliminate corruption from certain levels of government in BiH. Of course it's all this little and weird and what our Nightingale says is some snitching. You don't need to think of it as snitching, it's something that, so we all need to look ourselves in the eye and, of course, work on something like that to reduce corruption. 27 I know that indeed this law of similar content in countries in the environment, for Serbia I know perfectly well because I and I contacted them from one of their groups, got very big, very big support and I think that, as one initial step in all this we really need to support the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16942	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16943	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. We're talking about the principles of this law today. And this law, when it comes to principles, introduces one newspaper in the functioning of the BiH system to protect people who report corruption, and this paper is actually the key principle of this law. Many people were later scolded and subjected to various types of responsibility by those who reported corruption in good faith or good intentions. This Law has a principle to protect those persons, because there are cases to be brought about after reporting corruption, so in good faith, for good reason, to conduct disciplinary proceedings, to express some measures, and even to cease working relations. Such a person then loses his status, loses his working relationship and complains to the court, that is, file charges to the court and conducts a working dispute in court. But in all that time, the person suffers the consequences, it is not at work and has all the consequences resulting from a disciplinary procedure with such a measure. This Law protects those persons and says – if the application is in good faith, the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption is involved, and it is said – measures are suspended by such a person which have been taken by a person against whom corruption or a responsible person has been reported, it remains at work, and let the person who runs it in court prove that this person has a problem when it comes to working relations. That is, therefore, a key principle. This person does not suffer adverse consequences as a court procedure is conducted, the final word gives judgment. And I think that this is how we actually encourage the reporting of corruption in good faith, in good faith in BiH, because this is how we protect those persons. The key institution is the Anti-Corruption Agency. I think this law should be supported in the first reading. There are a number of amendments, there are already a number of amendments, some letters come here to Parliament, let all who intend to make amendments contact with MPs, let them submit amendments, we will discuss, therefore, these amendments and see what is acceptable and what is not acceptable. We definitely need this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16944	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16945	Thank you, Chairman. I also join those who support this Law and I think it is primarily necessary for the environment in which we live. To speak of this Law means to look at the implications it contains, which is to protect those who report certain illegal acts. I'm saying that then we have in mind that our society as a whole is corrupt, covered in organized crime. I think we are among the leading countries in this regard and I think we are among the leading countries that do nothing about it. I see BiH as a whole, I don't see it as so separate, and it's a very serious thing for this country. But I do not see, nor do I see the political will to do anything about it. Political will is primary in this, it creates an environment for fighting corruption, limited crime, it creates laws, this law is in favour of this, an important law and should be applied. I think this very official system, which works very badly with us, our administration is semi-literate, there are no institutions that cover the administration, I'll say, I'll take the opportunity to say that the administration covers 2/3 of the legal system of a country. Entities, neither BiH have institutions for administration. You in the former Yugoslavia had institutes in the provinces for management, republics and federal level. Now you have no institute anywhere, there is one at BiH level, but which has more political ambitions than professional ones, and of course it has not gained its place in the BiH system. So, management is where the litter is, there's a locus, a source, a source base of crime, public service, etc. It is through this vision that I am saying that this Law can make a certain contribution to the fight against organised crime and corruption, through this vision some things can be improved, not to say discover. And that's why I'm a supporter of this law, not now, of course, that the law has its faults, its shortcomings and it's not perfect, but I believe in due course that we'll look at all the elements when it starts to apply, so we can change it, hopefully find that common language, because it's in everyone's interest. So for these reasons, I support him, and not only that, such laws should be in other spheres, but I say that is why the primary political will of the ruling structures is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16946	Thank you. The word has an MP, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16947	Thank you. Well, when it comes to the law on the protection of people who report corruption, I personally have one experience in it, because I was the person who was reported by a protected witness. That protected witness went missing somewhere, and I spent three years in court and got an acquittal. And it's obvious that something in the system is wrong. And not exactly, I would agree with my colleague Kunić here, because there is not enough political will to resolve this situation. And I say to my colleague Franjičević, I have no dilemmas are made by Srbin, Hrvat or Bošnjak of this Law, so I don't look at people that way at all, it's only in some remote place which is national, primarily on the profession and on the quality of people's relationships. And here I agree that in this part of the Law, I also support the principles of the Law, because the truth is that the perception of corruption is 29 large, and we have no solutions in the court on the evidence of this corruption, so something in the system is wrong and we will not solve it without political will. But this part, I mean, when you apply the law and everything, what about that person who deliberately reports someone and, I say, that someone, it doesn't prove to him what this person has reported to him, the truth has been told in the last that sanctions can be passed on against him, too, but in any case, I support a framework, a global law like this. And when its application begins, I think we'll still do this in a better direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16948	Thank you. Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, one of the promoters. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16949	Mr. Chairman. As one of the promoters, I would first of all like to thank all my distinguished colleagues and colleagues for the debate on the proposal for this law, so in the first reading. I must say that what I have heard from the predecessors, I am convinced of the remaining debaters, that no one is questioning the necessity and need to adopt such a law for employees of BiH institutions in a variety of ways, but I must say that there have been very many constructive and very high-quality proposals. We've been working on this for a long time, and I'm going to say this, which is not unknown to the Bosnian Herzegovina public, recent research by serious agencies suggests that the key and biggest problem in BiH is corruption. All citizens, all levels that point to this, so of all levels, of all age groups and even belongings and constituent peoples, suggest that this is a bigger problem than unemployment, than poverty, than a number of other needs... things in society. The only possible way to make a symbolic gesture by adopting this law as one of the laws provided for in the Anti-Corruption Strategy by the competent agencies, since the establishment of an agency in BiH, is to protect persons employed in BiH institutions from retaliatory situations when reporting corruption cases. This bill is preventive for those who would eventually opt for corrupt actions to be sanctioned and for those who report this action that they cannot endure the degree of retribution. In this sense, the importance of this Law is an extremely important team more so that the Parliamentary Assembly as the legislator of the law, as the only institution that adopts laws in BiH, must make sure that certain laws allow for cases of corrupting actions which, by means of the way these laws are adopted, impair such a situation. So, the rise and message we would send to all BiH citizens, that we are ready in the process that awaits us, and in a secure commitment that will be in our integration process, not as a story of the need or an important story of BiH's integration towards the EU, but as stories of the introduction and establishment of a normal society, where, without the functioning of the rule of law, it is not possible to develop political life or democracy. So, this story tells us from this law to opening up, gaining candidate status and opening chapters, and we are sure that it will be the first judiciary and establishing competent agencies to fight these cases, I think it may be an important message here from the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16950	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16951	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues. I personally think that although we have heard many different, dissonant tones related to this Law, this Law itself is very good. How effective he will be and how high-quality he will give it is a different story, but what Mr. Honorable MP Prodanović said, I think it is very necessary at this stage in which BiH is located. I would refer to the current situation in the neighbourhood and, looking at the situation in BiH, it mainly refers to countries that have gone far in all of these processes from BiH, which is Croatia and Serbia, one in the EU and has its problems, the other grabs into the EU in a way that really surprises me that the political processes are changing very quickly. Unfortunately, BiH is obviously on the tail of Europe and all events, so corruption as well as, I would say, a permanent problem... a place and attention to deserve. Why should this law be supported in my opinion and why send a message to the BiH citizens that corruption has and that corruption reigns in BiH institutions as well? I think it's a key question, and I'm sure it'll open sooner or later. Whether we will experience it or not, the idea to open this question is certain, and not to be above all, what Mr. Jovičić said, employed by people by party membership, but people by their own quality will come. It's an imminent process. Should these people be protected? They should be protected, regardless of the negative things that Mr Lijanović has stated, because trust me when hopelessness is the main element of our society, brave people, and brave people as they appeared in Croatia and Serbia, they will simply have to have their own protection. So I will be happy to support a law like this and a proposal for this law and an initiative and an idea and I hope that this will not only be a dead letter on paper, but rather be an introduction to a much more radical and serious thing that will happen in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16952	Thank you. Petar Kunić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16953	This is not a classic form of replica, but it is very often heard in Parliament that BiH is far behind Serbia, behind Croatia, and that it will be very difficult to meet the conditions for entry into European integration. It does not stand for that fact, it does not stand for the fact especially when it comes to legal regulations, legislation, significant laws on which the EU insists. Why? Here you can see in this situation we are welcome by foreigners who have insisted on passing some laws that have modern, modern legal systems, the modern state of Western Europe. So let's just say, I'm going to mention one thing, the Freedom of Access Act, that's the Law that Republika Srpska had first in the Balkans. For example, he was current in Serbia about two, three years ago or in Croatia as well. With 31, given that I follow these regulations there, I don't think we have to use a lot of ourselves, so to speak, in terms of regulations, because there was an initiative here by foreigners, I'm not saying that we did it, and that we have passed the regulations that the Western European, or EU requires for accession. I think we're a little behind in the administration, and in the judiciary it went in this way that we don't like very much, but it did go in parallel with EU requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16954	The correction of the quote, which was incorrectly cited, also has MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16955	Thank you. Well, I didn't say that we shouldn't protect the one who reports corruption, but I am in order for rights and responsibilities to be balanced, not only in this Law, but in all things, so whatever we have the right to do so to be responsible and to balance it. I think that's the essence and this law should be, and everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16956	Ambassador Niko Lozančić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16957	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I will begin the presentation on this proposal by way of expressing always admiration and respect for MPs who... to propose some legal solution, it should certainly be respected. However, to me, I find it very interesting this, interesting group of these MPs who, regardless of the ethnic group, here I am not going to potential an ethnic group, interesting to me how they remembered that, that this, I see the explanation, the explanation is much longer and much wider than the Law itself, I see that meaning has been discussing long and wide on this subject. And I'm aware whenever MPs take the legislative initiative to carry it... the risks. So, the risk is to propose solutions that may not be the best, which may not be complete, which may not be harmonised with solutions in some other legal regulations, and therefore I think that, here, well, we need to work out the specifics to get into proposing a whole new law. Now, I must say, I failed in detail, but here I am speaking in memory, this matter is already in a certain way situated in another law. It's the easiest thing to support this, because if you say you're against this law, it turns out that you're for corruption, is this, I mean, these are bombing titles, if this, not protecting people who report corruption, so you support those who are active in corruption, to put it this way. If we have in the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency one part, one part, I see that through this Law certain powers are given to this Agency, one part that applies, meaning, to the protection of persons who report corruption in good faith – what special law. Maybe it wouldn't be good, noticeable enough if we had to, if there was a need, put it through changes and additions to this law. Because if we already have a lex specialise law on 32 agencies that have tasks that they have, and we're giving her this law again... that law would not be able to put this question in perspective. So, I'm afraid we don't have a problem with the lack of law, I don't think we wash our conscience with it, we have a problem with not implementing existing laws. We've got enough laws, so we've got enough and we've got enough good laws. Here, we've seen that the law apparently doesn't matter, is it, but there's a Witness Protection Act that can't be swallowed, so to speak, there's some obvious problems in the Constitutional Commission as soon as the delay is sought. Any person who reports any crime, means any crime, should have some kind of legal protection. What do we think if someone reports in institutions murder, rape, physical assault, there should be no protection? I'm just saying some reviews like this ad hoc, in the absence of such solutions. So, I think anyone who reports a crime must have protection of institutions, legal protection in a proper manner. But look, we're not going to protect any witnesses, and as popular as it is, I'm going to say so, it's popular to talk a lot about preventing corruption today. I mean, I don't see in practice any shifts dramatic because we're protecting, here's the problem of protecting a person, so me and the current law is that, but the existing Agency is envisaged, but the problem of the measures and activities that the authorities are doing in the first place is to organise a fight against corruption. So that's the problem, and I mean, I'm afraid that again, I'm saying, some laws just have a larger number of legal regulations, so here we are creating an illusion as something we're particularly committed to this fight. I'm not sure this is a good way. So, here I absolutely am for protecting anyone who reports any crime, including the crime of corruption, means every one, but I'm afraid this is how we're going to make a forest of regulations that will be very difficult for those who should be able to comply, because the question is whether one or another law is implemented if they are, especially if they're not, if they're different in some respects, etc. So, I appeal, without a specific provision at this time about this Law itself, to MPs that, when proposing new legal solutions, they weigh a little bit more as much as it is opportunised and whether it already exists, means, as a regulated substance in one of the applicable legal regulations. What is special, I think that Belkić mentioned it, especially for me, I do not like to compete with those who say, someone said here today, BiH institutions are particularly corrupt. I don't agree with that. Corruption has the most where there's the most power, you know, there's corruption there. And in what We have heard this day the chairman of the Council of Ministers, how powerful he is, what a corrupter someone will corrupt him for, for what he decides, where he wonders, what he does. Where millions turn, where hundreds of millions turn there is corruption. Therefore, and we have passed a law which, here, we have protected someone who will report here in Parliament or at the Council of Ministers someone for some kind of corruption. That's what it's supposed to be. Why, if you have suggested, you have not proposed a law that will protect all persons in BiH who report any crime. So, I mean, I can see well by composition you could do it, so I see that there's political will both from position and from opposition, which is fine, so by composition you could have done it, why didn't you do it. It means that, and I'm not about us racing to say -- here we are all corrupt, there's everything else that's going on in billions, everything's fine. This one, so corruption has, should fight it, but I think this is just one such, rhetorical struggle, a girl's support against corruption. I'm not sure this law will contribute specifically to this express struggle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16958	Thank you. Ambassador Nermin Purić has his word. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16959	I thank the Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen. Here are 12 hours and 5 minutes, so it's 12 hours and 5 minutes for us in BiH to finally start dealing with the serious issue of corruption. This bill, proposed by our colleagues and colleagues, I consider it a contribution to this fight. Of course, the question is whether we as a BiH society have any awareness of all corruption and the question is how much we ourselves contribute to building one consciousness in BiH that everything is corrupt, that everything is beyond damage, that man is worth nothing if he does not have the right party membership, the corresponding nationality, etc. I disagree with those colleagues who say that, on this particular example, only people are hired in BiH institutions through damage, through family members, relatives, etc. I just don't want to believe that's the way it is. I also believe that everyone should be given the opportunity to report corruption and therefore to be protected, and not only corruption but also this work that my colleague Lozančić mentioned. However, can we make one comprehensive law at BiH level to cover each area. I don't think we can. And so I think, therefore, that the attempt of a colleague and colleague in this area on this particular bill's pre-accession is a good move forward. So, this bill I am free to take as an incentive and lower levels of government, and entities, and cantons and lower, so that they also make their own law according to this and that they also protect officials who are in their jurisdiction, that they can report such actions in the same way, therefore in those institutions and that they can expect protection. I, of course, have certain dilemmas when it comes to the deadlines of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Coordination, as it is already called, whether 30 days is an optimal deadline and whether, in 30 days, anything can happen and 30 days is too much time for someone who is dealing with these problems, who reports corruption and suffers reactions, pressures, etc. Perhaps to consider reducing that deadline, but I generally believe that this Law is a good basis for starting to solve problems in this area and as such, so I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16960	Thank you. Ambassador Hadžiahmetović had one discussion and a replica, so will you like a replica or something?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16961	Whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16962	Well, don't go either way we want to go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16963	If he can't discuss it then he can do it as a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16964	Here, come on, replica. Here you go. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16965	At the very least, I have no intention of replicating anything, perhaps only giving further clarifications. First, on behalf of all of us who are here signed and those who are not signed, I stand behind this, here I want to thank all those who have given support, of course I will not look back on the details mentioned in the discussion, because this is the first reading. It is about principles and certainly that the details and possibly better solutions will be given the opportunity to talk and that we will possibly act in an amendment. However, I felt the need to mention, on the occasion of my colleague Majkić's proposal, that the Constitutional Commission was organising a debate. You see, this law has been working for a long time. This law has passed through, as you can see on pages 8 and 9, through a series of consultations. A group of MPs with the government, NGOs, other organisations, colleagues and colleagues from abroad dealing with this problem, etc. were invited to attend all these discussions by almost all MPs at the House of Representatives. I know that counterpart Džaferović, a colleague of Kunić, was present when we had those Serbian colleagues, if you remember, counterpart Belkić and some other MPs, I apologize for not being able to list all of them. But it seems to me at this stage to reorganize a public debate will come the same ones who took part in this whole process, and we will extend the whole process. I think it's time for this law to be passed yesterday. That's one thing. Secondly, there is a lack of laws proposed by MPs, but there is also a lack of laws that come to us sometimes from the Council of Ministers. We all know that very well. But here's why, and it would be good to include the Council of Ministers for these and other laws, but here's what I'm going to mention to you, for almost 10 months now, that the amendments to one law, which has also been done by a group of parliamentarians, are found in one ministry in the Council of Ministers, that we've never received either positive, negative, no response, no curator, no one. The Agency exists, but the Agency has its responsibilities. This is the law on the protection of persons reporting corruption. It may have been possible to amend existing laws, but to increase the Agency's powers. However, there is not enough political will here to do so, and you know very well what you do to your colleague Lozančić. What could have happened, I will return to the beginning of my today's discussion, which could have been done in this phase and in this context to the political and ambience at the state level, given that it is a law that protects people who report corruption, so they are covered by the provisions of the Law on Labour in BiH Institutions and the Law on State Service. It's not true that billions don't spin around here, when you have a budget and you have public procurement, etc., or anything, or any corruption, no matter where it's addressed. This is about protecting people who report corruption and work in BiH institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16966	Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16967	My desire to end this at a public hearing is because we all got an intervention from someone to say, so there should be more to do, so there should be more of that, so it's not well defined. So I believe that a large group of people were engaged. But public 35 debates still show that everyone has a chance to say what they think about it and that some good things are introduced as in the amendments afterwards into the law. A month sooner or later, it won't disrupt the chaos that's ruling in this. I agree with you that we cannot touch the law of this Anti-Corruption Agency. We must not be touched because this is strictly imposed on us by the European Commission, or the Office of the EU Special Representative in BiH, who said – until the law is implemented there is no change. We've barely arranged the status of the commission in that context. So there's no way we can change through this law. But I ask you to accept that there are comments and people who deal with this, have experience in this, and I don't think it's okay that we don't give, many countries, parliaments, for much more harmless things form, allow public debates. And citizens are supposed to end up saying what they think about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16968	Replica, Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16969	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, so as not to get the wrong impression that someone is against this law, but I am asking the basic question to all the proposings - what is the purpose of this Law? It would be the same if I now proposed the law, we passed the law to make it better for everyone in BiH. We are passing a law that will be the best for everyone today in BiH. The basic intensity of all the laws, although it is clear to all how difficult it is for us to come to any law at BiH level because of procedures, entities, alignment, competent institutions, this and what we have never had an analysis of the implementation of the laws that we have adopted, which is essential to me. That's the point for me, let's see the analysis that we've passed and what he is. Corruption, so many times I've said that to me is a kind word, what corruption, but it can't stand a thief in law. I like to be understood by everyone, if anyone listens to this, when I say thieves and thief. It's, what corruption, corruption is, you come to me a little bit, you give me, what corruption, that's sweet, when you beat up some kid. What corruption. Thieves and the fight against thieves and the mob, crucially, it stands in every law. But it can't stand, it's not the law, it's not the way I want it, it's the rules, the procedures, the languages, these and those, and everything. And finally we pass the law and after five years sometimes someone remembers as – wait for them in 2001, 2002 passed some law and never came into force. What are his results, I'm interested in that? I am interested and it is the law, which I have never been in my life as an MP for seven years and another five years working in Parliament on other jobs after the war, saw that someone from Parliament was taken out of Parliament with handcuffs because he was a thief, that someone was derived from an institution, no matter what location, which is a thief, which he took the money and hired. Don't you guys know that someone took the money to hire someone in your organs here? Don't you know that, huh? Do you need to hear it from me? Well, I'm not a prosecutor or a judge. That's why I'm asking the essential question. Let's build up countless laws. I'll suggest them myself at the next session of ten. But what's the point of people if we already have the law on that prevention, corruption and I've never seen their proposal that someone from here should be prosecuted by the prosecution, not me, I'm a politician, an MP. But I'm not allowed to do stupid things, so I'm gonna stop here, thank you very much. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16970	I don't understand our discussions sometimes either. All you've been telling your colleague, Jovičić, is that you're not voting for this bill, and you said you'd vote. A colleague, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16971	We really are masters, so to speak, of replacing the thesis and transferring the discussion from the subject of debate to one of the widths that is very difficult to see. I've come to remind you, we're going to have some things to do with that safety report today, so if you remember in that report on the state of security in BiH, etc., among other things it's decadently stated that there are in BiH institutions, that there are organised networks connected, etc., that even manages certain things of criminal nature from BiH institutions. It seems to me, too, to me, regardless of respecting all this which has been spoken of and observations etc., and I have said myself that the way we bring here laws from the framework we have passed on to those that apply in BiH Square. So I think it would be important in the first step if we had what was possible, in the overall context and political and relations, etc., to bring. I'm really asking you to try to give us the opportunity to present this particular thing, the amendment, etc. in another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16972	Thank you. Ambassador Dragan Vrankić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16973	Thank you very much. Dear chairman, colleagues and colleagues, guests. I'll do the Krakto. God Bog you say something about fighting corruption, I think a lot of stories have been told about it, and we need to do a lot in BiH to really get rid of it. As far as this law is concerned, I agree with my colleague Lozančić, that much has been touched in other laws, but since we have at least every single thing in five laws touched and covered, so perhaps I suggest that we don't press this time, let it go, let it not be up to us, what the people would say. As for that part, when my colleague Lozančić said earlier, whether, where the government was concentrated or where the powers were that there could be more corruption, I would look back a little on certain tasks based on the experience I had, because for 14-15 years I was authorized to sign financial documents, meaning by the logic of the concentration, whether, I could have been one of those who could have abused it. I have one answer to that, and that's what you do by law, so don't be afraid. But even when you're doing things by the law, you can have problems. I therefore ask the question – whether this Law can be a factual abuse of position or also part of corruption in defending its own position. I was doing my job trying to get those who I was competent to return to the frameworks of the institution into legality, and then I was getting applications. And it was basically behind them, not behind me. But it took years of process and it took a lot of personal emotion, and I don't know what it took, to support it with other subjects or objects of the case produced huge material damage to the state budget, 37 that they never answered. It's true, prove it, whoever you want. It's not my goal, I have no intention of wasting my time on it. But what we're going to do now, let's say here at this pay phone is a hundred times we need to reform the public administration. The reform of public sleep means hundreds or thousands of people out there who are inside, because, let's say, they're not capable or extra in their position. And they're going to reach out to this first, the anti-leader application because they felt that it might be you who's gonna be on that list tomorrow. So believe me, they're doing their job, and I've experienced it. So sits here reviewing and reminds me of this one letter when I was doing something, and then the review came -- look at that, on that and that side, in that and that report. So someone on the inside, and then it took me a little five days to find out who it was, why it was, because I moved a man from one place to another, didn't satisfy that job. I'm just pointing to that fact, but, of course, we all have to do, when it comes to corruption, to reduce it as much and of course as we are in senior functions, and ours is greater responsibility and obligations, even these negative consequences when we have them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16974	Thank you. The last one for discussion came from distinguished counterpart Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16975	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I, as a member of this Parliament, am giving full support to the Law on the Protection of Persons Reporting Corruption in BiH Institutions. Of course, I have a series of questions in front of me and all of us. In any case, this is in some way an indication that BiH's legislative authority wants in some way to protect all those people who report corruption, i.e. to apostrophe of things that in BiH there is certainly corruption, not only corruption but crime, which is an even bigger and worse thing for us in BiH. I fully agree with my colleague Slavko Jovičić, who is in the discussions in some way very practical. I saw here in a sentence of corruption and registration, so in public, private enterprises. There's no corruption in private businesses. All of us who do private business in some way do not accept our businesses or our organizations by relationships, by our grandmothers, by our uncles, but by our abilities so that we can survive on the market, by such an unsettled market. Therefore, those who are capable and who can raise our job to a higher level, no matter what they do, are, we will eventually receive it. It's a good thing it was here, among other things, about the results of the implementation of any law. Now if we do one analysis, you'll see how many laws we have that are, in the right sense, a dead letter on paper, those just do the order, and it's even questionable whether we can even carry them out in practice. There have been several laws and suggestions lately, so there have been... When we talk, I say, about protecting people, in any case we need to protect those, but we had here... and we have through various reports of BiH institutions where we can see for ourselves, is that it is, that 38 many irregularities in the violation of the law, about corruption, about criminal acts. One of these indicators is recent reports from the Office of Appeals, as many as the Office receives complaints, when it comes to public procurement and tenders and how much it respects complaints, about 70% of those received, somewhere at 2,000 complaints to solve annually, over 1,200 honour complaints. So someone assigned someone some kind of job or some kind of contest and broke the law, whose Office of Appeals means... If that someone was answering, I've never gotten any knowledge that someone was responsible for it. So we have here, I say, from a revision that often gives us in our reports, meaning the emphasis on where certain irregularities have been made. And what would anyone do with certain irregularities from year to year? Here, I realize that out of ignorance someone makes an irregularity, but it also repeats it year after year and stays, meaning intact, intact, no one, missing a hair from his head, no sanctions, then we encourage him to do it and do it all this time. Well, didn't we have reports here from a variety of our parliamentary committees, when it comes to the state of security, when it comes to the Ministry of Defence, I don't know where any weapons went, where mine-explosive assets went missing, I don't know, we had this debate in Parliament. So did anyone answer for that? Is there any application to the agencies we're talking about here, the D.A.? Do we have corruption and crime in these agencies themselves that are supposed to be carrying this out? Well, there is, since the D.A.'s office, I don't know, but... there is. So we're all kind of human. How do you control that? It's very difficult, but it's obvious there is, isn't it? And we know about it. It was, there were words here, I don't know, I don't know, from public competitions. So what public enterprise in BiH, which means has the law and calls public tenders for any job? None of them. Because such laws have been passed to say that the director can do it, I don't know either, or some college director of his choice, and then in such a way in these companies public, what I said, there's nothing in private, because people go in, which says I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. That's why we have a situation like this today. And even when we have, when we have a public tender, so when a commission stabs some people, ranks them with some lists, it's a question of whether or not it's okay. Then he comes, I don't know, some board of directors or something, or he appoints people, not those who get the most points, but those who are in the fourth or fifth place. The question is whether it's corruption or not. So we don't even have that clear rule. But in any case, I think this is a contribution to the goodwill of our representatives, to the contribution of BiH as a state that wants to show through this law to both the European Community and Euro-Atlantic integrations, within these Euro-Atlantic integrations, that they want to be a legal state, that they want to sanction all those deviations in every democratic society. And that's why I'm saying it's good to support this bill, but here we need to do some sort of analysis to see after maybe, what Dr. Kabil said, after maybe 2-3 years, some other assembly of Parliament, which are the effects of this Law, and so are many others who have spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16976	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, 39 Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina – MPs: Lazar Prodanović, Nermina Zaimović Uzunović and Azra Hadžiahmetović (first reading) The draft law in the procedure was delivered on 25.07. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on the legal basis and principles on 18.09. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16978	Mr. Vice-President, distinguished colleagues. So this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Official Messenger of BiH has only one member. The goal is therefore for the laws and other acts adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to be published on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly website. Namely, you remember, we've had discussions about this problem before. Four years ago, amendments and additions to this said Law concerning the fact that the Official Messenger allows free access to the published laws and other acts of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly were adopted. Look at the wonders of what happened, the Official Messenger made it possible, but after the term adopted by this Act, since 2009, access to all other laws is impossible without payment. We believe that the laws and other acts adopted by both houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH are, there is no need for me to consider, already, the ownership of this Parliamentary Assembly. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedures of both Parliament's Houses, when it announces, so when these acts enter into force, it should publish them on its website because the largest number of countries do so. So, this is done by the Croatian Parliament, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Parliament of Montenegro, that is done in BiH by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and there is no reason why this procedure is not being conducted at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's website. And another illogicality, that the Rules of Procedure stipulates that unofficial versions of the consolidated texts of the adopted laws in BiH are published on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's website without any other laws. That's it, thank you. I expect, therefore, that colleagues will support the amendment or amendment of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16979	Thank you. Dear colleague Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16980	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. 40 Well, I am on the stand with my colleague Lazar Prodanović and I think that this law should be supported, above all, because the availability of such a law on the Parliamentary Assembly's website is necessary because of different, let's say, scientific research and the availability of information, means scientific circles, then students, all those interested in this issue, so that it is a kind of democratic right for citizens to know, not only citizens but also professional scientific communities, that they know what is going on in BiH's parliamentary life, or here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And I really think we should all give support to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16981	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the eighth point, Ad. 8. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The management of goods taken from customs procedures", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office The report was delivered to the procedure on 16 July. The financial and budgetary committee in charge of the Report submitted its opinion on 12.09. The Commission accepted a report containing the recommendations contained in it, with reference to the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Management Board of the Directorate for Direct Taxation and the Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH. I'm opening a debate. Dear Ambassador Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16983	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have in front of us a new report on the audit carried out which further contributes to the knowledge of the possibilities of achieving additional effects in the use of public resources and public money available to the Directorate for indirect taxation. The report was made with a very high style with a high level of abstraction and it is very difficult to understand it, but it really offers valuable findings and recommendations. In that sense, I think that he was unfairly on the Finance and Budget Committee without any discussion, of course he was accepted, but as a member of the Commission, I think that there is really something to say about this very high-quality report and I will decide on a kind of conclusion which would further specify the obligations for some future activity based on this Report. So we see that in the findings, recommendations, etc., many problems are defined, that there is no orderly system procedure of dealing with goods taken away in the customs procedure, that there is no strategy of access to taken goods, storage, review, whether it is sold, or donated, or destroyed, and what of it to do. I want to point out that there are very many, and in the report itself it is said, 41 there are very superficial and inaccurate, inaccurate estimates of the taken goods, mentioning the 9 million figure, the value of sold goods somewhere around 2 million, but it was sold for about 600,000 marks. So that's a lot of untrustworthy data. I believe that we can certainly talk about the higher values of these amounts and that we can talk about the greater effects that can be achieved by good governance of these goods. In this sense it is evident that sales go very disorganised, some auctions are held, but most often end with a direct contract. It does some department where people are not motivated to achieve some special effects and the findings provided by this audit report are indeed complete and well addressed. But I wanted to point out two points. First, it is necessary to regulate and fully define the procedure for the management of goods withdrawn in customs proceedings, and I think that these tasks and obligations should be addressed to the Council of Ministers and the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, with them finally adopting the Regulation on the management of goods withdrawn in customs procedures, defining all the issues identified by this Report. Secondly, I believe it is necessary to form a special unit for the sale of these goods, which, according to the marketing orientation and active action on the market, would seek to generate as much revenue as possible for the Directorate for indirect taxation. If necessary, we can also give it to the private institution to work. So let's call a public takeover tender and further traffic of goods taken away in customs proceedings, and see if we have any private traders interested in selling that goods. If they sell Violetta's toilet paper in a regular sale, why don't they sell the ones that were taken away in the Palome customs procedure or I don't know anyone else. Of course, the largest number of stolen goods refers to cars, but there can also be made a good marketing concept. So people sell second-hand cars so they make income for themselves, why don't the state institution here in co-operation with the private sector, which is well-organised and competitive, set up this concept of sales. In that sense, I'm going to suggest the additional two conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16984	Thank you. The next one for the discussion came Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16985	I thank the chairman. Here, I must say, in my long-standing parliamentary work, I did not have a methodologically better prepared report which can be read directly in order and between the ranks, very critical, very systematic, in line with the oatmeals that prescribe standards for reports of this kind, where we have plenty and a combination where it takes and enough to do so, and images supported enough to do so. And all praises to the authors of this Report, i.e. the Office which made the audit of institutions, audits and impact in the manner in which it assessed in accordance with its criteria that were very clearly indicated at the outset – efficiency, efficiency, etc., management of goods taken from customs proceedings. To be understood immediately by those who do not breathe precisely in this matter, it is not about small amounts, small values, or small amounts of goods in the country such as BiH and the permeability of our systems and the functioning of institutions, it is about huge quantities and values for the country of such levels and underdevelopment and needs, etc., and it is about 42 values which certainly deserve special filling when it comes to governance, not only sales, but general and management of goods taken away in the customs procedure. I must say that, with all the praise that goes to those who did the review and wrote this report as they have written, I must point out that I was not surprised by very mild recommendations after very sharp qualifications and findings that this Office has come up with leading audit. Because, let's say, we also have contradictions where, on several occasions, there is no legal framework that is within the power of the Council of Ministers, that there is something systemically arranged, etc., and that, in the end, we have absolutely no recommendation to, for example, be. adopt some new law or enforcement, advanced existing laws, etc. And here, in that sense, I will, in addition to all this announced by my colleague Domazet, propose that perhaps after and after the end of the procedure of this report, reviewing the impact on the management of goods taken from customs procedures, perhaps our competent customs commission, with full respect for the Finance and Budget Commission, but it seems to me that a larger set of possible amendments to the laws relating to customs procedures and other similar laws, may be based on this finding and on careful reading and perhaps further information that a set of recommendations, proposals, which laws and in which direction should be amended. I personally think that with the slight changes to the law, for example, customs proceedings could achieve great effects. Certainly not that the problem could be solved, because the key address is the Directorate for indirect taxation, management, this problem organizes a specialised unit department within the administration. But what I need to stress, the impression that I got from reading this, I couldn't help thinking that this wasn't just a failure of a non-systemic arrangement or an inadequate treatment, it seems to me that there is work for some other institutions in BiH. And in that sense, I think the Audit Office should also consider sending this report to the competent institutions, the prosecutions, etc., because behind this, at least as they stand here, there's a lot of stuff. I'm asking you all to read this carefully. This is not a harmless report at all, this is about us, it's about the Directorate for indirect taxation, it's about the work of state institutions and the Council of Ministers, etc., and I think it's really with such good reports and mild recommendations, here I can't help but mention it again, the red light turned on for all of us. I think the fact itself, for example, mentioned in some examples, here's fellow Domazet mentioned, let's say, that some goods that are subject to sale, for example. What happens, auction, tender, doesn't answer, don't have three offers, no other auctions, or repeated tender don't have three offers, no tenders and then goes direct sales. The goods are sold below any possible value. Second, inadequate treatment, storage, etc., which here is supported by even pictures here, speaks of the collapse of enormous values. Third, what happens to us when the goods are not yet acquired, say, the treatment of the goods that are subject to, for example. sales or donations, due to slow court proceedings? What happens, say, with easily broken goods – milk, meat, etc.? And here, more recently, we've been witnessing some sort of affair or incident all the time, let's say, about this kind of goods? Can she wait 36, 40 months, for example? Milk or meat, what's the matter with that stuff, is it someone donating somewhere or it's falling or throwing itself away, or how do we hostly treat this? I would also like to mention that perhaps, it would be very good if the indirect taxation administration organized a special department. It is very easy to finance and that all employees live very well from the funds from the management of the property seized in the customs procedure. Therefore, there is no need to worry about any additional budget requirements in terms of additional employment, etc., but 43 would, if nothing else were to be imitated by neighbouring countries, without speaking to the EU country, and the example here is quite enough, it would be good to think about some solutions and to get rid of those constant thinking about our competences and some other stories that we are now more and more like arguments that do nothing. Because in this country, if you're not going to do anything, you can always find arguments, if nothing else in the jurisdiction, in the institutions, etc., etc. So I first appeal to adopt this report. Secondly, I must say that it seems to me that the recommendations are not in line with the findings set out in the Report, and I suggest that even after, regardless of the procedure of this Report, this Report is also directed to the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, that this Parliament be given a set of proposals on amendments to the laws, i.e. a proposal on the institutional arrangement of this area. And here, I cannot be kidnapped and the impression that today we have, let's say, a point on the 18th agenda – the conclusion of the House of Representatives' Investigation to determine possible irregularities and abuses and the situation in the Directorate for indirect taxation, and we will make a statement today about this, but here is the opportunity for our investigation committee, to extend the mandate, to make an insight into all this and further this Parliament's report, or to suggest conclusions and recommendations that will be the result of their insight into the work of the Directorate for indirect taxation. I just want to mention, I really appreciate that this report should go beyond this Parliament, that it does not experience the fate of another report received to the knowledge or adopted report in Parliament. I also know that it is the Office for the Review of Organized Capabilities when it comes to further steps, but here I also refer the appeal and the College of the House of Representatives to this Report further to the competent institutions that need to determine on this basis whether there are elements for crime and other actions here, because this Report suggests it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16986	Thank you. Dear MP Boško Tomić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16987	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, first of all, to say that the team that did this impact review deserves every commendation, I think they made such a quality material from which you can see how these goods are managed. If those three-economy, efficiency and efficiency were the basic condition for performing the audit, then in this completely got its significant place here. The findings that were made give a truly objective one picture of the management of the stolen goods, of its storage, of the effective handling of the stolen goods, and especially of the taken-off vehicles which, somewhere 2,500 taken-off vehicles, I assume that most of those vehicles when they were taken away were in driving condition. You today, out of 1,650 legally seized vehicles, with judicial decisions that can be alienated, you only have 9 vehicles that are right. What fate was with those vehicles that were taken away, how the warehouse, who took care of them, who carried out the evaluations, etc., slowness in making such solutions. It's when it comes to vehicles, and I can imagine what happens to the goods that are taken away, which is corrupt, which can't, which must have special storage conditions etc. I think we're acting like a country that's too rich, so there's no need to think about such things at all, and it doesn't mean much to us, and it seems to run here, that even though it's priceless value, and some estimates say it's tens of millions of 44 worth of goods, especially if it's taken out that these goods are also machines that are supposed to be in the production process tomorrow to produce certain results and products, and even vehicles that are being taken away, and it would in some way improve or speed up the delivery process of goods and passengers. So he's talking about even greater damage. The particular problem is that there is absolutely no reliable data on the value of these goods, so one completely, I can say, anarchical state in the management of these goods. These recommendations made, I fully agree with counterpart Hadžiahmetović, who says they are not strong enough, are not strong enough. But for that reason, through today through the discussion, and also some milder discussion that was on the Commission for Budget and Finance, should come up with certain conclusions and recommendations and, yes, in that sense, I will also propose one of the conclusions. If there is no fast and efficient sale of these goods, the goods lose that value more and more every day. If those vehicles taken away after 22 months are conducted and this tells us that when those vehicles stand unconditional, unsecured for 22 months, with the carrying and stripping of parts, they lose their value on a daily basis. For these reasons, supporting the recommendations they have made, one of the conclusions needs to be and I will propose it – that the Council of Ministers, based on this Report, make up a programme of measures to manage the taken-off goods more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16988	Thank you. Discussion, distinguished colleague Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16989	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, and I should just like to commend this report to the BiH Institution Audit Office, the report is actually excellent. We from the Report could, even though I did not, say, be an economist, but it is quite clear that the report showed that indeed, as the report said, there is no systematic approach to solving this goods problem taken by customs procedure. I think we should all get involved, not just the Council of Ministers and the Board of Direct Taxation, but all the relevant factors, so here are the MPs here. In conditions of poverty such as BiH's government, it's really pointless and pathetic to let certain goods go to waste in various warehouses, that we don't have a way to donate them, if we can't do anything, if we can't get some proper way to think of it, to donate it. You have institutions at all levels in BiH that cry out, say, behind a motor vehicle. They have big problems, they don't have a vehicle, and they need it hard to do their day-to-day jobs, and we see that a huge number of vehicles have been failing in this way for years, so eventually they become completely certified. I think really this one, I like this in the report, which is supported by pictures, so this has given me this amazing way of how this stuff goes down. And that we really, really need to get involved, I like all of these previous discussions between my colleague Azra and my colleague Tomić, which means that something is being done systematically. Without a system solution here, we can't have the right solution. This means that the Council of Ministers, as the relevant address, makes one, perhaps, rule or bill that would regulate the 45th issue. Because I really believe that under the conditions of this state of affairs in the country, it is pointless to waste so much money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16990	Thank you. Discussion, Reverend Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16991	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here's the thing, a lot of this was about the Customs Commission. We went around as a commission in your own, let's say, field work a lot and customs terminals, and warehouses and everything. We've seen what goods look like, we've actually seen what these cars look like, these cars, and we've seen a lot of failures, so the BiH states when it comes to this topic. When you take it now, here on page 26 of this Report, so look here as far as donations are concerned, it says – the situation is bad when it comes to the donation of confiscated customs goods, since the establishment of the Directorate for indirect taxation has not been carried out any donation procedure taken away from customs goods entirely. So that's also a big problem. The colleagues who spoke before me, I absolutely agree with them, because definitely when you take that many customs, these customs goods that are being taken away can serve the citizens of BiH in one way or another and have failed, I think that we are definitely all wrong, because that is one big problem. When you take, on the other hand, yes, it's clear when you take away some customs goods, they're different seduction procedures, but they don't lead. There are customs goods which, by some gray channels, some roads and unofficial ones, mean, border crossings, Bog knows which way they cross the border and have no origin, no paper or anything else about it, that goods when they enter any country, here in particular in BiH, it is clear to all that they will never be returned to whoever imported it, because there is no origin, there is nothing about it, so who, I can say freely, smuggled and imported unauthorized into BiH. Whoever goes through the official border crossing and possibly if he lacks some of the customs documents to import the goods and that goods are eventually seized for some reason and that someone brings back what it lacks, he gets his goods back, and that goods is being put into circulation. But I repeat once again, so I'm the first act, or the first process of stockpiling and taking over goods is the same for one category and for another, it needs to be clearly separated, because it's not the same goods, it's not the same goods. So, the first one I've ever talked about will definitely never be returned and can be immediately released into the process further, let's say, exploitation. For this other item that I was talking about, it means if we alienated it in any other way or given it, if it were given to someone, borrowed, donated or anything, BiH would bear sanctions, or it would have to pay compensation for the imported goods. So it is necessary to clearly differentiate the goods that can possibly be returned to the one that, immediately in the beginning, is known to be never returned and the goods will be treated differently. That's number one. Furthermore, we have visited, as I said, those warehouses where these vehicles are, it's a complete disaster, these vehicles are on the leased customs premises, so these are the premises of some people who aren't owners, mostly not the property of the BiH state, the administration and what I know, but they're rented spaces and in these leased spaces are lagered vehicles, and those vehicles are primarily 46 faded and in no condition, as far as this looks like, because they're under the clear sky, so they're exposed to all the atmospheres and this one, these vehicles definitely don't look as they were, certainly, as they were when they were seized. So that's the first thing. The other thing, these vehicles are visible, so that, that they've been taken from them all and everything, on some, missing means and the door, the driver's licensee, the hood, Bog knows what parts there are, so he sees only in the tracks of some vehicles he hardly knows who these vehicles are. And clearly, I think that's what my colleague Tomić was talking about, that these vehicles came in driving. I think, so I don't have to be right, I think that everything and one vehicle was brought in and parked, and that the devasting occurred in those customs warehouses themselves, that that's it, that those parts were taken off in that warehouse. And it's no secret, I believe none of you believe that someone brought a shell or Bog knows what. What's still very important, when you take it, these vehicles are, here's a concrete example, so I've noticed a very large number of field vehicles. These ground vehicles can serve many public enterprises, public institutions, etc., not to mention. They could have, then, but now there's also one legal regulation that would regulate it, and that's also our problem, those vehicles could be in service today and taken away in the customs procedure. I'm telling you responsibly that any institution, company, anyone, if we assigned any of those vehicles to them, would have failed less than they did there, because they failed by that human factor, the parts were torn off, and there's definitely nothing left of them. I think it takes a little creativity here, we're not rich enough to make that stuff go down that way. According to my data, so according to the data we picked up on those field checks there, there's a lot of tens of pounds of gold taken from customs warehouses, a dozen pounds of gold that's definitely standing there right now waiting for something. Definitely these things need to be resolved, because let me be sure that Bosnia and Herzegovina is that it can be one of the significant inflows, so whatever it looks like. What's very devastating is that we found out the same thing back there on the ground, that very large amounts of food are going down. Very large amounts of fruit, vegetables, dairy products, which are not all, means goods that are completely correct and these goods fail, and these goods are written off, throw away, Bog knows how and how it ends, and definitely means hospitals, health homes, pensioners' homes, etc., etc., public cuisine and I don't know what you don't know, that goods could definitely be used. What's the same additional problem, means very large amounts of textiles are seized, so clothes and shoes. And it's definitely going down most of the time in some of the ruins that are sneezing anyway. So, definitely, we're definitely getting one big minus, we can, and here I'm going to be free so I'm going to tell myself we can or we can give the institutions a minus, one big minus as far as taking away the customs goods, because we don't use it in any way. We definitely treat it like we care so much and we don't need it for nothing and as if no citizen of BiH could serve it as a life for anything. So, here's not to be too long, this is one, let's say, life's question that we need to solve. The situation is alarming, we'll all say it's not an alarming state, the state is alarming for 15 years, no one's done anything here for 15 years and more. So let's get serious, and I support this Boskov proposal, means that the Council of Ministers is absolutely determined accordingly. Let us no longer waste this goods, because everything and everything that can benefit the citizens of BiH is going down. Thank you. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16992	Thank you. Discussion, Ambassador Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16993	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, the report, as you said, is very good for me, and it points to the fact that everything should be done, especially this part of the conclusion, but it also points to something, indicating exactly how we are, how we work and how we act. What my colleague said, Saša, now that we've had a chance to see it, it's devastating to see what it looks like, it's embarrassing to see what it looks like. On the other hand, the question arises, and I could ask myself a question because I was chairman of the Management Board, and here is the situation of my colleague Negić now in the audit, he was one of the directors at the Administration and this one could... Meritly open the debate here why it is so and why we did no longer make this happen like this. Here's the truth somewhere in between. When you look at these things that stand, then you see that, and you know how management is established, that it's a transfer of jurisdiction, and then when we get to the Management Board, we make certain conclusions or decisions that we should have made for these cars, and then we get to the fact that we block those decisions. So the second time we came to block the decision the same way that we were supposed to connect the systematization of the administration, where we were supposed to make this department that was going to deal with this, and so I'm not talking, one day after another, day after day. But objectively there are those real problems that are related to legality, because here puts one big risk of post-festum responsibility, what can happen afterwards. You, well remember that there were cars and they're, here's the biggest object of this story, that we've had a little bit of vehicles in use that are just, I think, up to seven years old. How can we put cars up to seven years old? How can we put into function now the cars that have passed seven years, and the huge number of cars, 90% of these cars have been in service for over seven years, and then you're putting in a function of a car that can't be sold, you're selling that can't be registered, or someone might, I don't know, listen blindly because it's a state-run institution, and they're going to register. But I doubt it will. Thus, it was necessary to achieve an immediate agreement of the change of the entity-level law that vehicles could be registered there, all the regulations and procedures that stand, automatically failed. I was one of the advocates that after a little time to oversell it, sell it, make some public auction and those who deal with waste, at least not pay those rent costs, then a very fast story, thesis – see what they do, destroy the common good, it can be used etc. Well, it's been five years since then, now we've only paid five years more of that storage room and renting those rooms. The other is a problem that is tied up, food is corrupt, and in principle it all comes down to how long the procedure is being taken away. It's a very small number of goods, what someone said, that you don't know who imported it, you have every time someone drives, so there's a car, there's a owner, there's something, and every time it ends in a administrative procedure, and most often in a second-degree procedure or in a court, and it's a process that lasts for a year. If you, I don't know, were driving meat or vegetables, some perishable goods, you absolutely don't have a solution for anything, you can't sell before the procedure, or you need to pass a law that can be sold before the procedure, but then you go into one huge risk everyone will bring you some cheap bought meat, so that you sell it, and they will charge for it because they bought it cheaper. They're, here's just one of the traps that can appear in this process. 48 The third problem that was then, I remember it well, was cigarettes. There's been a lot of counterfeit stamps, and you take away the stuff with those stamps on how to put it into operation. So, as soon as you've put something into circulation that's not legal, so it's a cigar, it's any product, you've actually made chaos on the market that no one can control anymore, because as a state, you let illegal goods go into circulation and then you get into other problems that you're supposed to abuse. I remember when we donated, they wouldn't come and take over. Even certain humanitarian organisations, even institutions that deal with people, maintain, homes, didn't want to come for certain, here's what the people like to say, these rags imported from China, Turkey, what's cheaper goods probably. Food also, I remember even that report at the Council of Ministers. In order not to be all in the opposite direction now, is it, from what the predecessors have said, I just wanted to say from practice that there have been a lot of problems, but these conclusions suggest that certain things can still be done through legislation, through negotiation, which I especially insist on when it comes to management, we all know that jurisdiction has been passed on, we know that the Board of Directors can block any decision. It is very important to reach a consensus if something like this is to be done and to make certain rules and then to make a passability at least to reduce. And by the way also to say one of the problems that I forgot, every time we wanted to create a certain regional centre, a warehouse, we've always stopped or at the insurance fund so that, here we've just done, I think the last center opened in Tuzla, these other centers are little or no equipped, and it should be done... in normal functioning, systematization adopted as far as I know a month ago, working on it. These are all some shifts and here I think you can do better, you need more and better, but you need a lot of energy, a lot of bargaining, a lot of some common interests to match up, and I think both the Administration and the Management Board and the Council of Ministers and entities involved should be the ones that will help to get rid of this better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16994	Thank you. Dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16995	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I am pleased that this discussion about this report on the impact review of our institution, the Office for Audit, means the BiH institution. And in this report, here we can see the meaning, and teach and perform certain lessons and conclusions. The conclusions are at the end of the report, the recommendations are at the end of the report, so this only tells us about our trom and inefficient political, legal and any other system. We can also relate a little bit to the previous agenda point, when there was a debate on the proposal for a law on the protection of witnesses reporting corruption, etc., so from this report I see corruption, not only corruption but huge crime in this report. Now, what are our mechanisms? What it says is that the legal state of these mechanisms would be very easy to establish, because here if we have in this report that the value of the goods taken away, these institutions that were 49 participated in the confiscation of goods, 9.6 million marks, that the judgments were worth 7 million marks, and that the goods were sold for its nominal value of 3.5 to 5% of its value. It is clear to you that in BiH institutions, as I said earlier, in those who should fight corruption and crime, corruption and crime are present. Maybe that's not why they blame those people. We're responsible. We are responsible to the extent that we need to pass clear laws and, as part of these clear laws, a clear chonogram of what should happen at any time. If we mention here, since there are a lot of medics in Parliament, the anaphylactic shock knows exactly what to do, how to do, it is known. So there's no question about whether I should have done this, whether I should have done that. So they exist there in those health institutions everywhere, very clearly and for those who are less educated, very clear rules of the game in case it happens, give it this much, this much, this much. That's what we have to do here. I was, when we discussed one occasion on the Law on the establishment of the BiH State-level Agency on the management of temporary assets, so I showed one example. When I organized one opportunity in West Herzegova County with the prosecution, the judiciary, the police commissioner, I don't know, by inspection, one meeting of what with those hijacked vehicles in the warehouse, which every day seem less and less like vehicles. Then when they were taken away, they were new auditions, some new Mercedes, and as time goes by, they just look like these vehicles, or they used to be vehicles, like we have here in the picture, where from, I don't know, 3/4 vehicles or even more, they're not in any kind of driving condition, and it's very difficult to get them into driving. So who did it? So if the Directorate of Direct Taxation, if the Border Police, I don't know, if any agencies have taken any new cars under suspicion that it was stolen or anything, and put them on the warehouse of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, you've seen from this report, they're not even small about these rentals paid by the BiH state, that these warehouses would have just destroyed that goods, did they, the one whose value is 9.6 million, in order to bring it down to 5% of some maybe 350 to 400 thousand marks. We pay exactly that much storage space from the BiH budget. It would not be, since there are here, that colleagues have already proposed that... some conclusions and initiatives, that the Council of Ministers or that the Commission of Parliament for Economic Relations propose amendments to the law that are currently in force, so that these laws are simply effective. According to colleague Jovičić, we should do an analysis of the effectiveness of the implementation of the law in life, in practice. If the law is a dead letter on paper, then there's nothing. That's why I'm kind of thinking... about how I'd do it. To record all the goods taken away at the moment at the Court of BiH, to organise a special department that will deal with the fact that these processes are not being handled so much, as you saw in the report taken 35, so three years standing in the warehouse, failing. Who's gonna buy it and what's its... value? Not at all. But it needs to be settled immediately, so if someone gets a state in the process, make up for the damage, and believe it's like that, here's the report that 95% of these litigation cases got the IRS. I say there's a way, we need to deal with it. This is a very correct report. But we need to learn something from this report, and we need to change something. I am counting on today, from this report that we need to take to knowledge and adopt, because it is very correct, it shows unfortunately our reality, our impotence, that all BiH institutions are working and that we ourselves are going to adopt certain rules of the game, certain laws, and to improve this, that here next year, if Bog gives this time of report that we are discussing in a very different and positive way than it is today. Thank you. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16996	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Niko Lozančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16997	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I won't particularly praise this report, I mean, because it's expected well, so there's no need. There's something else I've been thinking about since I read this review report. The audit, i.e. the Audit Office, accidentally came to mind to carry out an audit of the impact of the confiscation of goods management in customs proceedings. I'm saying by chance, maybe it's not an accident. What would happen if it didn't happen to them? There's a problem. I remember that in the last term it must mean, surely in the last meeting of this same House, that the MPs were asking questions about the problem of a number of hijacked motor vehicles and what's going on with it. I think my colleague Jovičić asked those questions. I see a proposal for a possible conclusion. So, we only have one little problem here that has some financial value in terms of goods taken away in customs procedures. But there are a whole series of other procedures that also take away some goods. Criminal, misdemeanor practices of other species, not just customs, means. Who's running this stuff today? How is this slave managed? And here we see, it means that in the space that's been leased, which we're still paying for, which is leased as space, especially for keeping that stuff, that it doesn't mean anything at all, which is some kind of special space. For example. We see cars, so that's where they're taking who gets there. I didn't see those vehicles, I saw the pictures here. So it's like you left somewhere in a field where no one manages it and takes what anyone wants. And interestingly, it's been going on for years. Someone on behalf of this country, using the powers given to it by law, took this goods from someone, so on our behalf, they took away the goods, with the guarantee that they would manage it in a legitimate manner. This is totally irresponsible management of this stuff. I'm not gonna use any other terms. But if someone convinces me that a warehouse can alienate thousands of parts of thousands of vehicles and nobody knows anything, so we make a fool of ourselves. The problem of another species is being shown here. So this is where the law is proposed that, I think, there are two... identical proposals for a conclusion, a hasty adoption of a law that will be managed by goods taken away in customs procedures. We had here in the procedure, and I don't know now that, uh, the law on the management of goods taken away, it seems to me in criminal proceedings. And why don't we have one law. So here I am speaking now, thinking out loud here, that would... manage the goods that have been taken away in any action. So it was taken away on behalf of the state. Here we have, here we don't have this one, or I haven't come across that part or I've overlooked, we don't, I guess there are examples of taking drugs. What happens when you take the drugs? How do you treat them? What happens when you take away huge amounts of narcotics? What happens then, how is it done? Is there somewhere that, does anyone know how to do it, is it being destroyed, is it being sold, is it being given to someone, is it being donated? What happens today, a colleague mentioned an example, meaning traffic, as it is called, explosives used for economic purposes. So, illegal explosive traffic. What happens when such goods are taken away? Is it the same thing that happens to these cars? 51 And, minimum means this, I assume this report is addressed to the Council of Ministers because there are certain recommendations concerning the Council of Ministers. I agree, I think that several MPs, especially respected counterpart Azra Hadžiahmetović, said that the findings of the audits and recommendations are in absolute dissension, were overly soft recommendations. At least which, in conclusion, if it is necessary to conclude that this report is delivered to the Council of Ministers and that an emergency procedure is sought, I will not say just by recommendation, according to the findings in this Report. And I absolutely think it's necessary to deliver this report to the D.A.'s office, because it's obvious that there's a lot here, at least there's a lot of irresponsible relation to public goods, not to mention a lot of other things.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16998	Thank you. And the last one for discussion was signed up by Honourable Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u16999	Thank you, Chairman. My thoughts are also on the trail of my predecessors. In fact, these facts indicate that there is general negligence for the general good and public interest of the state. The question is, who's to blame for this? Well, of course they're guilty of running the staff, which I was talking about at one of the previous points, so the heads of state, senior state officials, are absolutely responsible. I must say that as minister, I was minister in the RS and vice-president of the government, that I took eight vehicles from customs as a ministry, as inspectors. I didn't buy, I didn't buy any vehicles as a minister. But unfortunately, after I left, there came a little man who, to make a big deal, he bought some of the Mercedes, the latest BMW, which, by the way, paid vehicles for that ministry one 350,000 marks. _________(?) That little man. Yeah, that little man, let's call him that. And what's different than a man, what's different? It's like Kunić didn't know, for instance, when he was a minister, that he'd get one of the bad guys' vehicles if he got into the scheme, that he bought those vehicles. I'm even offered to buy. I just want to give you an example of how executive power works, executive power. And it should be kept strictly within the frameworks and under control, executive power. That's why I often, I'm often gunned down when MPs are in control, and they don't actually have any power. They have great power to pass laws, to limit others, from courts to Council of Ministers and others. And so I suggest that the law be passed and, of course, urgent. - It is up to the Council of Ministers to urgently propose to the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly the law on the management of the seized property in all proceedings. I wrote... criminal and administrative proceedings and customs proceedings. [[You don't understand.]] It's the only way to put these things on some healthy legs and, of course, through that law should take advantage of the opportunity to establish control mechanisms. So 52 control mechanisms need to be established and we won't have... You can't set it up for human beings. You can put it behind bars. So why am I against this being regulated by sublaws? There is a real danger of underlaws in modern legal systems, especially in the EU. Especially in the EU, where you have the will of executive structures that adapt and regulations to yourself and your own interests. And that's why... so the laws are you. Of course, today you have a tendency that parliament should be a parliament that votes, that all other bodies should be left behind, etc. All this comes from the EU. But I'm not optimistic about this legal system in the future being able to work. So I wouldn't leave this to the Council of Ministers, not if I had some relationship with the Council of Ministers, mistrust, etc., but I wouldn't give the executive authority at all to regulate these issues by sublegal acts. So there's a lot of reasons for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17001	Thank you. You can see we're thinking the same thing at the club. I've suggested a similar conclusion, not knowing that you've already proposed it, so I'm going to withdraw my conclusion, so we can vote on one conclusion. Here's after what we said the last one checked in, a distinguished colleague, Slavko Jovičić, has something to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17002	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll do it very briefly, so just to the background of this story and a proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished professor Kunić. And to say, I don't want to return the rematch to the college, and to thank my esteemed colleague Lozančić for commending me, fellow Jurišić, I don't know, and it's good to mention ourselves in the affirmative sense and good suggestions, but I have to say, I really need the law here, and I need to mention these distinguished fellow auditors right now. But to remove every naivety from myself. We got the recommendations, so is anyone really naive here and thinks that when these auditors came that all of them, where they visited these, gave them all a look at those papers? Well, gentlemen, the auditors, it's a great honor for you, and I always praise you for a reason, but 10 thousand times there are bigger maherers there, those thieves who take off the new vehicle parts, and as soon as you leave, you see, you've found the car, it's not in the driver's condition, and as soon as you're gone, in five days, everything they've stolen, they come back, they're sitting and they're driving the best vehicles. Listen to 2,600 cars and only 9 straight cars. So whose cars are these? Did that car fly or were they all broken by boat and only our customs service, the border police seized them, and 2,600 cars? So did they have tires? First of all, when it's a joke that it's a joke, so if they had a steering wheel, so whether they had gas in them or if it really was a car, the kids were playing at school and drew 2,600 cars and these came in and seized. Come on, guys, let's be serious. I say, first I take all my naiveties away, because I've been fighting for years, and I've done, I've fought, I've had little success, I have to admit against thieves. Because a man can't do anything. So we're going back to that political will again. So I will support this proposal that Mr. Živković already intended to propose it, and don't secretly say, respecting the proposal of Mr. and Honorary Professor Kunić, but let the SNSD also be mentioned that we thought the same thing. Don't tell me 53 like that, there's someone else, although Professor Kunić is with us and everyone is with us. It doesn't matter which club, but this SNSD suggests, the SNSD is on top, of course, so I'll always say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17003	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17004	Well, here, I'll put you there, and you're with us. So let me finish. Honorable auditors, all honors of recommendation and let this go before the Council of Ministers, but I would like not to be an auditor, that once you go somewhere to do these audits, invite me to draw attention to what you have to do behind the building, not in the office where you do it, what you need to see behind the warehouse there, which they put away before your arrival, so they will return when you leave, and what will be sold tomorrow at Arizona. Now these are the reports that this Parliament will never get, which you'll never, dear colleagues, see, which no service will stop. Now, that's the thief who violates everything in BiH and huge money and millions, whatever number you say you won't be wrong, that's where it spins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17005	Thank you. We also have Deputy Chief Auditor Dževad Nekić with us today. Do you need to say something about this report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17006	I welcome the Vice-President, the delegates and all the others present. First, I would like to thank all those who have actively taken part in the discussion today in this audit report, and I would like to perhaps answer some of the questions that have been raised through these discussions. Nothing really happens in the review by chance, and the motive of the Office for Audition, for conducting this very audit itself, was actually financial reports that we pointed out in the previous period that there are significant problems, when it comes to the management of the taken-off goods, then media reports that pointed to significant crime that, especially when it comes to carjacking. What I would also like to point out and for which there may have been no such comments, but really perhaps very important to look at the very source of the problem, where and how it happened. As Mr. Vrankić said, I was indeed one of the executive executives at the Directorate for indirect taxation and I also know the problem. Therefore, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that a large number of these vehicles were actually taken over by former customs administrations, which had not made any assessment, but simply had to be handed over to the Authority. Then, a good part of these vehicles, as has already been said, could not be customsated for a reason that had a limit of seven years. And now, at least in our opinion, it's impossible to carry out the very type-approval procedure. However, we cannot justify that nothing could be done. Indeed, it could, however, have been a complex decision-making process when it comes to the administration itself for indirect 54 taxation, the existence of the Management Board, in fact, it's also one of the reasons why all this was happening. And that is why we have also classified such recommendations and we have said that there are certain responsibilities, i.e. recommendations of those which the Council of Ministers should implement, then recommendations that the Management Board and, normally, the Directorate for indirect taxation themselves should implement. We have forwarded this report to the competent law enforcement institutions, so that a normal reaction can be expected from these institutions. What I would also like to answer, and it is about highlighting the very recommendations that do not correspond to the conclusions. In accordance with international audit standards, the facts of the recommendations should be clearly defined and they are. However, recommendations should be made for you to say what should be done, not in what way. And I think through this very classification as indicated, a lot of this can be derived from, and normally by making certain normal, as I've seen there is a conclusion for managing all goods. In order to do so, it is especially good that the indirect taxation administration itself does not manage only this slave taken away in the customs procedure, but also the goods taken away in the mandatory collection procedure itself. So, only within one institution do you already have more procedures and especially as there are other institutions that also manage, which take away goods in certain procedures. When, what is very important, and this is also highlighted here in the discussion, when it comes to giving, about donating taken goods. They're really there, at least I know there were significant problems. And there would be a great, actually a relief would be the Directorate for indirect taxation if someone else were to take over that goods and deal with the whole management process, and only donations were actually made on the basis of the Council of Ministers' decisions. And this stuff couldn't possibly be donated to a good part, because the reason for the long stand in the warehouses is, in fact, the processes themselves, the court processes take a long time, and simply when the goods come as the subject for sale, it's difficult to achieve a significant value for the goods sold. And that is why you have probably seen, in the report itself, that the values, the prices they have achieved, are significant, but the effort and work and the costs that have followed such donations and sales are extremely high. And once again, I would like to thank you all, and I think that as the Audit Office, we are actually at the back of that conclusion, which you as Parliament have made, to increase the number of impact audits and this is already the tenth report that we have delivered in the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17007	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on the eighth item of the agenda. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Milorad Živković to discuss the proposal for a law on the availability of immovable military property - Proposers: MEPs of the SDP BiH Club and the SBB BiH, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which reads: "The BiH Council of Ministers is in charge that, 55 by the end of September 2013, the Law on the availability of immovable military assets and the Law on State Property" This proposal for a conclusion at the 52nd session of the House was sent to the College as the Commission for subsequent alignment. The college didn't achieve consent, and there's no debate here. We're going to the 10th item of the agenda, Ad. Ten. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of the SDA's MPs to discuss the Security State of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2012, which reads: "In the opinion of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH, in conclusion under a) to amend the text, saying: What is being done in the context of sector security and law enforcement agencies to avoid negative implications for BiH due to the participation of its citizens in wars in other countries"
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17010	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17012	So, if you look at the record from last session, this is all true what you said, however, it also says that the House will declare at the next session on receiving information and declare its conclusion, the proposal for the conclusion of Beriz Belkić. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The record doesn't say that we pleaded and I don't remember.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17014	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17015	We planned what you were talking about, Mr. Belkić, at the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17016	You planned it. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17017	There's been a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17018	Because we had a discussion. Although this, this is, this is my suggestion by the secretary, but it seems to me that you...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17019	You know what I'm saying. I didn't want to cause any trouble when... the agenda, but you, the Information wasn't adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17020	He's got his conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17021	If you'll let me read this to the end. I think we'll solve the problem. Thus, the College of the House did not reach agreement on this conclusion at the 52nd session. I would like to remind you that, in the course of the vote, following a statement on this proposal for a conclusion, we will also speak out on the proposals for the Joint Commission's Opinion, and on the proposal for the conclusion of MEP Beriz Belkić. Here I think we just explained this.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17022	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17023	It can't even be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17024	We're going to the 11th point of the agenda, Ad. 11. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament's Mirsad Đugum on the debate on giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe Development Bank, which reads: "It is the responsibility of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs to adopt a Health System Reform Strategy in BiH within 90 days" The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, We will subsequently enter into a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. There's no debate here either. Before we move to the 12th point of the agenda, the College has agreed to take one break an hour, but if you agree as MPs that this break lasts until 3:00 a.m., since we all have some obligations during that period of break, so I think this is an established practice 57 that at this time we're giving a break, and we've scheduled some meetings in this break, when you're at lunch, some meetings with the ambassadors, so yes. Thank you. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17028	So here's what I suggested at the 52nd session to be a session. I can suggest that now and indeed say that I am very uncomfortablely surprised by the letter sent by the Attorney General. He and Parliament are communicating through a press release and his paintings, I guess if we don't recognize him, we can see who he's talking about. So, this whole report doesn't make sense unless the chief prosecutor shows up at this session. I suggest we take this point off the agenda and wait until he shows up at the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17029	Thank you. There is also a word from Deputy Chairman Milorad Živković's House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17030	I thank the chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Let's think, let's move on – what if this happens again next time, this is the second time it's happened again. Are we ready to move on? Are we ready? I've asked this House once for this speaker. And I also gave the conclusions on this -- that the secretariat should be ordered to file criminal charges, to open a trial against the people we consider not to be doing their job, including the district attorney. We cannot talk this way to an institution that does not feel that it is responding to anyone, not even to this Parliament. Or are you ready for the next session not to begin until the High Court and Prosecutorial Council comes before us where this Parliament will be tasked with electing prosecutors as we have agreed here. So I am not in favour of inviting prosecutors in infinity and he is sending us his cards, 58, but we are in order for this Parliament to line up or order, as I have already suggested once. If you're up for that option I am for this proposal, if you're not for that option I don't see any reason for us to invite someone in... he won't come to us, and to make that situation more or less unembarkable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17031	Thank you. Replication to the presentation of counterparts Živković, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17032	We could have finished this point today on condition that a planned agenda item called the High Court and Prosecutor's Council report was considered, we know that President Novković apologized and said he couldn't come but that next time, because it would be a satisfaction because of him we can, as a regulator, correctly assess what he can do to the prosecution's behaviour. So, we have two options -- to wait for the next session, and on that occasion we're also going to discuss the High Court and Prosecutorial Council report, and also to wait for another one, here's the prosecutor's arrival. And if that's not what we have left to do then that's all we have to do. But it's important that the High Court and Prosecution Council says... about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17033	Thank you. ...to the proposal we heard, then that colleague Jovičić, we don't spread the discussion or we'll open discussions. [[Common discussion]] ...it's already open. Mr. Jovičić has a word, Beriz Belkić, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17035	Well, you see, Mr. Živković asked, I don't know if I get it right, you asked this whole Parliament if we're ready or not ready. Well, as far as I'm concerned, I absolutely don't think I'm involved in filing a criminal complaint against the D.A., but I don't mind asking the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to investigate the situation. I do not see any reason why we should not end this session today, to consider these conclusions proposed by the Commission and to conclude this story, which has been going on for several months. I don't experience the presence of a prosecutor so cardinally that I can't work without him. It's his job to assess how useful it would be, I don't think it would hurt him if he were here today and yes, it's just the way we communicate with him. We really need to understand that it is two levels of equal government. So, this prosecutor should come here in the sense of the ambience, so to speak, insubordination, not... but in one ambience of co-operation equal, etc. Now the way 59 informs us he won't come is now a matter of taste. If I were to tell you the truth, I don't really like this picture and some statement, etc., it would be correct to say – gentlemen in the atmosphere which, etc., I am not ready for dialogue with you or vice versa. So, let me conclude, I'm not prepared to support these criminal charges, I'm prepared to support a request for the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to verify whether the prosecutors acted in accordance with the law or not, and I'm prepared to conclude this story today and make clear of the proposed conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17036	Thank you. Ambassador Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17037	Why don't you skip me?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17038	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17039	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Only a stenogram works at two, three sentences I'll repeat what I said when we postponed this point for today. To be clear to all of us, it is clear that this Parliament does not elect a prosecutor in charge, he is not obliged to answer to us and will never, last time I said, come. We can postpone another 100 sessions by the end of the term, he won't come. I would support the proposal of a distinguished colleague, Živković, to file a criminal report, but to whom. It's him again. So will he press charges against himself? Never in my life. But let us understand once the impotence of this House. So the people we choose do not respond to this Parliament either. He is not elected, elected by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council with the help of representatives of the international community. A man will not come, let it be clear to us now – he will never come to our call, nor can we commit him to any application, not by any means, neither do I, nor by any other. ... The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council will now accept Parliament's recommendation to relieve him, yes. They never will. So let us once understand our role and show it clearly here – until Parliament elects prosecutors at all levels and judges. We'll never be able to do them, I'm not asking us to choose prosecutors and judges for the sake of having some influence on them, but to lay down some right to Parliament. The only way, I said in the last session, I'm going to do it again now, is now that we're going to look at the budget and let's say -- how much budget is foreseen, 4 million, and now you're going to get just a million. They'll all come from the D.A.'s office here. First they protest and strike, then they'll head up with the D.A. to sit here in the O.R. It's the only way. The only thing that comes to money is people, what the people would say, in the harshness of the stick. So we don't have the power or the stick here, we have the money, if we can use the money to do what we can do with the budget, force it, they'll come and dot it. _________(?) But you didn't say who the bear was. 60 I'm the one who's saying this.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17041	Thank you. Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17042	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. The agenda we are discussing today is a discussion of the opinion of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH with a proposal for a conclusion on the blockade of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions since 05-07-06.2013. So we have the opinion of the Joint Commission and that's the topic we need to discuss today. We once postponed the debate over the fact that most parliament has estimated that the chief prosecutor should be present here. For me, the chief prosecutor is not the primary figure in this situation that should be present here, for me, quite other issues are very important and very important, but it is obvious that some of the members of the Commission, especially from the chairman of the Commission, are trying to impose this kind of relationship, or relations, or... about this event as the main line on Parliament's main prosecutor. I don't think that's the case. I, after all that I've heard so far, said I publicly and say it, and now, I have an understanding of the prosecutor's procedure because acting like this by Parliament, calling, doing all this that has been done so far, and not expecting a reaction from the other side, I think it's unrealistic. And this is, I mean, that kind of reaction. Is she okay or isn't she okay, that's another question now, but I think we should do our job today and turn to the very essence of the problem. The issue, therefore, is the citizens' protest in front of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the blockade that was here and we need to talk about it. I have talked about it at the Commission, I have offered a set of conclusions which are unfortunately not accepted at the Commission's session, I will only renew them today, I think that we as Parliament need to take a responsible step in this situation and we need to respond to everything that is being set before us as Parliament and it is about these protests. And so I've lined up the priorities of my conclusions, and I'm going to read them now, and I'm going to let them multiply and, of course, make decisions. They were on the Commission, I said already, unfortunately not accepted. First, I believe that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives should show full understanding of the legitimate demands made by citizens at the 05th and 06th June 2013 protests in front of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building as well as throughout BiH. The House of Representatives should express its commitment to the realization of legitimate requirements for citizens. And so should the responsible Parliament, because these people have spoken to us. We are not here for ourselves, but, among other things, for those people who were in front of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building, as well as throughout BiH. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives finds that the issue of citizens' protests in front of BiH institutions is not properly arranged, especially given the different powers of different levels of government. It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to settle the issue or propose a way to resolve the issue to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. 61 3. The BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with considering the issue of co-ordination in the work of different police agencies so that police agencies act effectively and functionally as a single system in the future. 4. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives believes BiH citizens have the right to non-violent protests but that no one has the right to block the work of institutions and restricts the freedom of movement of others. And I think this is a set of conclusions that offers a solution to the overall situation that we have. Anything else, everything that is beyond this for me, among other things, is an attempt to politicize and distract attention from the very essence of the problem. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17043	Thank you. Replica, deputy chairman Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17044	Various countries are struggling in different ways with something, with some events that have happened, so I will list two countries in Turkey and Bulgaria. Whether those conclusions you have proposed could be proposed to parliaments in Turkey or the parliament in Bulgaria to adopt the same thing. Countries that are states are fighting by constitutional and executive means against violent demonstrations, against events they characterise in this way, and countries that have no, no means, no executive authority, or do not want to use it, are fighting conclusions. I can only conclude that, unfortunately, BiH can only fight with conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17045	Ambassador Adnan Bašić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17046	I wouldn't want this to be some kind of sharp replica against anyone in this House. I'll tell you more from the sentimental point of view of all of us here who often forget that we're people first and then everything else. Believe me, this is the first time I've said this in public, that night I could have come out if I wanted to, I believe most of you know that. Out of collegiacy, out of a sense of respect for you and gratitude for the way you've accepted me for all this time, out of great respect for what we have today and what is the symbol of every country and this is his Parliament, I think I should have stayed with you and stayed alone. On the other hand, if I reverse this situation from my mind, it was really embarrassing what was going on in the biggest legislative body and the pride of a state. It must never happen again, it must never happen again in this country, at least if we decide wisely today what we should do. We have to stop it at all costs. The debate, the conflict with the state's attorney, does not lead to this problem being resolved. Please give it up. We have to find, so as we want to do the work we've committed to and made a solemn commitment, so every segment in this country 62 should do the same. We can only demand of them, if we are required, to respect the Constitution of this country, to respect the laws of this country and to respect the rights of every man in this country. As every citizen had the right to protest peacefully in front of this House, so we have the right to work peacefully in this House. That's the point, and that's what we're talking about today. When we are wise here, we do not all have to be wise Solomons but we can be wise Bosnians and Herzegovians to bring this situation to an end in the right way because we have much more important work to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17047	Replica, MP Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17048	My replica refers to, so I must say, the demagogue of Mr. Džaferović, which is expressed in his conclusions because he said in one of the conclusions that he wanted political actors, or already as he called them, to meet the demands of the people who protested in front of Parliament, and we know that these Protestants when they were there, that night in June of the month, were looking for the Law on a unique birth number. And then your party raises the question of vital national interest regarding this Law in the House of Peoples to which the Constitutional Court has not answered yet, and you ask that we meet some requirements and your party makes a blockade and you prevent the same Protestants from coming to what they were looking for that night. I mean, really when a man listens to you, he wonders if we're really so forced and condemned to listen to anything in this House or to wonder if you're listening to what you're saying and what you're saying in this room.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17049	Replica, MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17050	It's amazing how some people with such simplicity make such heavy accusations and say them here without feeling any responsibility for what they say. It's an amazing thing, but obviously we have to get used to it, so in a structure like this, in a Parliament like this. Unfortunately, it's just like that. All that I have said behind this is that I am standing and we can hold a debate about this, but I would ask you not to be offended and not to give offensive qualifications for the discussions that, as members of this House, we have. So much, nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17051	Drago Kalabić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17052	Since we've become emotional and offensive, we'll try to avoid that part. And when it comes to Mr. Džaferović's discussion, I have a famous sentence from that cultural film 63 Balkan spy, when he says – if you're good, he'll forgive you, Đur, for beating you. That sentence speaks enough of our relationship, of this whole thing. You bring some of them in there looking for something that you're looking for and then you're declaring what the writer wanted me to say and how and how. It would be easier for me if the protests were continued, it would be easier for me if these people were persistent and they were looking for what they were looking for. We know what they're looking for, we know who the fol is, what we don't give, and I don't know... However, it is not true that there were protests of citizens in Sarajevo, it is not true. Unfortunately, time proved that it was a difficult manipulation of various groups and individuals and organizations that broke up like a soap bubble after the command of the entire operation. Because it doesn't make sense, if they were ever to protest, they should protest after the SDA's decision to block the procedure, not the law, the procedure. No, someone said... not a word. That night was supposed to happen something that had nothing to do with citizens, it wasn't citizens, nor legitimate demands, because now it's obvious that the request wasn't even there. Because this Parliament has shown greater insolence not to come to this Law, which is calling for a procedure and preventing it from being initiated by the Constitutional Court, I guess these protests should have been greater. The more the U.S.A. destroyed that law, the more the citizens fled to the holes, the more they sought the Law, the more they ran away from the requirement that the law be adopted. It just means one thing – it's a fat directorship that's very dangerous from this distance. And I don't care about the D.A. or anyone else anymore, I get it. And I have no illusions. If it's about the government's trio, we know where they're coming from, there's a professor of constitutional law here, how to solve the conflict in the government's trio. When there is a conflict between the legislative and executive authorities, there is no example in Europe that the executive power has prevailed, is there? There is no place in Europe with between the judicial and legislative authorities that the prosecutors have taken over Parliament anywhere, because everyone is the source of parliamentary democracy, and then out of it... If it all works out, it's a good trio, but people have shown us if it doesn't work out how it works. Here, said counterparts Živković, Turkey and Bulgaria have chosen one way, some other countries another way, but none have allowed this to be resolved outside Parliament and through Parliament, through law, through executive authority and the rest. Only this country doesn't want the state to be arranged is it wants to stay under the protectorate and it wants to serve the power centers that squat in Sarajevo parks and race and create... And here they keep not building institutions, but they simply use the centers of power, and then one day they block us, one day they attack us, one day they come in here, they paint us, they write us, I don't know what's not happening, they humiliate us in all sorts of ways, they humiliate us in all sorts of ways. Look who was all involved in those demonstrations. Well, I guess that unfortunate mayor when he saw that the SDA blocked the law was at least a turn to come out and say, "people, what are you doing?" No, and he was part of the script, like a muscle crawled into some hole he no longer cares about the law, or fate, or anything else. That night he was probably ordered to go out there to try something, and he turned poor when he saw not all those who had been told he would come and the like. And after he kept quiet, and that night he was ready to jump in, I expected him to jump out the window to catch us here. And that's proof of manipulation, he's living proof of manipulation. And then away from the Sarajevo police who place the bill to foreign embassies and no one else, that's obvious. They took command that night from other centres of power, not from the institutions of this state. And what do you expect the D.A. to say here? He'd have to confirm this. And if he did, he'd have to react. We will only legalize that this country is allowed and legally to break down in any part of the country, including Parliament and around it. So, what do you have to talk about, initiatives in some parts of the country, when different initiatives are sought there, you need to keep your mouth shut. You let them out here, it's rude to call them a group, there were those who are close to multiple hordes, what 64 are called those horda zlo fans, that's legal, is that right, is that a legitimate name, which has nothing to do with civil protests. ... legalized that it was allowed to tear this Parliament down to things that..., time has shown, it has nothing to do with it, because after the behaviour of certain political parties it has proved that they fuck with that law as it does with last year's snow. Those parties wouldn't have the courage to do what they did if those citizens took their protests seriously. And that's where I take off my hat. Foreigners of democratic action because they knew, managed the process, and they don't care what those people thought because they controlled and managed them. And there's no problem with them controlling and managing, the problem is that the state parliament has been blocked under threat and everything that's happened and that's been allowed. And that's what he wants to legalize now, to say what he's saying, and what's the biggest problem, Mr. Živković, is that it's allowed and we wait for when it's going to happen again, because why don't you repeat it to someone else. Why don't you repeat that when these people are on a case like this, I don't want to prejudge it, but you have 10 groups in this country that can come from a moral point of view tomorrow to block, which are 10,000 times more right than those who were wrong, because they were manipulators when it comes to the law. They went out to protest when the decision was made and now they won't protest when the law isn't even in sight. So it's clearly manipulation. God's unions are not manipulations, with unemployed workers, with unpaids, with others, that wouldn't be manipulation. So what tomorrow? They'll be sent to the police. Whether or not he will. In fact, me, I wonder what's going to happen after this. What does this country think about these things? Don't think anything, don't think anything. Here are the interests of groups, the interests of the centres of power and the interests of individual parties far for three spears ahead of the state's interest. It was clearly proven that the state was a cat's tail, because if it hadn't defended the institutions of the state. No, there are more important interests, which were supposed to prevail that night than other interests. If the institutions had defended themselves, I guess they were in the first place, and then we'd be talking about the party, oh, I don't know, about the parties, about the clubs, about the MPs, and now, most tragically, in one way, I'd say, too rudely trying to legalize it. Come on when it's missed, when it happens, people say, let's see what we do. No, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter what people came in front of the cameras blocked with the assistance of the police. This means that the highest state officials and institutions of the state participated in anti-state activities, legally, legitimately, in broad daylight in front of the eyes of the cameras, and there is no reaction to that. It's not the incident, it's not the pressure problem, it's not the robbery problem, it's not the happening problem, it's the answer to what's happening. There was no answer and what's blackest, come on what wasn't, it's not the only situation in which there was no answer, but now it's trying to legalize the situation that shouldn't be..., that it shouldn't respond to such events. And then tomorrow, when some building on the ground burns down, what does it matter? When they were able to do what the State Parliament had to do with what had to do with burning down a municipality building or some disgruntled group that was powerful and doing it. And that's why you won't be here, and of course you won't get either the prosecutor or the reaction. If it was a real reaction, we don't need a prosecutor. I agree that in a regular, normal trio, we don't need to communicate with the D.A. this way, but we've been put in a position to ask him what's going on. And we don't have that answer. Well, it doesn't matter that we don't have an answer, that we're not satisfied with the prosecution's position for one thing or another, we're going to insist on the democratic trio of power. And those who insist if they find out anywhere that the pillar of government is enthroned in BiH, find one country of the world in which it is established. He's gone. Find out, I think we would be expelled from all and one European state within 24 hours if we suggested that a stranger enter their justice system. They'd banish us, deport us in the first sentence. And we are that, come on, and that's enough that we legalized 65 to have foreigners manage, but what we have legalized to work against this country, which we have legalized to break up the institutions of this country, is already too much. And that's why I have no suggestions or conclusions, nor do I expect anything, this is clear to me, but very dangerous. The absence of a reaction to what was happening in Parliament is a call to anarchy and an invitation that everything and everything in this country is allowed and that everyone is counting on that there will be no reaction, because it is known who should not only be touched, what Mr. Jovičić just said. You can do all this but there's one thing you can't touch, of course it's not about the state, it's about something outside, and as long as you don't touch that thing, the rest of you can do whatever you want. I'm done, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17053	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17054	Thank you, Chairman. It is being set up, I have a problem with the prosecutor's relationship with this Parliament, so of course with these problems Mr. Kalabić has raised. I'm afraid of the facts of these reactions. We can be smart, we can have some vision of future developments, etc., but this tendency scares me. And all that Mr. Kalabić said stands. This is the collapse of BiH institutions, this is the creation of uncertainty in people, and this is the worst thing that can happen. This is a situation that requires a variety of solutions, and that's why it has to react to this. It's for me, I'm afraid of just that kind of thing, because I don't want to, I'm not the one who advocates that kind of thing. I've talked about the division of power many times. Yes, the rule of law is based, so the basic principle is to divide power. But why is this division of power? It's not about yourself, it's about one government controlling another, so that's the basic reason for the division of power. So please, don't buy into the stories of some, I won't call them what I'm going to call them, let's let the people who say that the judiciary, or the judiciary, is uncircumcised, so it's out of the structure of the government. It's nowhere in the world. Now I'm reading the views of some great judges, they've shown themselves lately, there are no more courts of those who were once in Europe, unfortunately we've witnessed the judgments that fell and we've seen how judges judge, so what phase I don't know about the development of a democratic society, but that's how it is. So relations between governments must be in some balance, creating some equilibris. Well, the prosecutor can't not come to the BiH Parliament, please, so he doesn't have to have a legal obligation at all, a constitutional obligation, so for the sake of Parliament's dignity, he has to appear here, if nothing else. But why isn't he here? Because it has the support of one circle of people, it's obvious, so it has the support of the people of this Parliament, and that's bad. I think it's bad for all of us, and for some more bad, like in that animal farm, some animals are more equal. In this case, no, for some, it's more bad that things like this happen. We said here, we realized, so everyone has the right to demonstrate, of course let them enforce it legally, as the laws predict, and not to endanger people's lives, to limit movement, to limit it in every way, people were ready for a physical reckoning. So where is that, please, one Parliament, so who are we? We have happened to be in this Parliament right now, but this is the Parliament of a state. If there is sovereignty, then sovereignty, then there is the highest sovereignty of Parliament. In the rule of law, however, Parliament is dominant, in the democratic 66 rule of law as it is today. So Parliament has some predominance, and not for the prosecution to be isolated and to be, to say the sea, you don't need to come, of course, it's visible to the debate that it's said you don't have to come, what one side asks you to come, you don't have to come, you can't be held accountable. Of course he won't come, he'll never come. I asked the question, the question is, the things I said at first, the questions of the consequences – what are the consequences – they are far-reaching. People don't have to look at things passively, when something drumming on our heads tomorrow, then we'll say, "We didn't know," that's what's going on. And why we didn't stop, why we didn't activate and use something to prevent that kind of thing. Well, obviously that's not how we do things, that's not how we do things. Well, it must be impossible for the president of the court not to come at the request of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to file a report. What country does he have that in? Well, that High Court and Prosecution Council has been declared to have judges, to pursue discipline, to have some authority over judges, prosecutors. So there's no responsibility. The question arises whether or not other citizens will say so I have no responsibility, to whom I have responsibility. So, all that's bad in particular, especially when it comes to the judiciary that and how, people have a special sensitivity to the judiciary and to its work so far. There are many, many facts that could be used in this House on the work of the prosecution and courts, very, very much. But it stays and it burdens the relationship, burdens the relationship, and it seriously burdens the relationship and those people who want everything best burdens, simply burdens them. And they especially burden the reactions of the people of Parliament who do not want to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17055	Thank you. There are no more discussions reported. We have formally proposed a conclusion to delay the debate, but the debate is, we can say, and implemented. Everyone who wanted to make their views known has already done so. So, unless there's a lot of insistence on voting, let's move on to the next item of the agenda. So I'm closing the debate on the 12th agenda. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda, Ad. 13. Consideration of the Commission's Opinion on Foreign Trade and Customs on the 2012 Agriculture Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Ministry material of BiH (in line with the conclusion adopted at the 52nd session of the House, held on 29.08.2013) At the 52nd meeting of the House, when adopting the BiH Agriculture Report for 2012, a conclusion was adopted – it is up to the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission to set deadlines for the next session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Parliamentary House for the next meeting in the Commission's 2012 Agriculture Report. The Commission submitted deadlines for their implementation with reasons after the conclusion of the House and 17/09/2013. 67 I'm opening a debate. Ambassador Borislav Bojić called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17057	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I will be very briefly given that you have had the opportunity to read these short conclusions, and we have already held a broad debate at the last session on this issue, but there is a need only to explain some solutions and I am glad that Parliament will, therefore, stand behind, hope to stand by proposals that are unanimous, to point out, adopted by the Commission itself. As for this first conclusion where the deadline has been set, this one in December, so at the end of December, concerns all three of these issues, simply to say that the EU's plan to adopt regulatory legislation in the area of agriculture and rural development of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is to prepare, so you know that, along with the relevant institutions of entities and institutions, and these institutions do so every year. Let me just remind you, and simply for the sake of the notice, you know that an inter-resor working group, made up of representatives, both state and entity institutions, that in co-operation with the European Commission, has practically already completed the work on making changes and additions to the Food Act. The work is under way to amend and supplement the Veterinary Act, and the amendments and additions of the Agriculture Act have already been practically prepared and practically this interresor group is here at the end. You all know that the goal of all these activities is to supplement and pass these laws in order to establish so-called. Control chain. This is purely because of the reasons for the proposed deadline that we have submitted. It's about the first conclusion. As far as the second conclusion is concerned, I'm just saying that the deadline for setting up an operational structure is that it's not possible to predict and propose the deadline exactly, because it's simply the matter that needs to be considered the highest political level in BiH. You all know that there have been various meetings, among other things you would mention one of them organised by the Ministry of Foreign Trade, of course the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of the RS and the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry of the Federation and the representative of the Brcko District, and that it is agreed to approach the development of a draft strategic plan for rural development of BiH according to modular approach. I think that, and I expect, the Council of Ministers, which is its chairman, will organise a meeting to be attended by representatives of the entity governments, Brcko District and the competent ministers of the institution, and will discuss the proposed model in order to take a common stance on talks with the European Commission on a proposal for a model... paying agency. And the third conclusion, I think it is prepared and can already be considered in September of the month, but we put in October for the simple reason that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations has already developed a plan for the protection of domestic agricultural production, not agricultural but domestic production, in the context of the application of the CEFTA Agreement and which the Council of Ministers has already adopted. I think the procedure is now being lectured and this, so the document can already be found in front of the Parliamentary Assembly. Not to be obliged, to also inform that the Commission has been tasked with these three conclusions. To inform the Commission, therefore, has also made a unanimous decision regarding the conclusion of my colleague Domazet, not to read it, because you know that it is a long and comprehensive conclusion, that I should only explain that this conclusion will be realised in a way that, in the context of the report in the area of 68 agriculture in 2013, this chapter will be added, as the Proposer himself said – the enterprise sector in the area of agriculture in BiH, under which all the data will be processed as set out in the present conclusion. The deadline for making farm reports for 2013 is May 2014, so that it is practically impossible to implement this conclusion differently. And the conclusion that I have suggested, that I do not read it, which refers to a comprehensive analysis of trade, i.e. agricultural and food products related to Croatia's entry into the EU in the last 90 days. Since the import-export statistics for September will be available sometime after processing by the competent institutions in the second half of October of the month, it is completely realistic that this report will be in front of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH by half of November. I had the need to say these few things, since they are simply, here I say, the conclusions adopted unanimously by the Commission and I expect that by empowering these conclusions, namely by setting deadlines, the institutions that need to do their jobs will be far more responsible and will do these jobs by this specific deadline. If that is not finally, someone will also raise the issue of responsibility for those who do not comply with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's conclusions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17058	Thank you. The word has an MP, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17059	Thank you. The conclusion of two, a deadline for realisation, the 3th position he spoke of on the establishment of a payment system at the level of the BiH state, has been said that the deadline cannot be set. I think this House should in some way order the chairman, and may order the chairman, the Council of Ministers and give him a deadline to hold this meeting, because the establishment of a payment structure at the level of the BiH state, i.e. the establishment of a payment structure, at which level we have not yet made a decision, is the only issue BiH is, because BiH is talking to the EU, because the EU does not want to talk to entities, as we know. So, it's the sole task of us here in Parliament and the Council of Ministers, and so I think we should be able to set a deadline and say, I don't know, if it's 15, 20 days, here I might give the Commission a task, or if today I suggest a conclusion, so within 15 or 20 days, the chairman makes a meeting with the prime ministers and resolution ministers to finally resolve this issue, because I think it's a priority, or to say, no, we don't need gentlemen, we won't waste time on that, and that's the answer, and that's the same solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17060	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the 13th agenda. 69 We move to the 14th point of the agenda, Ad. 14. Consideration of the Opinion of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to determine possible irregularities and abuses and conditions at the Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH This item was included in accordance with the College's decision in the extended composition at yesterday's session. You've received a proposal for a conclusion. I'm opening a debate. The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17062	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. This is a request for an extension, am I right? Let the deadline extend, and let the fee be gone, that's fair. We've said what our assessment of doing, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's not done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17063	Is there more? Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17064	So I can, I have to comment on the rigid attitudes of our colleague Džaferović, who are really rigid. There's some reason, and that's probably why the Secretariat is present, and I've been doing it recently, which is why there's been a major time shift from the moment the commissions form to the moment they officially start working. So the responsibility for the constitution of the commission is not on the board members, but on the College. What is this signal that someone needs to signal to the College to hold a constitutional session, that's really a question? So when we're running, when the deadlines are defined, we really don't take care, here's what we had for this, that investigative committee about, first this one, we had a case somewhere recently that we were establishing a commission before we went on vacations. So it's been a month since the commission couldn't work, it was built only in September. So, I ask that we have no need for these things,...not in this way as Mr. Džaferović, it is a very difficult way for those who have chosen to deal with the Indirect Taxation Department and will certainly have something to do. And indeed it would be incorrect to say, if you do so for glory, and we will remain behind after our engagement in Parliament will go home to rest.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17065	The word has a letter, a replica of MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17066	Mr. Chairman. Nothing is disputed, a deadline is given, a deadline exists, let's take the day when the commission was established, they've been receiving compensation since then, they haven't received it before, at least I guess so. Let's calculate that deadline and let's get paid what's in the first place... this beyond that is all excess. So, I'm not because, I'm not incorrect in my performance that now, for a few months, it hasn't worked, the commission hasn't been established, so now, let me take all that time, there's no problem since the day of the constitution, but let's not go any further. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Oh, don't comment without...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17068	Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17069	Well, I'm probably going to disrupt this idyll, 'cause I'm not going to talk about fees. I would just like to remind myself of my discussion on point 8 when we discussed the Impact Review Report on the subject of ‘Composed Management in Customs Procedures’, among other things, I have then suggested that this Commission, which is now seeking an extension of the deadline, shall, within that extended time, make an insight into this Report and the examinations of the allegations and orders which are, as indicated in the report today, in terms of the assessment of work, i.e. inaction or inadequate work when it comes to the treatment of goods taken from the customs procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17070	Thank you. Replica, deputy chairman Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17071	Thank you. Well, I can accept, in part, the criticism concerning the College for the formation of committees for the simple reason that it was purposely made for this Commission to form after annual holidays so as not to receive a fee for the time it will not spend in Parliament. I don't know if we formed a commission before the holidays, if we did, then I'm taking it, which is why I'm talking, part of it, but not for everyone, then you can say it's for one. And this was purposely done so that this Commission would not receive compensation for what it cannot do. The second thing is, if the commission receives immediately enough material at the start of its mandate that it is aware that it cannot do the job, and the decision itself states that it should be done by the time it is due to finish the job, and 71 has not even been formed, why not give the Commission the right to determine that it needs additional time to finish its job. This commission thought she needed it, based on data right at the beginning of the session that they got about the kind and scope of work, more time to finish it. It wasn't formed in time and I think it's perfectly justified to give it a certain deadline. Why would she come in after two months and say she came in from work in half so we could extend her deadline? I don't think we're spreading the experience, that there are enough arguments to support the Commission's request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17072	Drago Kalabić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17073	Well, I owe you a reaction, although I didn't think I should answer since I'm the chairman of the Commission, but just to help make the decision more easily with two notes. Of course, I won't accept it, and I won't comment on the question of compensation, but I won't accept that it's about work, because if she doesn't like it then there's no payment and then it's changing, so I'm not letting it get tied up. We've made it clear, and here you've seen from these arguments. Secondly, in order not to conduct this partial debate, I would just remind you that the Administrative Commission, which the members know, has come to the conclusion that the thematic session of the Administrative Commission will be on this issue very quickly, means on this issue. So that there may be none, not by any other, because we have all these discussions of this kind and nature, we have come to the conclusion that here, it seems to me that we have set a deadline, when this question will be decided on all these issues, because at one point, we will not be making any ad hoc decisions like this, or we will enter into the unencipated decisions of this kind or that sort. And I hope that the Administrative Commission will make a safe decision the way it is, as it deserves a moment in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17074	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 15th point of the agenda, Ad. 15. Selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance and the selection of one member who will take over instead of a member of the Management Board (rank-list of candidates of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes) The Interim Joint Commission of both homes submitted a report on the establishment of a proposal for a candidate ranking for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency, the selection of one member who will assume his duties instead of a member of the Management Board. 72 Candidates for the selection of three members of the Management Board are ranked in the following order: 1. Aida Abadzic-Abadžić-Hodžić 2. Vlado Majstorović 3.. Stevan Trbojević is a candidate for a member who will take over instead of a member of the Management Board, Zoran Selesković. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 16th point, Ad. 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement on credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe Development Bank (rescheduled statement at the 52nd session of the House, held on 29.08.2013)
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17077	I can't remember that the debate is over because it's an unsettled matter. We heard here in the last session that this wasn't the first negative opinion and that it had been given before. I, I beg your pardon, have checked all these things and that is not true, there is someone here who has deceived Parliament. To remind you, the ratification of the contract, which was said to have been negative, was not a negative opinion, but at the request of the Ministry of Finance, the Commission took off the agenda on 16.07.2013. The same Commission informed the College of Parliament to remove it from the agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly because it also removed its agenda at the request of the Ministry of Finance, and all because in the cantonal negotiations the hospital gave up ratification of the contract. It is not about the negative opinion of our Commission and what we have received last time is the first negative opinion of our Commission. So, if I'm wrong, let those who spoke differently show arguments that they're right. The second thing, the Parliamentary Assembly may give or not give consent, but it cannot change the text and it is clear to all, it is a previous consensus, so the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Commission is not binding on this House, even if it is negative, because it is not a legislative process, but rather a special procedure of giving consent where Parliament is not the final entity in the legal matter but the Presidency. If the Commission is unsatisfactory, I think it should have raised this issue in a different way than by giving a negative opinion for the first time. I'm sorry that some of the RS took part in this, which would have prompted them to think about 73 of the fact that there is some prior agreement here to conclude a contract, which is both the jurisdiction of entities and the canton. I don't know why they did it, and I can't believe they want contracts to be concluded that way, no matter who in power is in the canton or entity, that this Parliament gives the previous consent that they are being negotiated below. I think it was a strange mistake for our people in the Commission and that they saw their mistake. And that is why I call on Parliament to give its consent to ratify this treaty in the way we have done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17078	Coliga Živković asked for business intervention, so we can split this discussion into two parts, as far as business intervention is concerned, and what would be somewhat the subject of the debate at the last session. Regarding this first, therefore business intervention, I repeat the debate has been concluded and there is a stenogram that I have concluded. If we need to bring a stenogram, we can bring it. Now if this one, let's re-open the debate, let's go if you want to make a point. I have no reason to run from it. What are you calling about?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17079	Well, here, you can interpret it...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17080	If it's just for discussion to ask the others, do we agree to open the debate then? Here, I don't think anyone's against it. Here's a colleague of Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17081	Well, you see, here's maybe the right time for all this discussion. The Commission is safe if nothing else incentivises this process that needs to be completed. No, it shouldn't, it shouldn't happen in that way that unprincipled cars break in one agreement and nothing happens anymore. There is one thing that is commercially controversial and the Commission wanted to initiate this in the debate. Here's my colleague Magazinović running this Rules of Procedure Commission, and we've come to an agreement there on some things, and we've come up with some knowledge that we've ignored earlier. You see the Commission when the ratification is then the Ministry of Finance orally informs the members of the Commission of a specific agreement, orally in terms of a good agreement, a favourable loan and the like. However, when you look at the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure obliges the Bureau and the Ministry of Finance to deliver documents with the agreement. They never delivered any. And this Parliament has ignored it, and this Parliament has gone beyond that, and they have fulfilled that business obligation with oral notice that is not written anywhere, not recorded anywhere, nor who remembers it. And that's where the problem came from. The Commission has been having problems not because, at least I understand, that it is against either the agreement, or to stop the process, or in some way, but that at that point it is not ready and able, based on the existing situation, to make a relevant decision on such significant matters. And we have now had the idea that this provision literally applies, that there must be documentation along with the proposal of that 74 agreement. And that's enough, and that's enough. We haven't had it so far. Now I understand why we didn't have it. Because we have introduced this practice to a small door that people, officials from the Ministry with two sentences that go into the wind, end the story. And then people decide about 3 million, about 16 million, about 50 million and find themselves in trouble, not that they're against something, but they don't feel able to at that point. One option is that we seek the previous consent of the Finance Commission, as people who are much closer to the issues of financial character, or even, even if the ratification agreements, or the ratification of the agreement go to the relevant commissions, so the financial character agreements will go to the Budget and Finance Commission, I don't know the security and other character agreements will go to the Constitutional Commission, and then we will come to the situation. And that's the essence of this whole story, and not that, at least I didn't understand it, I'm speaking for myself now, not that we're against something or that we're against something, but that one was created as an unsustainable situation that simply without any explanation a bunch of masses of these agreements, and we're not deciding. And last time we said that, without that decision, there was no agreement. There was a story that it was irrelevant to our vote, I begged Bog that it was irrelevant, so let's not vote, why should I vote if it didn't matter. But if it's important to give the inputs, it's even good enough for me to have these good arguments, written arguments that are binding, binding. The finance ministry was all the time and the presidency violated the procedure, did not provide written explanations. At least for this time, I haven't seen a single written explanation. And there was a problem, because probably from five pages about something I'd read to see what it was about and I'd make my own personal decision and my own court, based on two sentences of some clerk that change at each session, believe me, that's the problem. I do not think it should be on this agreement, this should be supported and accepted by this amendment of the Rules of Procedure to go, means either that the Finance Commission, which is much closer to that matter, solves it, but also with the support that they also receive these input documents, or if it is determined in a business manner to remain in the Foreign Affairs Commission, although I find it a little strange, after all these years, and I have wondered why the Foreign Affairs Commission would decide on financial character agreements when it can fully decide the Commission for Finance and Budget. And with everything that needs to be served, or one or another commission, that it can make a relevant decision. So, here, in my opinion, it's not about the specific situation, it's about the principles of how to work on it, and I'm allowing that maybe it's all done, or maybe someone in this whole thing had any last intentions, I'm talking about myself, maybe someone had. My intentions were, and I think most of the members of the Commission, to bring this thing in so that we can make relevant decisions based on the data and information of the previous ones. We never got who gave all the consent, who took all the part, we just get the information it says is an extra-favourable loan, it's super-favourable, we couldn't find a better one, and for everyone it was so, such an explanation. And that's why I think, and that's how I end up, that this is good for the amendments to the Rules of Procedure to pay attention to this and to sort of solve this issue for all future times.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17082	Thank you. Replica, deputy chairman Milorad Živković. Here you go. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17083	I absolutely support any discussion that the Foreign Affairs Commission will open regarding its role in ratifying the adoption of the agreement. But we're also talking about a specific thing here, a specific loan. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Foreign Affairs Commission has the right, under g, to consider giving and canceling consent to ratify international contracts. In the Rules of Procedure, only when it comes to financial contracts is another commission working, if it considers it necessary, but the Law on the conclusion of international relations states that it is the BiH Parliament, or that it is a commission. Then the amendments to the law should be initiated. The second thing, Republika Srpska, Ministry of Finance of 05/09/2013, said it had agreed on this Agreement and said the RS Ministry of Finance in co-operation with the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH agreed on the text of the Framework Agreement on Credit, etc., and agreed on that. If the Commission is not enough to come from the RS, it is not enough that someone from the Ministry of Finance orally to say, take off the agenda point, look for materials that are necessary, but you cannot give a negative opinion. A negative opinion was given, delivered to all MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17084	MP Mirza Kušljugić applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17085	We in the Commission have been facing this problem since the start of the mandate. And it is not true, we have also sent a few times Commission's initiative to amend the Rules of Procedure in writing that this should be regulated, but it is obvious that there was at one point a need for this Parliament's attention to approve of the duties in this procedure and this Parliament. Be careful, the Commission's opinion does not oblige this Parliament. So today we can vote the way it's arranged by the clubs. The vote on the Commission was four abstentions, two against, to remind you of that. So, a message, and that's what we said last time. I received information that the amending Rules of Procedure Commission, which was made, had taken into consideration this period. I hope we have a better way of regulating the procedure here, and here's an explanation. It was a discussion, whether it was worth voting against or if we were to get off the agenda. And what has prevailed on the Commission is that only if we plead, and we have the right to plead and not, that we will cause a debate in this House. By removing this, as we have done several times so far, we have failed to draw the attention of this Parliament, yet this is one of the institutions that will be eventually called for the total responsibility we have in BiH, because this Parliament still plays a role in the whole procedure. Let me just remind you, I was glad because last time I was told that we would soon be on the agenda, perhaps even at this session, discussion and on BiH's debt, so at least it was said, so it would be an opportunity to open up some other things. I said this last time that the intensity of this, not financially difficult agreement, which is also an agreement that includes a lot of entities, was not the Commission's intensity to stop this whole process, but that's what we explained last time. And here I call on us to vote on this issue in the expectation that 76 Commissions working to amend the Rules of Procedure will find the opportunity to get to know each other more in detail when we vote on such things.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17086	Thank you. The word has an MP, Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17087	Well, first of all, let me say hello and thank the Commission for what we're doing today, and we did it last time. I didn't know last time that the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia was in charge of 350 million KM, and after that debate today, I know 350 million KM was in charge. My personal attitude and attitude of the SDS are well known. What is unclear to me and what concerns me is Mr Drago Kalabić's discussion, because what our colleague said is disturbing, and he said that the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers have an obligation to explain it. I'm amazed if that argument wasn't in the previous period, which means that everything we've done and voted on these agreements we don't know how we voted either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17088	Replica, Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17089	You see, when I said about the argument, they interpreted the reasoning as what they were doing orally. And that is some sort of explanation. I think now that we have a detailed review of the whole regulation, we would see that they are obliged to deliver from across the presidency, through everyone, that they are obliged to provide a written explanation. And that's our position, until this matter is settled by the Rules of Procedure, to fix it. Of course we have to work. And it's not a problem today that, so it's no one, I guess everyone understood that no one was against this individual loan, but simply some kind of signal, is in the wrong place about that path. But now clearly, without a written explanation, now the story has opened up, without the written explanation of the Ministry of Finance, no matter what we interpret orally, we will probably no longer discuss, in writing, we will no longer debate, we will strip, we will not vote against. I think it's the mistake of that, then, but to take it off until you get that written explanation. As for that, duty, you can hear anything. And of course all the information, that Doboj is to the extent that it is forbidden in Doboj and private loaning money between. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] In Doboy. So one of the measures is to ban the Doboj territory from borrowing each other because it's an alarming situation. More, it'll probably be taken away from the houses now, to make it possible to do that. It's also one of the alarming information and it's going to be 77 more and there were them, but again I'm saying it's someone else's problem, we're solving our problem. Our role is quite clear in this, and we are trying to do it as knowingly as possible. And I'm saying -- the way out is in this business change and the way out is in respect of this procedure that, not now, is why it's been so far and how it's been so far and since when it's been, but here it's been happening and, of course, it's different interpretations. I say again, the Ministry of Finance will probably say, and that's true, that they had every reason. And they did, one sentence and that's a formal explanation for you. What we're not looking for may be up to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17091	Replica, MP Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17092	Just for a little while, my colleague Kalabić, you've tended to single out Doboj with the intention of pointing out that kind of responsibility. There are a lot of responsibilities, let's say, if we singled out the RS Health Ministry, and compared it to the Federation Health Ministry, you'd also be very startled. But just to remind you, no responsibility can be given without the approval of the assembly majority, without the approval of the National Assembly, or without the consent of the SNSD, above all. And I'm guessing the Doboy SNSD made that kind of suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17093	Replica, Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17094	Gosodine Bojić, you've tended to separate the discussion, so Babalja and mine. And it's a very brave act to hear that someone, and since the principle is the same, he has singled out an institution, and here I am one. No matter what they say about us, you have to take the same grade and you both have to put us in the same basket. But here, you tend to ignore it knowing what Mr. Babalj said, and of course I didn't say it wasn't true, but you didn't oppose this if I said it was true. As far as I know, the local community is making a decision, in Doboj, the SDS and its mayor are making a decision on their duties. At least that's how much we know. I think it goes on as it goes, and then the whole procedure comes to me and to you, and that's how we participate in it. But the fact is who it is and how it works. So let's at least try to have some principles, no matter where any of us are in all of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17095	Replica, Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17096	Since you mentioned me, dear colleague, I admire your courage.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17097	Saša Magazinović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17098	I'm giving up the discussion. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17099	I'm closing the debate on the 16th item of the agenda. Before we move to the 17th point, I suggest that the House declare itself to bring together the debate on points 17 to 21 of the agenda, as it is a matter of giving consent to ratifying agreements and contracts. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority, that we have accepted this proposal. Ad. 17. - 21. Granting consent for ratification of agreements and contracts You have received opinions from the Commission responsible for external affairs. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I'd like to inform you that in 15 minutes, so at 4:45, we'll be joining the vote. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17102	I'm drawing a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17103	It draws a conclusion. So we won't vote on this conclusion. We now move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina – MPs: Lazar Prodanović, Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović and Azra Hadžiahmetović (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we adopted this bill in the first reading. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The management of goods taken away in customs procedures", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office. We vote first on the adoption of the report with the recommendations contained in it. 80 Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have adopted this Recommendation Report. We are now voting first on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament of Azra Hadžiahmetović. Prepare to vote. [[Common discussion]] We won't make any mistakes if we plead individually and adopt them. Then when it comes to the Council of Ministers, let them draw on the essence and work. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17107	...that we individually plead upon the points of conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17108	Okay. I hope the others agree, so let's get going.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17109	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17110	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17111	We're voting on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-09-19-0.u17112	Well, if it's necessary, we can vote, but I thought there was a full consensus not to vote, right? [[Common discussion]] Here goes the vote, only we don't have the possibility of a later adjustment. You're making this a complicated situation, but here you go. hajati on, we're voting on SDP's proposal. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 18 for, 12 against, we don't have enough entity majority for this conclusion. It's an ex post adjustment. We now have a proposal for the conclusions of MP Šefik Džaferović, four conclusions. Now, this is what we're going to vote on right now. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. 20 for, 12 against, there's no necessary entity majority. Compensation fee. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Consideration of the Commission's Opinions on Foreign Trade and Customs on the 2012 Agriculture Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina, materials of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (in line with the conclusion adopted at the 52nd session of the House, held on 29.08.2013.). First we vote on the adoption of the deadlines for their implementation. 83 Please prepare to vote. Vote now. We have the necessary and general and entity majority, and we have adopted this conclusion with the deadlines for their realization. And now we are also voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I realize this proposal has the necessary and general but not the entity majority. It's an ex post adjustment. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Consideration of the Opinion of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to identify possible irregularities and abuses and conditions in the BiH Direct Taxation Directorate. We are voting on the adoption of the proposal for a conclusion. The conclusion you got, should we read it one more time? Please prepare to vote. Vote now. We have the necessary and general and entity majority, and we've adopted this conclusion. We move to the 15th item of the agenda – Selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance and the selection of one member who will take office instead of a member of the Management Board (rank-list of candidates of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes). We vote, therefore, on the election of three members of the Agency's Management Board, which are Aida Abadzic-Abadžić-Hodžić, Vlado Majstorović, Stevan Trbojević and we vote on the election of a member who will take over instead of a member of the Management Board, which is Zoran Selesković. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have voted in favour of these three members and this other member who will take office instead of a member who has been dismissed. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement on credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe Development Bank, issue: 01.02-05-2-894/13, from 01.08.2013. (scheduled statement at the 52nd session of the House, held on 29.08.2013)). We are voting on granting consent to the ratification of the Agreement. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have given consent to ratify this Agreement. I am now putting the first vote on the proposal to make a statement on points 17 to 21 in the package. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I realize we have the necessary and general and entity majority. 84 I am now putting forward a proposal to vote on agreement on ratification of the agreement and the agreement between the 17th and 21st points of the agenda. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. We have the necessary and general and entity majority, I realize that we both adopted this part and gave consent to ratifying agreements and contracts. I note that the next session is scheduled for October 7th. If there's any need, there might be a session before. I'm closing the 53rd session of the House of Representatives. Session completed at 5:10 p.m.
