ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13382	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 41st session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of NGOs, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. According to the information service, 35 representatives are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the change and addition of the session agenda, I would like to note that we added to the agenda: point 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2013 by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-6/13 of 29.01.2013. Point 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-13 of 04.01.2013, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. Point 11. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. Point 13. Information on the draft nomotechnical rules for the making of laws and other regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, the Council of Ministers' material, No 01,02-50-19-1070/12 of 12.09.2012. Point 14. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to agree to the Decision appointing members of the National Minority Council of BiH (proposed by the Joint College of both homes). 2 Point 15. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to implement the procedure for the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of the BiH police structure (proposed by the Joint College of both homes). Point 16. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to draft amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedures of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (proposed by the Joint College of both homes). Point 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement Technical assistance for highways in Corridor 5c – BiH (Technical assistance under the Western Balkan Investment Framework) between the European Investment Bank and Bosnia and Herzegovina and JP Autoway FBiH d.o.o. Mostar, number: 01,02-05-2-130/13 of 25.01.2013. The following points are added: point 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Institute for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, was supplemented by a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission, which is negative. Point 8. Proposal for a law on property management temporarily and permanently withdrawn in criminal proceedings before the Court of BiH – Proposer: The Council of Ministers of BiH, is complemented by the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which is negative. Point 11 is removed from the agenda. Giving consent to the ratification of the Implementing Protocol between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Romania on the application of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the readmission of persons staying without authorisation, No 01,02-05-2-39/13 of 03.01.2013, at the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, because the session was not attended by a representative of the BiH Ministry of Security. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear representative Milica Marković reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13383	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests. I would like to propose on behalf of the SNSD Club the agenda point. On the basis of Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH which would actually read: - Resolution on respect and recognition of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Azerbaijan. The resolution is drawn up in writing. I suggest that this point enters the agenda today for a number of reasons, but I'll just say the basics. So, as a country that advocates too much for its own territorial integrity and sovereignty and as a country that advocates the democratic right of 3 each country to protect its territorial integrity and sovereignty, we believe that this resolution would have a place today and that it would be discussed, and eventually, all of us as a House of Representatives, adopt this resolution, particularly towards a country that is a friend country of BiH. And I don't think there should be anything controversial about it. I suggest, Mr. Chairman, that this item of the agenda be the 10th in the agenda, so after the law. 10 would become 11 and so on. In a situation where fellow MPs accept that this goes into the agenda today as a point of material will multiply and we will all get a copy to see, actually get to know each other and, of course, there will be a debate about it today, if we accept that today is the point of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13384	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, debate. Here you go. _________(?) Wrong. Wrong. As I see it, distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, here's the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13386	The Honorable Chairman. I don't have a proposal to supplement or possibly take down some point of the agenda now proposed, but here's a question I might ask. Given the unusual procedure – what is the reason for points 8 and 9, which are related to the draft laws to go beyond, behind the Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement, because so far it is a common practice to have the first draft laws, and then the Commission reports to the College in line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13387	Thank you. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? The agenda, therefore, is established by the rope and extended college and a report on the achievement of consensus also concerns laws. So I don't see any problem about it. So this is...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13388	In accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13389	Yeah, yeah, anyway and... 4 We therefore have a proposal to Marković the resolution on territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Azerbaijan as a 10th item of the agenda, if I understand correctly. I'm putting this proposal on a plea. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 30 votes for, with a sufficient entity majority, 1 vote against, 3 abstentions, this proposal is adopted in the agenda, so that this point becomes an integral part of the agenda. I would therefore ask my colleague Marković and the relevant services to deliver a draft or a proposal for the text of this resolution so that they can meet by the time it comes to the agenda for the debate. We therefore have the agenda for today's session at the 41st session of the House: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 40th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Representative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New issues of representation; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2013 by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-6/13 of 29.01.2013; 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Institute for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-47/12 of 28.11.2012, with Report of the Constitutional Legal Commission; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-51/12 of 07.12.2012. (second reading); 6. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Mine Action in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-39/12 of 11/09/12. (law in second reading); 7. Report from the Commission of the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the Fight against Corruption of BiH –Proponents : DušankaMajkić , Beriz Belkić and NikoLozančić , LawNo : 01,02-02-1-52/12 of10.12.2012 .( Law in FirstReading) ;8 . Proposal for a law on property management temporarily and permanently withdrawn in criminal proceedings before the Court of BiH –Proposer : Council of Ministers ofBiH , Law No 01,02-02-1-54/12 of28.12.2012 , with Opinion of the ConstitutionalCommission ;9 . Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina –Proposer : Representative DenisBećirović , LawNo : 01-02-1-13 of04.01.2013 , with Opinion of the ConstitutionalCommission ; 510. Resolution on respect and recognition of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Azerbaijan – Proposer: representatives of the SNSD Club; 11. The appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the ranking of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, number: 01,02-34-1-1374/12 of 13.12.2012. (scheduled statement at the 40th session of the House, held on 03.01.2013).; 12. Appointing three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters; 13. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the state of the case being conducted before the Strasbourg Court against Bosnia and Herzegovina, with an assessment of their possible implications for Bosnia and Herzegovina (realisation of the initiative of MP Nermin Purić, submitted at the 14th session of the House of Representatives, held on 14.11.2011 and adopted at the 24th session of the House, held on 15.03.2012.) number: 01-50-1-15-14/11 of 10.12.2012; 14. Information on the draft nomotechnical rules for the making of laws and other regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, the Council of Ministers' material, No 01,02-50-19-1070/12 of 12.09.2012. 15. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to agree to the Decision appointing members of the National Minority Council of BiH (proposed by the Joint College of both homes); 16. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to implement the procedure for the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of the BiH police structure (proposed by the Joint College of both homes). 17. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to draft amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedures of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (proposed by the Joint College of both homes). 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Credit Agreement (Modernisation of the University of Bihaq) between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Raiffeisen Bank International AG, No: 01,02-05-2-38/13 of 03.01.2013; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement Technical assistance for highways in Corridor 5c – BiH (Technical assistance under the Western Balkan Investment Framework) between the European Investment Bank and Bosnia and Herzegovina and JP Autoway FBiH d.o.o. Mostar, number: 01,02-05-2-130/13 of 25.01.2013. So we move to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 40th session of the House of Representatives You've won the 40th session record. 6 Do you have any objections? I'm opening a debate. Here you go. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Representative questions: (a) Comments on answers received
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13392	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I received two answers, and I really do have a need especially for this response addressed to the Council of Ministers and concerns the handling of the Council of Ministers in relation to the reviewing of the audit reports. So, I'm not happy with the answer I got. In fact, I can't accept that this answer is the answer that the Council of Ministers was supposed to deliver. It is therefore said that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers is considering the conclusions of both Houses of Parliamentary Assembly on the basis of which it is in charge of competent institutions to implement them. For years we've been seeing, probably the Council of Ministers is in charge, but we also see that the institutions are not responding. He also says the institution's manager is responsible for financial business. Well, that's clear to me. But if 70% of institutions make the same mistake, then I can't understand that it's not the Council of Ministers' task to do something about it to change things. In any case, it is here to state what the Council of Ministers has done to improve financial discipline in BiH institutions, which is several regulations, namely decisions, namely basics in salaries, a warm meal, accommodation. Therefore, not enough to improve the situation according to the recommendations of the audit report. And I'm really unhappy with the answer I got. And second, I mean, here's an institution called the Central Harmonization Unit, and I welcome her director, and I thank you for the exhaustive response he gave me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13393	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13394	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers with his fellow minister and members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, when I get an answer like this, then they stimulate me to ask new questions and never give up. When I asked a parliamentary question, come on, they can object to me, but it says up there that I asked the question of how many BiH Court of Justice verdicts have been made in one of the eight eloquents. Well, I don't say hello to a colleague in a half-word, I don't say where you are, hello, without asking him what's up, if there's anything new, let alone this. And now they explain to me, or the President of the Court, how I didn't separate it, all the things I asked. And I stress that during the session, I will separate all this and deliver it in writing. So they're supposed to be teaching me some order that I need to know that in the Court of BiH there's an Appellate Department, three criminal really departments there with their responsibilities, so the Department of War Crimes, so the Department of Organized Crime, Business Crime and Corruption, the Department of General Crime, and the Administrative Civilian Department, so the question of Jovičić's representative is not clearly formulated. Now, today, I'm going to make it clear to them, even if the question is 20 pages, I'm going to explain it all. But this next sentence, indeed, is not funny, I don't know what to call it, he says – it is also an incorrect question about the national structure, because it is not clear which representative Jovičić meant because the verdicts contain the names of judges, prosecutors, notaries, defenders, and accused and damaged persons. Well, I never thought in my sleep what court council, was this judge, that deputy, the three-member council, five-member, one judge. I asked who the verdicts by national structure apply to. So I asked questions about how damaged the budget of BiH was, and we don't have any funds in the budget at all, so I got a lucky answer that I can trust and I don't have to, 4.5 million marks paid. From what means? Who answered? Who had the consequences for the damaged budget, with people who were wrongly, I'll say, detained, imprisoned and charged huge material damages? So they came in handy, so they made more money with those benefits than they did in any job. Now, after all today, I'm going to explain all these questions to them, and they did well, they didn't have to direct me to this before, but when they want to avoid the answers, then it's my conclusion that it's really pointless to ask MP questions when you get these answers, so I'm going to formulate it all and deliver it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13395	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13396	I have a very brief comment on the kind of response provided for by the Rules of Procedure, but before that, I want to comment on one fact about my question to the Council of Ministers about the Work Programme, which I have set up in my own time and I did not get an answer, but in the meantime I have received the Work Programme and I thank you, of course. And finally after 2.5 years of elections, we have practically one document that tells us what the Council of Ministers is going to do and gives this Parliament the opportunity to do their work as well. Of course, I'm going to stop there so that I don't abuse the time, with the fact that I want to point out that there are around 90 laws in the proposed legislative activities in this Programme, which is, of course, for a situation that is not enough, which is about 85-90% of the changes and additions. But that'll be another time. A comment on the formally received response by the CEC is next. I did this all that the CEC answered to me, I didn't absolutely ask that, those were things I knew. I asked – are 9 aware of all the consequences that could happen for both Parliament and for the CEC, and the reputation of this entire election process in general, if the BiH Court respects the damages, the alleged damages, and put things back on track and put the CEC decisions and so on? So I insist on a concrete answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13397	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13398	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, fellow MPs. At one of the previous sessions, I asked the question – whether the Council of Ministers, or the BiH Food Safety Agency, owns mechanisms of action if there are positive findings on certain quantities of cereals infected... The answer is from the Office for, or General Secretariat, says – regarding your act we would like to inform you that the Office for Health and Plant Protection is not responsible for providing a proposal for an answer to the question in question. If that's not the office and the office and the agency, then someone else needs to get an answer or maybe send a message, so no, no one's responsible if there's a particular infection on the cereal. I'm not happy with this. I hope someone from the Secretariat of State will address who this applies to, and I haven't figured it out, but I asked the MP's question to the Council of Ministers, and I hope I get an answer. So this isn't an answer, it's said that one agency has been fenced that it's not in charge of it. I expect to get an answer, otherwise I'm not happy with this.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13399	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13400	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, guests, the media, I welcome you all together. I would like to speak a few words about the answers I received regarding an initiative and three questions. But the truth is, I got it pretty late, but no problem. In any case, I would like to point out that all the initiatives I have addressed in line with these issues relate precisely to the area of traffic or traffic. The first question, i.e. the answer I received on the question of how many complaints did the Board of Appeal receive in 2012, what did they refer to, and what did they do in this regard? However, through the report I received, i.e. the answer, 136 complaints were related exclusively to the area of irregularities in the part of the fuel, oil, insurance services, services related to traffic and low construction, traffic services, transport services and couriers' 10 services, i.e. in postal transport, maintenance and repair services, etc. ... the number of complaints raised compared to 2011 is 17, almost 18% higher than 2011-2012. So in 2012, it's far bigger. However, in the answer itself, I received nothing that they do under the fact that this trend does not continue. So with the answer, I'm very pleased, but I knew what it was about, but what they're doing is gone, so it's a key thing. As regards the second answer to the question of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations – as it seems about the establishment of a body in the field of environmental protection, I have received an answer in which, I will read one sentence, they say – aware of the importance of environmental issues in the European Agenda for BiH, if there is no entity consent for the initiative in question, it would be necessary to improve the system of coordination on environmental issues between competent entity bodies, institutions and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, as well as contact points in charge of coordination and international representation. I really know that's the case, but who's supposed to coordinate it? Are my MPs, are you this Dom? I expect from..., since we do not have an agency, that we do not have a directorate, that we do not have a ministry, I really expect from the Ministry of Foreign Trade that they are the organizers of the process of all these problems in the field of environmental protection and ultimately, in particular, the law concerning the protection of the environment at BiH level. So I can't be satisfied with this either, but the answer is what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13401	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13402	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13403	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13404	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. I received answers to three questions and a fourth of course from the College of the House of Representatives, who instead interpreted me, or made a decision to interpret Article 156. The Rules of Procedure that the College does not have the status of another entity and that it is not obliged to answer parliamentary questions. In fact, I had an application to systematicize all the questions I had asked and to provide an answer, i.e. a review to which the answers were not provided, to which they were. And by the way, here I am finally getting answers to some questions. One question I asked at the 7th session, and today it is the 41st session, and the 7th one was 27th of July, I finally got the answer and I am, of course, dissatisfied with the time since I received the answer, and it was a ban on EU imports of plums from BiH. Here, two harvest seasons have passed, so it's illusory to say anything about this answer to the question. 11 The second answer was actually from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and about the control of the bh sky by BHDC. We have heard in press statements from our minister that in the 11th month of 2012 the control of the sky by our Civil Aviation Directorate will finally be established, but apparently this has not yet happened yet, here and January. And the question is whether it will happen during 2013. Therefore, I would only ask ministers not to make easy statements and promises that are not true. And the third answer that's so strange. I have received an answer to several pages, and here in consultation with fellow MPs it seems to me that only this question my colleagues have not received the answer, although the offended practice so far has been that in fact to every question when MPs get the answer, the answer is shared. But it is obvious that this answer does not correspond to many, and therefore fellow MPs have not received an answer. It is actually about reviewing travel costs for MPs and delegates and reviewing paid fees for work in Ad hoc commissions. So please, here's the College and the professional services to copy the answer to these questions, because it's very interesting this answer, and here I won't comment on it let everyone look in the mirror. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13405	Thank you. Yes, on behalf of the College, I would like to reply to Mr. Mehmedović's esteemed representative. We have discussed the last College on this issue that he has not yet received an answer on, so I would just like to remind Parliament that we have concluded that each other as MPs, and members of the College are also MPs, we will not be asking questions, but that my colleague Mehmedović and every other representative will receive an answer that will prepare the services of Parliament concerning and the outstanding issues, and I expect, of course, I hope for this last question that he has commented on when it comes to costs. But these are issues that are actually required by Parliament's services to deliver to every MP and without asking a parliamentary question here at the House, I believe. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13406	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. Well, I have a comment on the questions I asked at the 31st and 36th House of Representatives. The question from the 31st session, here I can say that I am satisfied with the answer to the given question. However, the 36th session issue, which is related to this previous issue, I am not satisfied with the Council of Ministers' answer and I believe, according to the information it has, that the answer is untrue and does not correspond to the actual state. The identified answer to the asked question did not answer how it is possible and on the basis of which the Council of Ministers rules to make a decision that is contrary to a ratified international contract concluded between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Greece and all that is related to the reconstruction of the hospital in Kasindol, i.e. the non-acceptation of the Council of Ministers of Decision by the Government of the Republic of Greece as regards the extension of this hospital reconstruction agreement. 12 I simply, through this comment here I would like to say that because of the assumption that the answer to this motion is false and does not correspond to the actual state of play at the next session of the initiative to form a special body of the House of Representatives which will analyse the decisions made and inform this Parliament and also call on the Office for Audit to be included in the analysis of the Council of Ministers' Decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13407	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13408	Thank you, Chairman. Oh, and I'm saying that I'm happy with the answer to the question. I asked the question about the import and export of oil and petroleum products, and in 5-6 rows, I received a concise answer and thank you for your reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13409	Thank you. Dear Representative Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13410	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. So I got two answers to two questions. The first question was – how many higher education institutions have completed the registration process in accordance with the Higher Education Act? I got an answer from the Agency that she appointed 7 commissions of domestic and international experts, which of course wasn't my question. So this answer, as far as I can see, has been prepared by the Higher Education Agency. So, we in the Council of Ministers have a conference of education ministers, here is Mr. Nović, who is running this conference, and there are other ways to get answers to this question. I believe Minister Nović, my colleague, is certainly not familiar with one of these answers, because I believe he would not allow such an answer to be addressed from the Ministry of Civil Affairs. And I would like to ask that here are the conferences of education ministers, or competent institutions, to provide a detailed answer and to provide me with a detailed answer to this question. And the second was 7 cultural institutions of importance for BiH. So I also have one answer that is more of a general nature in which it is explained that the area of culture is not in the jurisdiction of the state but that it is in the jurisdiction of the entity, i.e. in the jurisdiction of the canton in the Federation of BiH. My question was to the institutions of culture in which it is clear that the BiH state has the obligation and competence of managing 7 cultural institutions including the Earth Museum. And I would ask that also in that sense I get a concrete and detailed answer to that question. Thank you very much. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13411	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13412	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I have received three answers to three previously asked parliamentary questions and I will briefly comment... for the sake of the public. The question I asked, and as far as the matter is concerned, asked the Ministry of Justice, and thanked the Ministry for the quick answer, was that I was also from information funds, and I and the Bosnian Herzegovic public, informed that a person who had no second prosecutor's experience in the prosecution's affairs was appointed to the Attorney General. While we have over 200 prosecutors in BiH, estimating that a significant number of them have competed for this very responsible duty, the devastating fact is that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has estimated that none of them are competent but that the most competent person who has not had a second experience with prosecutorial affairs is. And in response, he finds that for the affairs of the Attorney General, it doesn't take a second of working experience in the prosecution's affairs. The only thing I can say is an affair. It's an affair. I'm not just disappointed with this state, but I've already commented that from many backgrounds, from many sectors, so to speak, from a complete point of view, the public is amazed by this kind of fact. But that public doesn't have any instrument, but nothing at all, that and when something like this is done, which I simply can't accept, to realize that it's possible to do, how to put it out of force. So the complete senselessness, to put it this way of action and the fact, again, I say, that we got from an institution that appointed over 200 holders of prosecutorial functions in BiH, means she named them, that she realized that none of them were competent to be the attorney general but that they had to look for a person who was completely outside of the prosecutor's office(?). Thank you for your response to the Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications. The answer is, I'm satisfied with the content of the answer, but I'm not happy with the situation, just like the Federal Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13413	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. I'm finalizing the second item of the agenda and we're moving to the third item of the agenda. In fact, I apologize, b) New Agents' Questions Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13415	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I warmly welcome you all. I'll take the opportunity to comment briefly on my question and I have an initiative, so if it goes a few minutes, maybe you can appreciate it. On my question about the Council of Ministers' Plan and Work Programme, therefore, we received as Mr. Beriz Belkić said the Program and Work Plan. However, only in this part of the bill – delivery deadline for the Council of Ministers. We in Parliament, or the Council of Ministers, have just finished its work when it is delivered to Parliament by law, so it might be good for these proposals to say delivery deadlines, not to the Council of Ministers, but to deliver deadlines to the parliamentary procedure, because only then can we perform and the Council of Ministers has completed their part of the work. So much for this issue. And the initiative concerns the establishment of payments in agriculture, a farming system at BiH level. Therefore, taking into account that in the past 12 years of demand, warnings, and the adoption of certain conclusions on the proposal from the People's Party, work for improvement in order to ensure smooth exports of products of animal origin to the EU, which will obviously not be resolved until 01/07. And our agriculture suffers great damage in continuity, because no product of animal origin can be carried out in the EU, nor can it be implemented through the EU into third countries. And as it stands since 01/07, we are likely to lose one of the most significant export markets for BiH, the Republic of Croatia. This error should not be repeated when it comes to establishing a payment system at BiH level that is a condition for our agricultural production to receive the necessary money from the EU budget and funds. The ruling parties have been ignoring this very important issue for more than two years and it has not yet begun to establish a payment system at BiH level, and it takes 2 to 3 years to establish and accreditation, which means that we are going immediately with the establishment of a payment system in 2016 could only be used. And although the common European agricultural policy in 2014-2020 provides an opportunity for countries that do not have candidate status to withdraw funds for agricultural production, so we have already done practical damage to agriculture, because we are already 2 years behind schedule. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives are launching an initiative to...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13416	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13417	I said I had a question, so here.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13418	Please. No matter how many minutes you have.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13419	At the introduction, I said I didn't want to answer the question that I could try, if it's appreciated, and you know that I'm not a spender of time here, that I will, here's a short one. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13420	I can tolerate it, but then we're not all agents equally. Here's to the shortest.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13421	So, if the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers hastily called on the relevant factors that decide on this issue and make the necessary decisions to establish a payment system at BiH level to stop the further collapse of our agriculture. Because of the importance of this initiative, I demand that the chairman of the Council of Ministers report on progress under this initiative for each of the next session of Parliament's House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13422	I thank the honourable representative. Anything he hasn't said can be delivered in writing. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13423	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. I have one initiative and a few parliamentary questions. Although I had already endured and renewed a similar initiative, I unfortunately did not welcome its realization. Due to the current situation, i.e. informal information that the second time the implementation of the digitalisation project in BiH has been stopped, I am forced to repeat the initiative, and I ask the Council of Ministers to provide the Parliamentary Assembly with full information on the process of digitisation in BiH, history, current situation, deadlines and perspectives. I have a few questions, and I ask the Federal Ministry of Energy, Mining and Industry to provide me with answers to the following questions: 1. How many newly admitted employees in the Public Enterprise Elektroprivreda HZ Herceg Bosnia are in the mandate of the current administration and in the permanent working relationship and in the Treaty of Action, i.e. on temporary and occasional jobs? 2. What was the procedure for receiving the same with or without a public competition, etc.? 3. What are the results of this company's business in the last year? I have, the fourth question concerns, I also refer to the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. specifically the Ministry of Transport and Relations. 4. Why are three production centres not set up under the Law on the Public TV System of BiH, specifically its Articles 12 and 29? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13424	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13425	Thank you very much. My question was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. So, I think that, the parliamentary issues are one of the points that usually begins all parliamentary sessions. So lately it's been happening that we don't get answers to these questions and I really can't believe that there can be any reason why the answer to the parliamentary question doesn't come more than nine months. I would like to remind you accordingly, and I am pleased that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is here and that he will do something on the agenda to set a deadline for the ministers to answer the questions asked, because they owe me this way: the parliamentary question from the 26th session of 17.04.2012; two parliamentary questions from the 27th session of 10.05.2012; the parliamentary question from the 28th session of 22.05; the urgency of the parliamentary initiative from the 29th session of 07.06; the parliamentary question from the 35th session of 07.06; the parliamentary question from the 37th session of 06.12. and the parliamentary question from the 40th session of 03.01. So, I miss the answers of three of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, three of the Ministry of Defence, one of the Foreign Affairs and one of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. I really don't think there is, none of the questions asked are so that it takes a year for him to answer. And I ask the Chairman's Council of Ministers to do something to get your answers within a reasonable period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13426	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13427	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman and members of the Council of Ministers. I want first of all to point out, so take advantage of the fact, here is the highlighted introduction of a positive practice that lately the chairman with a significant number of resolution ministers attends meetings of the House of Representatives, which I welcome. And here, using the situation that one of the resolute ministers I would like to ask a question to, and if possible, even though I will deliver the question in writing, if I can get an answer today, here at this session, after the asked question. The issue is addressed to the ministry, or to the minister of civil affairs, Mr. Sredoje Nović. So, acting on the request of authorised applicants, the BiH Constitutional Court made a decision on the non-compliance of certain provisions of the Law on the Single National Number with the BiH Constitution. As it did not, however, there were no deficiencies that resulted in a lack of compliance with the Constitution of BiH, the Constitutional Court made a decision a few days ago, which led to Article 5 of the Constitution. The law on the unique number of citizens deleted. The publication in the ‘Official Messenger’ follows, and from that moment on Article 5 will not be applicable. This is an article that speaks about registration areas, about one important part of the single parent number. Because of this fact, if I understand this issue well, it will not be possible to determine a unique home number, 17 of the unique number of citizens, which, many, will create a whole series of inconveniences, in the least, the inability to exercise many rights, from the simple fact that for every document, for every exercise of law in our legal practice, a unique home number is something that is, here is an obligation. So if it is possible today, if not as soon as possible, although I think this is a hasty question, the question is very simple – What does the Ministry intend to take on this matter to prevent the consequences of BiH citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13428	Thank you. Dear Minister, Mr. Sredoje Nović, respond immediately. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13429	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs. I am pleased to have heard this question, and precisely by following it last year, if you remember, that precisely because of the Constitutional Court's decision, we have proposed amendments and additions to the Law on a unique birth number, and this Parliament has rejected it. The same applies to the Law on Citizenship, which will experience the same fate, and I think we will have to have a little more all the hearings for pre-proposed laws that are not personal, but laws that are systematic and need more attention and a little more attention to the future, which is why some amendments and additions to the law are proposed. But of course, regardless, we are the Ministry responsible, who has to do his part of the job and we have re-entered the preparation procedure of both this and the Law on Citizenship, as well as the Law on residence and residence. It's all tied to each other in the end. There is also an Electoral Law that we will only have a lot of serious questions about residence and residence. And we're going to be able to propose all the laws in the package or individually. And I hope that they will be considered in an adequate way and that we will adopt in the next approach. I think it's a very urgent matter, first of all, of the Single Parent Number Act, but nothing less than the Citizenship Act and the Law on residence and residence of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13430	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister Nović. If, of course, the representative wants to put it more in writing, he can stress that on his representative's question. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13431	Let me just say for a moment, I am satisfied with the answer and I believe, and I knew that the minister knew about this problem, I believe that he would do whatever is necessary to prevent the consequences of the citizens. I give up my right to a written answer. Thank you very much. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13432	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13433	Thank you. I have two initiatives and two questions. The initiative one applies – given that the Council of Ministers for its Work Plan in 2013 envisioned a series of laws, including traffic or traffic laws, only for May and some only in December. Given their importance, to the great damages that can happen by their failure to accept them, and which will certainly be evident, I think it is necessary and I would ask that we try these laws on the agenda as soon as possible. Another initiative is – since also in BiH, in my opinion, we have, in some way, a slow process of all the activities related to European integration I propose to this House, and the Council of Ministers to consider the initiative to choose, or to come to a partner country that would help us in faster European processes, i.e. to choose a country as a mentor that would somehow help us, and that would be the country that in some way helps us the most. I have an idea, but I would ask this initiative to consider and try... And questions, did the government, for the government of the Federation of BiH and the High Court and Prosecutorial Council – has the government of the Federation of BiH activated everything necessary to protect the property of the Ploca Oil Terminals, given the current situation? And secondly, at what stage have criminal charges, filed by the Financial Police of July 2008 against the then directors who, by all accounts, made a harmful contract not only for this company but also for the Federation for 30 years? And I'm curious, for the High Court and Prosecutor's Council – what is the national structure of the president of all courts and is suing entities, how much should it be and when will it be filled in accordingly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13434	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13435	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I would have a few questions, and before that, one might comment on these comments to the answers received, because I think that when we comment on our questions, and sometimes these answers are unclear, and maybe you should think about a way to call perhaps 19 individual sessions, at the request of the MPs, means when they consider the answers to the questions, you can ask oral questions to those, so those who are interested in this question, here as we have now had a very concise and clear oral explanation. I would, having been in the media these days, signposts, mean the Board of Inspectors, or director of the Federation of BiH's inspection services, that all gas stations or stations in the Federation of BiH have been controlled, as it says, around 600 and that at a good number of these gas stations, control has shown that the quality of fuel on the petrol stations does not satisfy the quality. The director himself said he didn't even want to name those people. And so I think it's not about people, it's about legal entities, or whether or not it's gas stations that have their names. And therefore, here I am asking the Administration to deliver to us the names of these legal entities where the quality control of the fuel has been carried out and that the quality does not meet the prescribed conditions. It offered me that because a month ago, I too had damage to a new vehicle worth 2,000 marks precisely because of the fuel, where my valves and pumps went, and not to say that, because of the possible law, I believe that the law does not prevent anything from being published by you, means not people by name and last name, but by the names of gas stations. And there it was said that fines were imposed, so I wonder how many of those fines were given to them? The second question would be the BiH Direct Taxation Authority. Since it is known, and we had in our hands and answer to a similar question, it is known that a large number of companies have debts for three and more months based on an unpaid VAT that crosses 100 thousand marks and more, so I am interested – How many companies have been paid off the debtors' assets? If it is the fate of this property, here today we will also have a draft law that may be treating this matter, and what are the powers and opportunities of the Administration to prevent several months of corporate debt based on VAT? It seems to me that some people are doing this on purpose and are going knowingly into bankruptcy or liquidation, or that they started companies just to launder their taxes and shut down the company, and the powerlessness of the administration is showing what, I think, doesn't control it all in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13436	Thank you. Dear colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13437	Thank you very much. Here, I'm going to ask you a quick question, since today is cigarette consumption day, here's the contribution. Since cigarettes are increasingly found in free sales, both on the street, and in a legal and illegal way, importers, and sometimes we don't even know who the manufacturers are, sometimes tobacco was produced in our former country, so the composition of cigarettes was known, and now we're not sure because I don't even know if these cigarettes are being controlled, especially its composition, and we know how dangerous and harmful it is to people's health. With a struggle fought from different levels of ministry, there is a certain reduction in use, which is good especially in younger categories, but not 20 significant. But until we reach the extent to which this should be reduced to a minimum, it should take care of the quality of these cigarettes imported. So my question concerns the Council of Ministers – Is the quality of cigarettes under control, since the import of this product is extremely large in BiH? I ask the Council of Ministers, and I would ask that if any of the institutions or agencies are not competent to answer that question, then to find out who's in charge, not to get like I did last time, we're not in charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13438	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13439	Mr. Vice President. We have recently been presented with a series of sources in the area of inequitableness in BiH's economy. According to the BiH Central Bank, which is published on its website, 59,124 accounts of BiH companies were blocked with at least one account and 36,000 companies blocked at the same time. So the scales of indifference are frightening, devastating, and what is the worst recorded trend, the trend of growth is recorded. My question about this is based on the fact that we do not have relevant data on how much value, the amount of debt, which is the subject of these blockades, so I am asking the question which is – What is the amount and what is the trend in moving the value of the blockades on the accounts of BiH companies that are covered by data on the number of blocked accounts and companies published by the Central Bank of BiH? Of course, the issue is addressed to the Central Bank of BiH. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13440	Thank you. Dear colleague Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13441	Ladies and gentlemen. I'll try very briefly to ask one question in two parts. Of course there are a lot of important things, among other things and important, perhaps more important than what I'm going to ask, but I would ask to be given an answer about the waste in BiH – how is the question of waste being resolved, and the accent would question organic waste? So I would ask from all levels of government to deliver information on how to address the issue of organic waste. I don't want to explain that question because it would take a lot of time. 21 And the second question, or b) is also a matter of waste, referring to medical waste. Since our public institutions, including private clinics, have serious problems with this medical waste, and it is a problem for many of us living here in these areas. So I'd like to ask this second segment to be delivered to me from all levels of government. Since my question is about ecology and the environment, I would like to conclude this very briefly with perhaps one more finding or question perhaps for representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly. I got this beautiful brochure, very nicely framed, where there are many international conferences and dates, one of these significant dates is today, so I'm asking us and the leadership here – What are we doing about today's international day? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13442	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13443	Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome the chairman of the Council of Ministers and all those present. My question is addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers and reads – When will the BiH Council of Ministers adopt sublegal acts laying down procedures and forms for the application and notification of state aid, and procedures for assessing the compliance to return aid to be adopted within 3 months of the date of establishment of the BiH State Aid Council? In my explanation, I listed the following. The entry into force of the Act on the State Aid System in BiH has established competent authorities for the application and implementation of its provisions in accordance with EU rules on state aid, in particular the BiH State Aid Council. The constitutional session of the State Aid Council was held at the end of last year, however, the Council has not yet begun its full capacity work. The work of the Council Secretariat to provide expert assistance in the work of the Council has not yet been established, nor has space been approved. I'd like a written answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13444	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13445	The initiative of colleagues Džaferović and myself – to include and discuss the agenda point at one of the next sessions, as soon as possible – an analysis of the current implementation of the Animal Protection and Well-being Act. 22 Materials that would be the basis for discussion on this agenda item should provide materials to the Council of Ministers through the resolution ministry and the Veterinary Office. The reasons I believe you're all familiar with them. It is therefore necessary to know after three years whether the law is fully and fully implemented and what consequences it produces. You are witnesses, together with me, especially lately that has escalated, a series of various events, information, initiatives, responses for and against solutions and so on. Unfortunately, we have casualties and people, and on the other hand we have the suffering of animals. So, the ones who passed that law I think the least we can do is analyze it and see what can be done in terms of repairing a situation that is obviously not good. And the question, perhaps, has become boring for us from the BiH Party, but the issue is for the D.A. and for the High Representative, concerns the recording of state property. So – What else is going to happen so the D.A. continues to do the job that started, which is required to do according to the law? So, in the meantime, the Constitutional Court verdict, meanwhile, took place at the Washington Summit, and in the meantime we missed the opportunity we had in terms of support for Mrs. Hilari Klinton, here comes NATO Secretary-General, we absolutely do nothing on that plan. I think Mr. Inzko and the D.A. are having a huge responsibility for this blockade right now, with an excuse for waiting for a political agreement that I don't see. This Programme of the Council of Ministers also mentions the agreement on the distribution of state property, the Law on State Property and so on. Absolutely not. So I urge Mr. Inzk and the D.A. to do their job the way the law provides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13446	Thank you. Dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13447	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. I have one initiative and two short parliamentary questions. Namely, the initiative is next. According to the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments, I launch an initiative to establish a clinic for carcinogenic diseases and organ transplants, such as amending or adopting a Donor Network Act in BiH. Reason: Over 50m leaves BiH annually, legal channels, means for treatment outside BiH. The funds are collected daily for cases of treatment at clinics outside BiH, although there is an expert staff in BiH, but due to lack of equipment, it is impossible to perform the necessary procedures in BiH. Then it is necessary to change the relationship to the donor network in BiH in a way that may have been resolved in Croatia and Spain, that all healthy citizens are potential donors except those who, who claim to be against it. The question of dialysis patients, who are increasingly in BiH, is a particular issue, so I urge the government's initiative to start this issue from a dead end. And of course I have two short representation questions. First, the BiH Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH – Is it in the period from 01.07.2015 until now that the BiH Court of Justice or another BiH court has issued an order 23 to monitor telephone conversations, e-mails or other forms of communication of persons who were or were now MPs and delegates of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and if so, please provide me with information on these cases. And a second question to the director of OSA, the RS MUP, the Federation's MUP and the Cantonal MuP, Canton of Sarajevo. Please provide me with the information available from the operational and criminal records for a person named Goran Zubac, born 23.08.'61. the year in Sarajevo, especially for the period '92–94. when acting as deputy commander of the militia station to control the border crossing of Ilija, at least it stands on the official website, as well as on the role of the same on the Alipasha field in the wartime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13448	Thank you. Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13449	I thank the chairman. Here, I'll just, perhaps unusually, I have one question on six addresses or six questions, and the shades of course depend on the jurisdiction of the institutions to which the question applies. Well, let me just say what it's about. So, I refer the parliamentary question to the Central Bank of BiH, the BiH Presidency, the Central Election Commission, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the Public Procurement Agency and the Office for the Review of Appeals and the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH. The essence of the question, I will read about it for the Central Bank, and I mention to the other institutions it is only adapted to the jurisdiction of which the institution is concerned. So, to the Central Bank – Are you from the initiator, or author and Council of Ministers of BiH, consulted on the current proposal to amend and supplement the Central Bank of BiH Act and what is your position on this matter? Thus, a similar issue depending on jurisdiction is referred to the other institutions that I have counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13450	Thank you. Dear fellow Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13451	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, we have been witnessing lately both the RS and the Federation, the truth is more in the Federation, that a large number of patients with malignancies have appeared, certified malignancies that do not receive adequate therapy under protocol from their commissions and doctors. The phenomenon of 24 has become extremely large in the last three to four months. If I say the fact that young people at the age of 35, 40 who have been diagnosed with malignancies, who are subject to certain surgical interventions and who require adequate therapy on the cytostatic lists of both funds, both the Federation and the RS, are waiting for several months, I fear that both the purpose of treatment and theirs, and the tasks of these institutions are lost. Therefore, I would like to refer my question to the Institute of Health Insurance and Reassurance of the Federation of BiH and the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia – we would like to receive a list of cytostatics with individual prices and a total amount for 2012, as well as the number of patients in the Federation and the RS that are subject to the two institutions' programmes. We particularly point out this because one-off, one-off assets, I'm afraid at different prices, are given for cytostatics both in the RS and in the Federation. Given the clear, clear and well-known number of patients treated with this therapy, please provide us with an explanation as to why treatment is not being conducted in certain parts of BiH due to the lack of cytostatics. I also ask that this answer be delivered in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13452	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13453	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I have three parliamentary issues, but I will read only one thing, which is addressed to the BiH Agency for Labour and Employment and reads – with which BiH countries have valid labour exchange agreements, how does this area operate in practice, and what needs to be done to improve the situation in this area for BiH? It is evident that BiH faces a large number of unemployed, that competent institutions at all levels are trying to resolve this issue, but the issue exceeds the capacities of both these institutions and the capacities of BiH, namely its economy, and unfortunately a large number of people particularly young educated people are forced to leave BiH and seek their happiness in countries, in European and overseas countries. I believe that paying attention to the establishment of close cooperation with other countries would be a significant contribution to solving this major problem for BiH. And in that context, I'm asking this question and I'm asking for an answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13454	Dear colleague Vesna Krstovic-We are Krstović-Spremo for the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13455	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. 25 I have one parliamentary question to refer to the BiH Ministry of Economic Relations and Foreign Trade, or the Food Safety Agency. The question is – at which stage is the material and technical equipment of the food safety testing laboratory? Are certain sites for the accommodation of laboratories and will the Food Safety Agency work together with the Academic Community of the University of BiH since many issues from their jurisdiction are closely linked to scientific achievements and projects of domestic experts? You're looking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13456	Thank you. Dear colleague Sokolović, although we've been waiting, is not here, so let's conclude this point. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in BiH 2013 by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure The Council of Ministers delivered the draft law in the procedure on 29 January 2013 with an urgent request. You got the bill. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13458	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask, so we know pretty much what happened to the implementation of the law so far passed, we know about why we have this law today by emergency procedure. So, things are clear to us, but we as Parliament have never heard a single word about the implementation of this law before. I call on the chairman of the Council of Ministers or the person he appoints, and here is the director of the Agency, to say here at the pay phone what the problems are and which is why this deadline has been postponed, let's hear it. I will support this law, there is no dilemma for me, but I think that some elemental order would be that we here who have passed this law know what is the matter with this law, or we hear about the speaker of this Parliament, what about the implementation of that law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13459	We're discussing an emergency procedure here today. Does anyone from the Council of Ministers or a competent institution want to explain an emergency procedure? 26 Director of the Department of Statistics, esteemed Zdeno Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13460	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. According to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in 2013 in BiH, the Statistics Agency together with the entity statistical institutions conducted a test list in the tenth month. At the very assessment of the international observation operation, the trial list itself has been successful, and the additional requirement of an international observation operation is to improve certain things in order to get the quality results of the list are, in addition to the activities that should have been completed on 01.10., which is a cartographic basis for the list, which, unfortunately, is not yet finished until today, which for objective reasons requires international observation operations for certain qualitative improvements in that documentation. We are not able to carry out certain technical activities in time for the census to be in the fourth month of this year. We are primarily unable to comply with the legal provisions of the Law on Public Procurement in the matter of tendering for the press of the list instrumentation, because the deadlines, they require an international tender, and there are deadlines longer and we would not be able to honour it in time, especially because it is a demanding job that provides for a press of over 5.5 million lists and other logistics materials, which is also the printing works that require a certain time to prepare it qualitatively. So we have these two technical problems that led to us not being able to meet the deadline 01.04. In accordance with the recommendations of the international observation operation, we are required to move the list by 6 months so that quality and other things can be prepared, certain changes and in the methodology they required, and thus there is a change in the second documentation, primarily a change in software solutions to be used for data processing. In accordance with their recommendations and realistic need, we have sent a request to the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers to the Parliamentary Assembly to make changes to this law by a hasty procedure, as it exclusively refers to the change in the date of the census and certain deadlines of the completion of certain activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13461	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13462	It is true that the conditions are met, the business conditions that this law goes according to emergency procedures. It is true that the text is short, clear and does not require for some time special. However, it is not true that this story lasts a year after the law was passed, but this story lasts several years, several years. And we have been very often convinced here, no matter what the law does not adopt, in addition to the many attempts to pass the law over the past few years, that the preparations go their course and so on. And there won't be a problem. So for me, it is an inconclusive argument in the very proposal to amend and supplement this law where these subjective reasons are mentioned. So, I'd like to hear what are the subjective 27 reasons aside from this pre-known complicated procurement procedure that warns that it has to be done in time. And I'm interested in the financial effect of these prolongings and the whole process. So I'm sure it'll cost us. And in any case, according to counterpart Džaferović, there is nothing to choose from, I cannot vote against the fact that we must extend the time of the census. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13463	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13464	Well, here, I really want to say a few words. Since there is certainly no man in this room who would say that anything should be done and that reflects by further moving the list. I want to remind my colleagues that we spent two years last term and here are two years of this term on this law. And it wouldn't be questionable if the reasons mentioned here weren't such that it doesn't guarantee that this changed deadline could be fulfilled. If we worked for 4 years to prepare the list then it is really degutant to say that the international observation operation in its report said that the state of readiness and the jurisdiction of the institutions is such that the census should be postponed. So, we didn't say that, but these came and said you need it. And why do we need that time to spend? Activities in cartography. Well, I know it's been a problem that's been solved for years. And what are the guarantees that BiH will not have a new deadline. Because if only it were just this question, it's already problematic, deadlines for changing the boundaries of the area, municipalities and settlements. Earlier, Minister Nović said he was preparing new laws, and there is a ban here to change anything so that the census could be implemented. So this is a very serious problem and we will vote for it, but this law will get us nothing, we won't be surprised if we don't get a new request soon to change the deadline and then BiH will re-classify itself among countries that won't meet the deadline of others in two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13465	Thank you. Dear colleague Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13466	Well, as far as the Census Act is concerned, it's clear to all of us in this room and to the citizens that the law is necessary as soon as possible to adopt and move on to the Census list. However, I would like to ask here, if there is anyone to answer my question, what are the implications, so, all of this to unresolved certain border issues, the borders of BiH. Because what are the implications of this law, and how slow will it slow down the practical adoption of the Census Act and the subsequent implementation of the law? 28
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13467	Thank you. Dear colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13468	Thank you very much. There is nothing new to be added here, what they said earlier, especially Mrs. Majkić and Mr. Beriz Belkić. It's not about the census from last year when the law was passed, but its preparations were said to go into progress, so it seems to me that some of the money stayed in that fund where they couldn't be used because there's no need for such activity. Here, let's say it now, let's say it is, and in some way that we can accept it, but I would like to get a response from the director of statistics here -- which is a guarantee that we will be able to do it in September of the month, or when it's scheduled, not to get back into the situation that, and within that time, we won't be able to execute the census. So, nothing unknown, everything was known before, they were supposed to make all the preparations and we're not supposed to catch up with each other now because of the procurement, the Public Procurement Act. If it was known before to be launched in the procedure, the funds were provided. Again, some of the funds seem to me in the last year are being downloaded because they didn't need to use them. What are guarantees, who will be responsible if it doesn't come within this time limit that's scheduled? Is there anyone who will be held accountable? It would be disastrous if we didn't make a census this year, because in any analysis, whatever you start, anything you're discussing, you're not in a position to take official documents with which you can make any serious analysis. That's why I'd like to hear how safe it is and this deadline is going to end this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13469	Thank you. Director, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13470	Speaking of preparations, we officially started preparations last year at the 02nd month when the law was passed, except for certain methodological preparations. The cartographic background is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the entity and the statistical institutions have no influence on their work, nor can they influence the preparation. By working on the cartographic background, there has been some knowledge, let's say over 5,000 new list circles have appeared in the Federation, which requires further analysis – whether 5,000 new censusors are needed, how many empty lists we have. These are all activities that take time, and thus the deadline jobs that were to be completed on the 1st 10th of last year, I said they are not finished yet. The deadline is thus extended to initiate tender procedures for public procurement of listed instruments, and all these problems also affect the issue of the number of lists themselves per language variants and the total number per municipalities per list of circles. 29 So these are all the objective problems that have arisen, which are currently being solved. The cartographic background should be completed by the end of this month. We have strong promises that it will be over. We can therefore proceed to these further procedures for the launch of tender procedures for the list. And we have prepared an Action Plan that will be adopted on Tuesday by the Central List Bureau and will give to the Council of Ministers where the deadlines have been given, and the holders, and responsible institutions for individual activities for the list from 01 to 15.10 this year. As for borders and solving these problems, it is through these jobs that are now being done together with geodetic administrations that requires finding and this methodological approach to the list in those areas that are mentioned today. Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Inter-entity also means we have, when you pull the line of entity demarcation, that's when you transfer that certain ratio that's one 50 m belt. So now we're going to figure out how to, right now, work on determining the number of objects in that band and figure out how to list in that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13472	Thank you. I'd need a discussion, too. Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow Members, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. It is obvious that this is a continuation of the blockade of the BiH census by other means. When it was no longer possible to hold water in the BiH Parliament not to pass the Census Law in another way, the obvious obstruction of the adoption of things that do not concern this Parliament but concern the entities. We here need to know by name and last name who's responsible for blocking the census that we can't obviously make in April... And it's not enough for me, what's now been explained by the Council of Ministers, that the list will be held, did not convince me enough in October this year. Not strong enough arguments, knowing that as early as 2005, all of you or most of you were here in Parliament when we asked for 500,000 marks in the BiH Budget to be separated for the needs of the census. Where was that money spent, were they spent at all, or were they returned to Budget? We've been doing it since 2005, we've been preparing for a list and we're coming up with a situation where someone doesn't want a list in BiH, and we can't say who won't. I ask the question – is if we don't adopt this law, someone will be responsible for not making a list? Which of the directors will be responsible? Am I going to extend this law by amnesting the directors of entity institutions or geodetic administrations that they are guilty of not keeping the census in BiH. 30 Therefore, I believe that there are no conditions for us to consider this law as a matter of urgency. Nothing will happen until April of the month until we can pass this law, if you convince us that this is a reasonable enough deadline for BiH, and for all those in BiH who are in the population census system, to finish their jobs to organise themselves quality in October this year. On the other hand, to answer my question – why would you even make a list in BiH if there is no possibility for newborn children to enter a home number in this country because the Constitutional Court has abolished a member who regulates the home number? To tell me how we will organise the elections in BiH in 2014 when the Constitutional Court abolished members of the BiH Assembly election? To tell me that in Mostar, we're going to organize elections and a lot of other things that concern the population list? When you convince us here we will give a vote to extend the census for October 2013, and until then I will not vote for an emergency procedure of this law. And not to mention that the ministers here were saying that this Parliament does not look long-term, and the same Council of Ministers did not want us to be informed here for all this time that it will not be possible to keep a list in April this year. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH with Report of the Constitutional Commission This bill was adopted in the first reading at the 40th session of the House, held on 03.01.2013. The relevant Constitutional Legal Commission submitted the report on 25.01.2013. The report's negative. The Commission did not adopt the draft law in the second reading. I am opening a debate on the Commission's negative report. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13474	Therefore, the Commission's report is negative. The Commission was divided, it was about half of the principles, i.e. the law in the second reading, were against it. I am sorry that this is the Commission's report, because this is the law that is necessary for the completion of this matter as regards the execution of criminal sanctions at the state level and the establishment of institutions for that execution. van of deadline is proposed a group of amendments that have been untimely proposed and I think they are unnecessary, right, but that doesn't matter now, it's important that they're untimely filed. And I have a feeling that because of these amendments, the law is not supported. So, I don't know what he would suggest to you right now. The Commission's report is as it is. I think we should get this thing back to the Commission and deal with it again, that colleagues who voted against thinking about what it gets and what it loses when it comes to this law, because I repeat, this law needs BiH. That's it, thank you. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13475	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13476	Without the intention of speaking on behalf of the SNSD, since the esteemed colleague Prodanović was not there and it was about his amendments, which were true arrived with a delay, but the practice has so far been on the Constitutional Commission to demand an extension of the amendment phase, additional deadlines. But it is obvious that these amendments were not acceptable to respected colleagues who came from the SDA and SDP, so that was our reason for these amendments, so they didn't even have the opportunity to be accepted, that we also voted against. And so I think we're staying on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13477	Thank you. I conclude, Minister nothing, I conclude the debate. We move to the fourth item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing, no, excuse me, fifth, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) The bill was adopted in the first reading at the 40th session of the House, held on 03.01.2013. The financial and budgetary committee responsible provided the report on 29.01.2013. Three amendments have been adopted. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13479	Here, a very brief comment. We're discussing, therefore, in the second reading of the amendments. I am not convinced that these amendments removed what we talked about in earlier discussions when it comes to this law. And related to temporary financing, the duration of temporary funding, the Council of Ministers' rights to deploy items that were not in the previous budgets, and when it comes to deadlines. Even in the Amendment I, instead of the formulation that was previously established, which said that, the formulation was for the previous fiscal year, a formulation is now being introduced in accordance with the special law on the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which in some ways could be the last one two years ago. So it was not going in the direction of being completely eliminated or reduced to a minimum by temporary funding, nor was it even impossible for anyone other than this Parliamentary Assembly to allocate funds. And the deadline of 31.03 remains as a possibility which, in my opinion, is not absolutely 32 acceptable. I've been asking a little bit of questions, even heard that these IMF people were looking for this deadline and so on, but none of them in Europe and in their countries have that deadline. So we won't support this law in another reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13480	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Salko Sokolović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13481	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's something similar to what Mr. Belkić said, not to repeat myself, except in the part that we, as the SDA Club, pointed out as a problem, which is that the existing legal solution to the Law on the Financing of BiH institutions is quite sufficient legal framework so that we can also fulfil our obligations towards budgetary users and obligations to the external obligations of BiH. All it takes is discipline in the work of those responsible for the adoption of the budget, notably the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance as a promoter, i.e. here in parliamentary benches as those who adopt this legislative solution. And if we respect the constitutional solution that, at 31 December of the current year, we have a budget, we do not need to have amendments and additions to the existing law, because it in some way opens or gives the possibility that the Constitution and the envisaged legislative solution are not exactly respected, because it is precisely those items, which concern the possibility of temporary financing, non-defined deadlines, the introduction of new funding items that are not foreseen by the previous budget that are truly still controversial and I think that this legal solution is far worse than the existing one and that it will create certain problems in further functioning. Here, in order not to, I say, repeat further certain details of the amendments proposed, and also regarding this latest law adopted by the budget rather than financing from the past fiscal year, as Mr Belkić spoke of. So, following these allegations, the SDA club will not support any changes to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13482	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13483	Thank you. I would like to say that after this procedure, it is clear that we have a much better law on the financing of BiH institutions and that it has achieved significant improvements in the definition of certain deadlines related to the adoption of the budget, as well as the way in which public debt obligations are settled. And I think we're more qualified here, that we're now acting in cases of irregular situations that I hope won't be common. 33 The Institute of Temporary Finance, I would like to stress that, so it was not introduced by this law. The institute also existed in an earlier law passed by another parliamentary majority and also envisioned procedures for action under the conditions of temporary financing. What have we now improved in this regard, and what have we fundamentally changed? Well, it is essentially defined this deadline of 31.03, which is one correction period for the adoption of the budget for the current fiscal year, and unless the budget for the current fiscal year is adopted, the financing of only current expenditure without capital transfers and so on, which is certainly a sanction for each institution and poses a disturbance in the functioning of the institutions and acts as a strong incentive to adopt the budget. Therefore, the basic starting principle is the regularity of the adoption of the budget. So, according to the Constitution and by law, this existing, until the 31st year of the next fiscal year. And in that respect nothing has been changed. So it seems to me that we have really all the conditions for this law to be passed and, in that sense, the SDP Club will also give its support to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13484	Thank you. My fellow Members and colleagues, I would like to warn you that it is the law in the second reading, that there are no new amendments and that we should discuss in this light, that we are not going back to the principles of the law and that we are opening a debate that we have already concluded. Replica, dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13485	Here, Mr. Živković, if you followed, I spoke about the amendments and commented on the amendments, and the replica is in the following sense. I have no doubt that the conditions for this law to be adopted have been met and I have seen according to the Commission's report and the voting method, so that is not at all questionable, Mr Domazet. And nobody claimed that there was no temporary funding before, but I argued that these solutions are in some way stimulating and making a more comfortable situation for temporary funding than it has ever been before. So, you're convinced that these are good solutions and you said it publicly and it went into a stenogram, and I am convinced that these are solutions that are not good and that these solutions do not meet European standards and ways of handling state money, or public money. And what you say temporarily now without capital investments remains a provision that the Council of Ministers may, if necessary, deploy funds to those things that have not been established. Well, Mr. Šakota, and so on. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13486	... It's a replica. [[You don't understand.]] He's pulling the line. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda, 34 Ad. Six. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to Reach Consent on Proposal for a Law on Mine Action in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH At the 40th session of the House, held on 03.01.2013, this Bill was sent to the College for harmonisation because of the insufficient entity majority. The college didn't achieve consent. You got the report. There is no debate on this agenda point. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Commission Report College on Efforts to Reach Consent on Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against Corruption - Proposers: MPs Dušanka Majkić, Beriz Belkić and Niko Lozančić
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13489	The BiH Council of Ministers delivered the proposal's procedure in 28.12.2012. The Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional legal basis on 25.01.2013. The opinion is negative. The commission found that the bill did not comply with the BiH Constitution and legal system. I'm opening a debate. Dear representative Šefik Džaferović reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13490	I think this law is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, but in the Constitutional Commission, the voting relationship was such that the Commission's report was negative on this issue. And I will now not speak as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, I will speak as a representative in this House. I believe that there is, therefore, a constitutional basis and compliance of this law with the legal system. I feel that the principles of this law should also be supported and supported in another reading. It is an area that has been completely unarranged so far when it comes to BiH. We now, apart from a few 35 shrewd provisions on the subject, there is no legal solution to how to act and what to do with cases that are temporarily and permanently taken away in criminal proceedings before the Court of BiH. So here I repeat, this law refers to the cases and their protection and preservation that have been temporarily and permanently taken away in criminal proceedings before the Court of BiH. This Law, and this was also the case with the Commission, does not affect the competence of any other level of government in BiH. It is known that in the course of the criminal proceedings certain items, certain things, cases of crime, property, property benefit are temporarily taken away, and after a judicial ruling, this seems permanent. A number of problems exist regarding this issue in court procedures, criminal court proceedings. One of the serious problems is the concern and protection of this property. Very often, the property is destroyed, the defendant is eventually released, and then the state has to pay out of its budget damages because it has temporarily taken away the property, and therefore it has to temporarily take away the items and things, because these are the provisions of the criminal procedure and so it should be done. And we only come into this situation because we don't have a law that regulates the way to protect and deal with such property. For example, if the subject of a criminal act is a corrupting slave, the objects, which will be broken, the term of their duration expires, we do not have a solution that would now empower someone, and this Law makes it seem to sell the goods, so that instead of the goods, the money is deposited, so that tomorrow, when it comes to the situation, he who is damaged, or if the defendant is freed, he will return it to him from the means. But the goods have failed and the state is reaching for its budgets and paying for it from the budget. This is the basic goal of this Law and I see this Law. This has nothing to do with the transfer of jurisdiction and this has nothing to do with the property of other levels of government. So this exclusively applies to court proceedings pending before the BiH Court of Justice. There has been an objection, and I will speak immediately about it completely, therefore, openly and openly of all possible dilemmas which have been on the Commission and which have actually been highlighted by individual members of the Commission themselves. So the question is, what if it is, for example, The budget of an entity is damaged and the criminal procedure is conducted before the Court of BiH, so the property benefit is taken away or the property is taken away, temporarily or permanently, whether it will be the income of the institution's budget and thus transfer property from the entity to BiH level. I say he won't, because it's the mass from which, first of all, he who's damaged will be damaged. So, the other thing is when there's no damage, the other thing is when there's no property-legal request, the other thing is when there's no, so whoever's going to file that claim, in this case, it exists, then there's this one institute that's called confiscation of property benefit in criminal law, and then it could possibly be a matter of the BiH institution's budget. Everything else, therefore, does not enter into this and there is therefore no danger that in this way, by some perverse means, such as the complaints at the Commission's session, it is taking property of any other level of government within BiH and in a criminal procedure conducted by the BiH Court of Justice. So that's one thing. And the other thing, it is not possible for anyone else to temporarily or permanently worry about criminal cases in a criminal procedure conducted by the BiH Court because, in this way, if they were entity agencies, as proposed, they are exempt from a significant part of the criminal procedure, because it is part of a criminal procedure conducted by the BiH Court of Justice. And it is not possible to transfer that part of the procedure to any other level of government in BiH but to leave it in the context of a criminal procedure conducted before the Court of Justice of BiH and the court that is leading it, which is, therefore, the BiH Court of Justice. That is why I believe that, firstly, this law needs BiH finally, so. We didn't have this issue arranged even before the war in BiH, this was never properly arranged. The cases have always been dropped by courts, so in the courts in the archives, in the judges' offices, I don't know where anymore, you've had various cases that were temporarily and subsequently taken away and simply, because there was simply no institution prescribed, no procedure whatsoever and how with this property. Not to mention internal affairs, not to mention police stations, etc. This is, therefore, an opportunity for this matter to be settled and that finally the state, if nothing reduces the damage it can have because there is no such regulation. The second thing, this is not a matter of jurisdiction. And the third thing, the aim of this law is not, nor can it be, that anyone be damaged within BiH. Everything that would be in that law and would represent this kind of danger, I am now publicly saying, so I am willing to participate in those kinds of fears being removed just to adopt this law because we need it. It should be adopted by both entities after the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopts it. I think Republika Srpska already has this law, but it needs to be adopted by the Federation. And this thing needs to be put in the right place. They're not just about... the least of the problems when it comes to money. You know who's damaged, he'll be the first one to suffer damage from that mass. And there's no confiscation of property benefit if someone's been compensated and if there's any damage from it. Here's the problem with objects that have their own volume, so, with these brown objects, where with them, where with them, how with them. It's subject to various kinds of, not to say, abuse and this law should introduce order. To establish an institution that will take care of all those elements prescribed in that Law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13491	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13492	Well, one short replica of my colleague Džaferović. He often convinces us that in his opinion there is no transfer of jurisdiction, and then a constitutional basis should be looked at immediately. So as soon as the famous 4.4a is listed, we immediately know it's that sleepy member of the Constitution we call upon when we have no other argument. So what you said rightly is that this Law is necessary, but then I ask you this question – when you realize that it is necessary why this law was not passed at Federation level. So Republika Srpska passed the law, set up an agency, and then we really don't have one, no need for what it is to push it through the new law. I know that's what the Federation needs. Well, in that context, I think it would be better if you had instructed your colleagues from the Federal Parliament to bring such a thing to the federal level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13493	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, debate. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13494	This has been very useful to hear, both Šefik and Dušanka. So, I expected in this year either specifically or in the Council of Ministers' Work Programme that the project on the confiscation of illegally acquired assets would appear, etc., which would solve both the agency and the security issue, etc., but here, unfortunately, it is not. We have this variant, the variant of this law. As far as jurisdiction is concerned, I am very sorry that the promoter or processor of the Ministry of Justice is in the preamble, i.e. where the constitutional basis is mentioned, this member of the famous, which Dušanka also mentions, therefore, Article 4.4a) but did not mention a member mentioned in the explanation, so that is Article 3.1 point (g), is that so Mr Bariša, the original authority, Mrs Majkić, BiH. However, we have the following in the field. The people of the RS won't do it, people are building their own system, they passed this law. The Federation is in the process of passing laws. And ok, these are your rights, but there is a BiH Court. It's obvious you don't count on the BiH Court. This is what Šefik is talking about because you absolutely don't count on this court to exist, so there's no need for a law like this to solve the issue of taken away property and stuff, etc., and money, by the judgments of the BiH Court of Justice. But here's to not missing an opportunity to confess to the legislator. One of the few laws where I see the financial dimension, where it's calculated how much this law costs per... I've never seen it before. But also in further explanations and figures showing the need to pass this law, regardless of what the initial figures refer to the total amount of property seized in BiH, so later it moves to the BiH Court, these costs are absolutely cost-effective, because 10 times more is taken away. I don't know how we don't care, and how it doesn't stimulate us to solve the problem or by passing this or something different law when you read that a thousand and I don't know how many vehicles are standing somewhere, hijacked vehicles, or millions of marks. So, regardless of what might be said on some concrete remarks, we will support, or be against the Commission's opinion, a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13495	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13496	Thank you. I was one of those and we from the RS, the distinguished colleague Prodanović and Kunić who are not there, we voted against the constitutional basis for this Law. And as far as I know, here's my colleague, Džaferović, here, complained that the elected Federation colleagues, and the RS ministers, as far as I know, were voted in the Council of Ministers on the matter of this Law. I must say, in the making of this law, there is no respect for article 75. Unique rules for the establishment of legal rules in BiH institutions under which there is a obligation to consult with all BiH institutions concerned with the materials of the normative act, and no respect for Article 16. Rules for consultation for the making of legal regulations. There were no representatives from the RS in the early group, and no one asked for their opinion. 38 Maybe I have a solution, here's something I've got in mind, and it's in Article 7. The law on the BiH court that prescribes BiH's jurisdiction. We don't mind if someone harms BiH, Budžet BiH, if some minister from the Council of Ministers does harm Budget to go to Budget, but we do not mind if the Minister of the Government abuses his position and someone in the BiH Court wakes up at his left foot in the morning and says, "You see, this minister has a lot we could take, so we will rule out this case and we will judge him here in the Court of Justice of BiH and that property in Banja Luka we will book in BiH." No problem, here I propose to the Ministry of Justice and to all colleagues here to delete, bring amendments and additions to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, to delete this Article 7.2. So in that case, this law may be acceptable to us. Because why would the BiH Court deal with someone who damaged the RS budget because, I don't know, it endangers BiH's economy and its economic interests, and I guess that puts the RS at risk first. And economic interests, here is the reputation and economy of BiH, endangering this much noise, so that the BiH Court does not deal with forest thieves, is it? Members of the 25th, 26th, 31st of this Law clearly say that the seized property is entered, immovable in the Earth Books as property of BiH. So something taken into Banja Luka should not be registered to BiH specifically because RS has its own Agency for the Management of illegally acquired property and why, for example, that property should not be left to the Agency. Why property seized before the Court of BiH would not be left to entity agencies. I believe the Federation will also get one such agency. Furthermore, the BiH Criminal Sanctions Code contains provisions on the enforcement of measures to confiscate property benefit acquired by criminal acts. The problem is that the Court doesn't implement this law. Is because the BiH Court doesn't do its job we need to build another agency. So, they're all, and I have to say that neither the principle of justice nor the public here is satisfied because if someone has acquired illegal property benefits, isn't it logical that this property of his that is taken away belongs to the local community because it is the most endangered local community in which it is located? So these are all the reasons why we can't support this law and we support the Commission's negative opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13497	Thank you. Dear representative Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13498	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here I am, reporting to briefly state my personal position and my colleagues from the club about this law. So, before I say something about the proposal in principle, I would like to remind all of us once again that the MPs of the RS have repeated many times in this Parliament, both in this assembly and in the previous one, and in all the previous one, that every law proposed in this Parliament, which means the transfer of jurisdiction or which is not in accordance with the Constitution, will never pass. That's the first condition. The second condition whether RS ministers in the Council of Ministers were voted upon in the adoption of a certain law. That criteria are most important to the MPs of the RS, and we will observe every law through that prism. That's general. 39 And now for the law. So when you consider this Law and its proposal, two things are imposed on you to think about. It's a fundamental aspect and a financial aspect. A fundamental aspect is actually a matter of justification for the adoption of such a law. And if a little bit more detail, someone here said it wasn't a transfer of jurisdiction,...and that law needed it. We agree that we should, and even here in the light of this Law, the Ministry is calling for the conclusion of the House of Representatives from June 2009. I have that conclusion here where it is said, for this reason, so the BiH Prosecutor's Office's Report for 2008 was considered at the session, then it is said – organised crime and corruption are a major social evil in BiH that undermines the economic and security foundations of society. The 2008 Prosecution Report insists that BiH does not have enough mechanisms or legal provisions to fight this evil effectively. As a result, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has again updated the issue and is asking the Council of Ministers to make a proposal for a law within 90 days that would allow for more effective confiscation of illegally acquired assets and management of this property. We've all voted for this and there's no question that anyone is against... So, we all agree that whoever illegally acquired some property in this society should be taken away from him and that the court should tell its own whether it's right with the law or not. But when you read the explanation of why this Law is proposed, the regulations of the BiH state governing the area are harmonised with the laws of the Federation of BiH and the Brcko District while in RS 2010. A completely new Act on the confiscation of property acquired by the execution of a criminal offence, which regulates the management of temporary and permanent confiscation of property. A similar law is in the procedure and adoption of the Federation of BiH. So there's no finding here, which someone said, that this isn't legally arranged. Yes, here you see from the reasoning, and that and the Ministry states, it's quite arranged. Of course, the moment the Federation adopts this law that is in the procedure it will be properly arranged in the Federation as well. Here, another thing is put in place as if the entity institutions, which already exist, are completely incompatible with BiH institutions. And now I'm going to remind you of the example that we've seen many times in the media and in concrete life. When the BiH Prosecutor's Office gave the SIPA's order to perform a certain operation, we all saw and heard that in many such operations, the SIPA, by order of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, requested assistance from the entity police or the Brcko District. Does this mean that they are not able, are not in the capacity of the entity institution to do certain work for BiH institutions as well, such as the Prosecutor's Office or, say, the Court of BiH. Absolutely they are, and it has been proved by the RS MUP in countless times that it is able to carry out what is required of it in terms of assistance and assistance to the SIPA in its execution, and we know that SIPA is always working under the orders of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. So that finding absolutely doesn't stand. And it can be related that the agency in the RS already exists, it has been said and mentioned several times, therefore, the agency that is formed and that exists in the RS is absolutely in the capacity to do whatever is required by the warrant from the BiH Court or Prosecutor's Office regarding the RS. As far as the Federation is concerned, it will likely be able to do the same when it adopts this law. As for the financial aspect. So here it is said that this is a new agency that needs to be established, that it has its own director, administration, employees, a certain financial framework to act and is said to need around 400,000 marks for the start of work and to have eight employees. Is the situation where we reduced Budget BiH, when certain budget users have suffered a reduction and funds for personal income, for salaries, and the means on which they work, whether it is justified in this situation, so when there is an agency in one entity, it is also necessary to make another, to say, a convergence that would do the same thing, let's say, the agencies in RS. And is it justified to ask the RS taxpayers to finance a 40-year-old agency that works for the RS, for the entity, and other money to finance an agency that will do the same job at BiH level. I think it's absolutely a matter of transfer of jurisdiction here, and that's why we in the RS can't support this law and the minister of justice should or should withdraw it so he can finish it, and carry out further consultations so that he might eventually be in line with this conclusion that says he's looking for a more efficient way to subtract... It does not say to pass a law on the establishment of an agency, but to seek the moderation of how to make this property, which is illegally acquired, more effectively taken away and, of course, to tell what will happen to it by the end of the story. Here, these are some of the reasons that I wanted to state and say that we will not be able to support it and we are absolutely behind the fact that the agency and the law that exists in the RS is compatible with what is required and what is to be done by the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office in terms of this, in terms of this area of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13499	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13500	Here's a short replica of Mrs. Marković. So, I'm not going to replicate these observations about jurisdiction and so on, but this finding of rationalization, i.e. difficulties in financing institutions and so on. This is one of the few institutions whose establishment is paid, i.e. it brings. If you look on one side, you said exactly how much it costs, etc., look only in 2009 at 29 items that property would have to go back to the state and so on. So look, look at the pravobranilaštvo General's office asking the BiH Court to solve some of the problems related to 7 million and 738, for the availability of illegal property benefits and so on. So the figures are completely incomparable and this aspect of rationality as an argument for the non-constitution of this Agency does not stand. And this second...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13501	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13502	So say, and what you're saying is that, I've said it ten times, it's your right to ask in your local community how you're going to vote for the law, not the National Assembly of the RS, but it's not binding for this Parliament here, this is the Parliament of citizens, and I'll always tell you that. You can do what you do, understand your local community and ask how you vote, but this is Parliament, the House of Representatives, the House of Citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13503	No microphone 41 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13504	... I don't know if that's what you're getting...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13505	I'd like to ask my colleagues and fellow MPs not to have a dialogue from the bench, everyone has a right to a replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13506	... your own, your position as MPs in the House of Representatives, MPs of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13507	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13508	I can't get through this. Mr. Beriz Belkić often responds to our right to vote on how we get instructions from those who sent us here.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13509	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13510	Please, so you can make it not...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13511	So again, I'm warning the MPs not to have a dialogue from the bench.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13512	You can respect it or disrespect it, but to make any decision you need five votes from the RS, so in the name of it, respect that if we say we can't do something, I'd respect Mr. Belkić that you said, let's see how we can work together in the future, let's see what, where those dots are, if we can agree on something, but when you don't go away from it, ask the local community, don't tell us, we're not free shooters here. So we have instructions on how to vote and not from the local community. And you have to respect that five votes are needed for every decision, and then you're going to...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13513	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13514	Well, I have to look back at this finding to make this, some improvement, not costing this Agency, but benefiting. It's a little bit like that, I have to say, in our system, I don't know, unreal. I'm going to tell you that the UK had a special agency to manage the seized property and that because of the great cost and inability to manage the household has returned to the old legal solutions. Well, it looks like what in the UK can't work, and what proved uneconomically there should come to us and succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13515	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13516	So obviously we don't understand each other. I say again your right to ask for an opinion from the RS Resolute Ministry, the Administration of Revenue, the Geodesy Administration, all that's true, so that's your right. But this is not the practice of this Parliament, not a single document in this House says that previous opinions are being obtained and so on. As MPs, you have the right to do so and it is not at all questionable. But then you say you don't want to make a deal. You come with an ultimatum, because you have mechanisms, you have 5 votes, 10 votes, and so on. We're not even in the conversation, we're not even in the agreement, you're just saying this can, this can't. It's not a deal, it's not a compromise. However, I spend both my time and my strength, I see the other members of the parliamentary majority have no problem with this, and I apologize for taking the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13517	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13518	Thank you. When it comes to the opinion of the Constitutional Commission and disagreement, there's nothing special new, because we didn't even agree on the war whether it's defensive, liberating or attacking, we disagree, we disagree, human disagree, we disagree on heroes and criminals, but what we see and what we agree on, that our workers are unemployed, we have our people 500 thousand or 500 thousand unemployed, we yell at our employers that these are all criminals and we politicians that we are corrupt. So, gentlemen, we need to imagine ourselves, so what kind of society is that? And about the opinion of the Constitutional Commission and the different interpretations of the transfer of powers, whether it's a transfer, non-transposition, so it's still, too, and that's where we disagree with the point. But this real part is clear and visible to everyone and doesn't have to be explained much. And when it comes to this law, the truth is theoretically clear to protect 7 million with some agency from so much I think, theoretically speaking, is good. However, 43 my opinion is that the Department of the Ministry of Finance, here I want to say that it is safe to pass a law on the protection of that property, that property does not continue to fail, that I support the basics, but I think that the three men in the Ministry of Finance's department can be fully managed with this, with the court, by the court, or by the court, or by the three men in the Ministry of Finance, are quite enough to achieve all this and not to distribute the normal resources that we very much need. Because here, as I said in today's initiative, which is a normal paying system agency to make, which we need to bring ten times as much money as these, we're not able to do it, but unfortunately, let's just say that all 35 EU chapters choose 35 municipalities and cities and let them do it. I'm not at all, therefore, whether something is going to be at the community level, entity or state level, there I am, it's just important that we do business. Unfortunately, we're just holding each other back and that's the biggest problem and unfortunately these parliamentary majority as well. And for that, I say, I support the basics of this law, but I think this can be done in shorter and cheaper means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13519	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13520	Thank you, Mr. President. Oh, the question is, otherwise, counterpart Belkić, here he comes out, said he can't hear these from the parliamentary majority whether they need this law or not. It's more peripheral to think about whether we need any laws or not. I don't only know if we can think about some kind of mechanism so that we don't exhaust each other in the future, so we can say,.... There will be a question of the need for Parliament, Council of Ministers and so on. We have a bill that came from the Council of Ministers in the regular procedure as a sideline act of the Council of Ministers, and now the question is, who is sitting in the Council of Ministers, is there some parliamentary majority or opposition sitting there, that's the first question. The second question, this is the Law, which defines the treatment of temporarily or permanently confiscated items, property and so on. by the decisions of the BiH Court of Justice. It can't be, there isn't any, it doesn't give this law jurisdiction to the Court of BiH, so when we talk about the transfer of jurisdiction, it doesn't give this law jurisdiction. The Law on the Court of Justice of BiH also gave him jurisdiction in a series of decisions taken by that Court, including condemnation of penalties such as these and such, also makes decisions to confiscate and certain assets temporarily or permanently. What I am interested in now – who now manages this property, there is no law? We hear from the media that 500kg of marijuana, for example, has been seized in the action of various security agencies, and that this has been given into the jurisdiction of the Prosecutor's Office, or the Court of Justice of BiH. And that trial, the trial before the Court, could take a year, two, three, five, I don't know, depends on the complexity of the case, right? What happens to marijuana in the meantime? Where she lies, who governs her, who guards her? Is it possible, is it possible to abuse further, so, in the process? She can never be legalized, so she can't be returned by the lack of evidence to the unsub who found her. So, what happens then? 44 So no one slows down here, this is me one, I have to tell you the truth, one technical law that has nothing political in it, nothing at all. But which prevents, means that different types of goods, different types of assets taken away, different types of evidence at the end, which are in a particular case of evidence, we have a system of responsibility, what counterpart Džaferović said. Today the evidence lies, the evidence lies, I mean, I'm talking about evidence, material evidence, lying somewhere in the basements, closets, unsecured, certainly unsecured. We have information glamourly announced the other day, ten years ago taken away by some narcotics being destroyed today. Are we aware, and now it's a minor problem to say – let's make order in this area, let's make a system. He's not harmful to anyone, but I can't... that someone might think this is a pity for someone. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] How much is that? Look, there's already a lot of damage today because of the absence of one of these, if we want to look at the matter essentially, let's say, rather than any harm, that, if there's any damage, the establishment of order, the establishment of a system, the establishment of responsibility, the establishment of some sort of review of these taken objects, etc., etc. If we're going to assume that the courts are going to make all decisions at once, then the question is whether we need a court first, and then we're going to talk about whether someone who's going to manage the property he's taking away. But I mean we can't, we can't, we have to set some standards, so to speak. So, I absolutely don't think this law can be harmful to anyone, it's not to anyone's harm. That there may be more precise solutions, perhaps better solutions, but that's where we have the possibility of a change in action to fix it. And I don't believe that it was anyone's intention now to propose this law that, now I don't know, take some authority from someone or do harm to someone. So we really don't have convincing arguments that we don't have a constitutional basis for this, so I think we have a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, and I am particularly not convinced that this is a transfer of jurisdiction and this, because jurisdiction already exists in the Court of Justice of BiH, so this law does not transfer any jurisdiction. I will do the analogy with the question I asked today and with one part of my colleague Živković's debate on the List Law. We kill ourselves with worry, from protecting the interests of different species. I don't see this Law now, if I could get in and I'd probably be against it, is this Law any adverse consequences, that I go like this to our criteria, to any Hrvat in BiH? I don't think so. Are there any adverse consequences for any of the people of the Federation, here I am from the Federation? I don't think so. Are there any adverse consequences for one citizen from the constituency where I was elected? I also don't think so. I don't see any reason why they wouldn't support the adoption of this law. But the facts that are listed here today, the fact that already the day after tomorrow my Hrvat, or my Feds, or my citizens of the RS will not have the opportunity to determine the birth number of their newborn child, so they won't be able to take out his health book, so they won't be able to make his passport, so they won't be able to report it to the home office, to determine his name, if we don't declare it unconstitutional and some of the provisions in those laws so we don't change it. So maybe we won't have a chance either. Here, that's not the problem. 45 The question asked by a respected counterpart, Kabil today, we all hear it, he is even more professional than many of us, so he can properly, more specifically ask questions, that today we have the fact that, all of a sudden, in health care offices, there are no funds for the treatment of those patients for whom we have approved free treatment, put them on the list, more favourable as they are called, I don't know now. And that's not our problem, and a lot of other things aren't our problem, but this is going to be a terrible problem if you don't let Bog set up this Agency. It's also possible that if it isn't established because the key question is, frankly, if I'm really interested in taking drugs in the form of pills, drugs, what are they doing today, who, how, where they store them, how they destroy them, if they destroy them, and God Bog, they don't happen to be in traffic again, so they spin them three times in traffic until they destroy themselves once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13522	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13523	Dear Chairman, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I won't say much, but I'll just support what my dear colleague, Milica Marković, said, but some, to try to clarify things here for years, not how we came to Parliament, but how we came to Parliament, I've always pleaded, and I think the best version was that we would come to some law to see what was proposed in the beginning and that it could be immediately assumed that it would not go away, not because of what is a respected Belkić, whom I really respect as everyone else, says that we are transferring the atmosphere from the Parliament of the RS here. I have no idea what they're doing there, I don't even watch those sessions sometimes, but I'm running with a clear initiative, an idea, representing citizens, that this is one of the agencies that won't do anything. But here's an example. There is a criminal law in BiH all the time when it is said that property can be taken away, so who will manage it to see it, but here's an example – we have now had on the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs by the idea of an esteemed colleague, Mešiće, an idea to see what we will do with the goods that are taken away at the border crossings. And when you get that answer from the Direct Taxation Authority, then I don't know what the media is going to publish tomorrow, whether it's gonna be funny or whether it's gonna be believe it or not, or whether this isn't true, or this is an amazing lie, he says - they took away some of the corrupt goods worth 4.5 thousand marks in the last year. And tomorrow the title in every newspaper every MP has a higher salary, there are 5,000 marks than they've taken in a year. Well, now you are coming in, not to a college of opinions, not to a collegiate parliamentary debate, not to a collegiate with your colleagues, but to ask yourself, and this will be used by these colleagues that I also welcome from the Centre of Civil Initiatives, who tomorrow have or the day after tomorrow a conference, and says – the most inefficient, as I apologize for the expression, here is the most inefficient, they have in the programme to adopt so many laws, have adopted 3%, 4%, 5%, and this is my esteemed friend whom I appreciate, Ivica will explain. The media could hardly wait and then say these free ones downstairs were getting paid, sitting down. And I'm asking you now and all the promoters, don't put any laws in the procedure that are known to be at the beginning that they won't get support. Not because she told a respected colleague, Majkić, or five of us from the RS for or against, but because this won't do anyone any good. There is, I say, in Criminal Law, when a verdict is pronounced, with the sentence of prison to take away his property. Now who's going to run 46? It's not about who owns the property, it's about to be a new agency that nobody's gonna benefit from, it's about whether a judicial verdict will be from that thief who stole everyone alive where that property came from. Well, my information, I'm always interested in something, and here's the agency, mentioned by a prominent colleague Marković, in the RS so far, has taken away 20 million marks. And here I see in the Federation that there is no agency yet. So if we are now forming this agency new at BiH level will the 20 million, which the RS agency has already taken, will they, as the authority of some over-institutional body above that entity agency, take that 20 million to justify their existence? Dear colleagues and colleagues, we've had discussions here for days on audit reports, so we've asked some agencies first to count them, nobody knows what they're called, or where they sit, or how much they spend, or what they even exist. Well, we never found a rational justification, and I got a response from the Honorable Council of Ministers Chairman that they are now in the process, that they reduce it a little bit, and that they reduce the number of those agencies that we're just piling up for the capture of some party personnel. And here, I publicly say six years in Parliament, and I don't know, it's possible that I don't have to know it out there, either, that the least SNSD personnel found a crush in this building. And if you're counting on other parties now, I know some data, so I even said it wasn't this agency, but it is a matter of our relationship, that there's at least a good day or a healthy colleague here, but as Amija, jessi djaj, grandma we want coffee, dad time is at lunch, the whole family is hired. Is there any agency to break up those clans and that nepotism? Well, that agency would be more important to me, so tomorrow we don't call in 500,000 unemployed, which is correct. And to finish, distinguished colleagues, distinguished friends, when you propose some laws whether they came from the Council of Ministers, from us MPs, from anyone who has the right to propose, that you immediately see in the beginning what law will get passability and what its goal is to improve the lives of BiH citizens. Not one who doesn't have anything in the plate today, of the benefit of this agency whether she has 400,000 marks in the budget, whether she owns the property, none of the assets taken away will take the furgon and say I drive to a refugee settlement or to a collective center, and unfortunately today we have them, and we give that food to them, if it's food or if it's a car. But they are nebulose about the Direct Taxation Authority – a thousand and a half car recycling. That's the agency. And you know what they're doing? There those who pay for 450 thousand marks of storage space, the first people's jargon said, and not that I don't know a better expression, give up the best parts of the car, take off what's irrelevant, come let the commission declare this car is not for traffic, so when especially determined, the ones who stole those parts come back and drive you from those agencies. People, there are countless things here that are more obstacles to this people, which are more important. Whoever defends the judge at any level and the court when he gives judgment to someone who is truly responsible, in order to keep telling him that judgment, because you are guilty of what you did and the crime, we take away your property. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, you'll find the owner of that property, they'll all be grabbed for it, but there's no such convictions, that's the problem not to take away the property. So I ask you once again, let the laws that this people will benefit from in the procedure, and we will meet these European conditions that they are looking for, so I see this File threatening to replace him last night, so here I am offering myself to take my first 47 shifts, because I am more tired of hearing this and nothing helps us. Well, let me take my first shift, and here's the high representative, whoever he wants. And you intend on more of these agencies. I asked a reward question in the last term that only someone would tell me how many there are, no one knew of course, so they would tell me about five, which I individually listed, what their mission was to do. Nice job, 100,000 marks spent on renting space. So you got all the reports at the 6th session we adopted the 5th session, the 5th session of the 4th session, the 4th session, we didn't have a quorum, the second one wasn't the director, and that agency lives, spent hundreds of thousands of marks. That's the agencies we're hoarding. So don't ask for this agency to be formed at BiH level. At the level of the RS there is, shows some efficiency, when I heard 20 million marks that they were taken away, I say, uh, well done, we're going better. Well, there is such an agency in the Federation, so let me see their result, so if they arrive this, under the alleged signs, mine from the RS, and it is not supposed to mean mine is RS, it's mine and BiH, but don't just, here's something at BiH level and it will give efficiency. Well, that'll ruin these entity agencies that are doing something, because that doesn't mean if they get a level and a title, prefix of BiH, that it'll be effective, I think it'll be counterproductive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13525	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13526	I thank the chairman. Here, in these discussions, there is, of course, an attitude and a lot to be said. I had a need to say two things, even though they were said in part. So we're coming to the point that in the normative part, we're probably going to be one of the best countries in the world, and we're going to get all the regulations, but what in real life is that we're far from that normative part, and a lot of people aren't paying attention, but they're just still pushing that story, so let's just let as many agencies as possible, the more laws, the more regulations. The fact that practice is completely different doesn't give a lot of consideration and it's a common-known thing. But the most important thing I've come to say is that, let me commend the Constitutional Commission, because it has taken the right position. She took the right position, I assume she had in mind that the very position of the BiH judiciary itself is controversial, the constitutional position of some judicial institutions is controversial. Here, not to raise that question, but as far as I know, the Constitution and the BiH Court are taking the road, one forest, and that the issue has long been disputed, and to remind all of us that there is a structural dialogue on this issue, that it has led to this because we have had many disagreements. And that's why I think the Department of Justice had to pay attention to that fact and not propose any new regulations until this issue is resolved. Here, the Ministry of Justice has neglected the conduct of a structural dialogue that raises some judicial institutions and, at best or worst, raises their constitutional positioning as no one is presently present. They act, here we claim unconstitutional, at least they act... And that's what dialogue is about, and I think we should wait to see how that's going to be a solution, so let's see if there's a need to build up institutions, agencies and everything else, how that issue will be regulated. A significant number of issues in this country's Dayton Peace Agreement and subsequent legislation have been regulated so that they are very, very effective at entity level. And it was not disputed, nor will it be disputed in the future, so it doesn't take a moment, and it's impossible to set up a thesis that any area can't function unless it's only at the level of BiH, but it will become impossible to function 48 institutions, and it's only a message that life is at BiH level and that it's the only interest of BiH, and that the the the thesis that I'm trying often to point to it, that many are very easy to slip away from the message, when they talk about entities, that it's like enemy territory, like another country's territory, as if there's not the life of our citizens in either entity. But I say again, and I end it, and one warning to the Justice Department when it comes to it, I don't think it's correct to ignore the fact that there is a structural dialogue on very important issues. RS, and I think the whole of BiH expects a lot of this dialogue, we have, although it is already giving us patience because it takes too long, but here, we will wait for it to end, and we will see how it will be done, and only then to talk in accordance with the results of some possible, and to pass this kind of law, to suggest that we have, but we already know that we have opposing attitudes and we know that we already have a polygon on which we now, in some way, agree, I think it is not, it is not correct and that, yes, of course, the logical answer from the RS, regardless of who it has agreed with, that it is quite logical and in line with our previous views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13527	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13528	Well, I find it very logical that this finding, Mr Kalabić's claim, is that while structural dialogue is being conducted, there should be no interventions and some solutions until the outcome of the structural dialogue occurs. But then I don't understand why initiatives are being launched and they put other laws in the process that are also the subject of structural dialogue, such as the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. So, then let's be principled and wait for the results of the structural dialogue, so let's see what we have.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13529	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13530	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, from these discussions, it can be concluded about what the fate of this Property Management Act will be temporarily and permanently taken away in criminal proceedings before the Court of BiH. I personally believe that there are no obstacles to the adoption of the law at BiH level, meaning here on asset management which does not interfere, means courts of any level of county, i.e. canton, entity, BiH Court, to do their job in accordance with the law and to impose such penalties where criminal acts are seized and illegally acquired property. So here it's just, it's, is, how to manage that property. Our experiences so far are obvious that and we don't have the right solutions for this, and I think we should, whether, and sit on this issue and contact all levels of government, because all courts 49 are making decisions to exempt certain assets that have been acquired in an illegal manner. And it's all happening in the municipality, canton, entity and so on. Therefore, if I set a few examples in this law, but life examples, because it is no problem to pass some law, the problem is the implementation of this law and here what is said in the explanation, or, here, colleague Beriz Belkić says, that this would benefit me, I think there would be losses from this, and I would be glad that colleagues who have discussed, in a way from the RS, that this agency that was formed to prove to us these 20 million marks that they, I don't know, and they didn't exempt them, the court has made a decision on the exemption, confiscation of property, the court, the basis of a prosecutor's claim, the processing of police, the agencies that they are working, the court has reached such a verdict. But someone, that's what you should do with that property when the verdict is passed. In what way? Most of that property, so far the practice has shown, has failed. We have here and we have an explanation of how indirect taxation management is, I don't know, exempt vehicles that don't know their origins, typed, stolen, four thousand or something. Those vehicles have been in a huge warehouse for years. I'm sure these vehicles don't cost on average today, I don't know, a thousand marks per vehicle, because they're devastated, robbed, stolen from just the ones they're supposed to keep there, because they took those parts from them, so let's say they're long standing, because I've had the opportunity to see it several times, the car's been standing at the warehouse for 10 years, and you don't know what you're going to do with it. And the court has made a decision even, I have debated in the cantonal government in Shiro Brijeg with judges and prosecutors, when you make a decision to destroy the vehicle, you've made a decision, you've reached a verdict – what's next? That's why I'm saying maybe it should be within something, is it, 'cause I'm saying when you guys decided to destroy the car, that big griff, that bogeyman, put that vehicle in that little ball somewhere, but it's all costing. You need to take out the battery, you need to buy that acid, you need to take off the tires, who's gonna pay for it? Here, so the courts in that part don't have any practice, because here we don't have to work on our own, because I'm saying and I don't think that we should set up an agency in this way as it says in the explanation, as the legislator of this law, I don't think this agency would do anything because it depends on what kind of goods it is. Most of this stuff that's excluded, it's going to fall apart from those real estates that can possibly be sold, and these are all moving things. Believe it's the only thing that would damage the state by paying the guards, but it just has to happen. I'm, like, here today, is it, and I'm offered this law and this law that's on our benches today, and I'd set up an indirect tax administration, so it says we're going to confiscate the property of a VAT debtor. I don't see it. But you need to cooperate with both entity authorities and these agencies and laws and cantonal, whether or not, at the state level, but that there is a special agency I think it's an even greater administration. As a colleague here said in the framework of the existing BiH institutions, I think someone should, in some ways take care of such property and that it should be simply efficient. Now I'm not proposing here under the law in which way, it's the best thing to do as soon as everything is sold and then eventually, because, the state will pay for the damage, because someone will assess at this point a stolen vehicle that's worth not knowing or I don't know this much, you won't end the litigation in five years, no more that vehicle is worth as much as we'll have to, if the vehicle comes back to compensate, the state will have to compensate for the damage. That's where you should be careful. This is the matter exactly at BiH level not arranged. I support it, meaning law-making, but this is the structure of the establishment of the agency, because I think we should sort of bring in this experience of already existing agencies, this one from the RS, and this one from the canton because we have down there and at these levels and taken away goods. 50 I don't think in financial terms we would have done anything here, it is clear here that the Court of Justice of BiH, on the last page, says that it has made judgments, so judgments are, illegally, acquired assets take away the total value in favour of 4.385. Now it's just a matter of technique that'll take it away and where that property is and how it's dealt with. I don't mind it being from the local community, I don't know canton and so on, but here's the thing that the judiciary works effectively, that it doesn't, that we come into such a situation that we don't need these agencies, that we won't have illegally acquired property, that there won't be any crime and corruption, is there, should we? And I'm saying that I think something like this is needed at national level, but of course in cooperation and with lower levels of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13531	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13532	First, I will take a brief look around, in part support of what Mr. Jurišić was talking about, but I will also make it clear because a persistent story is being created that without this law, all taken away property is failing. We're asking what's happened to that property so far? How have the courts and institutions been doing so far? And there are many institutions that deal with assets that have nothing to do with this law. Because this is where the illusion is created that when the Kajamak is taken away in Mostar, the state court will manage the kamak. He won't. No matter what that inspector does, he'll take it away in a legally established procedure. And now it's said to be a failure of the Kajmak if we don't give the Court of BiH some kind of sherpa that's not the case. So it's not like that. So is Management. And what Mr. Jurišić said, they're not doing their job and now they're looking for an excuse. They don't, they have all the instruments and we're going to give them more instruments to manage the assets that are taken away in the process of determining from various entities, whether it's the subject of smuggling or illegal activity, so. But since it's not working, so to find a way out of the famous one when you don't know what you're going to form a commission, in BiH when you don't know what you're going to form an agency. And she's an excuse. Well, now we're gonna wait until she's formed, so you know we can't take that away. It's one part of that story that always goes along, and you know what the biggest activities of the BiH Court were. What property is in the war crimes story? And now there's the problem because I can't take away property in those items, and in others, they're doing nothing, so we don't lie. What's their problem? Save the money. There's no deposit, there's no cash register, so now they need, I don't know, something special. And from whom did they take that money and to whom? But my replica primarily referred to what Mr Belkić said and I will agree with him that it was exactly everything he said, but he pulled the last part of the discussion out of context and did not say the harmonised text of the proposal. So, the difference, Mr. Belkić, is that this proposal has a majority in this House or at least we think at this point that it has a majority. And there's the difference. And structural dialogue can be interrupted at any moment with the support of all when we reach the majority. Our problem is that we don't have a majority in the other proposals and that the proposals are coming that aren't in line, and we say that's not okay. All that has been agreed and all that exists, for which there is an agreement in this House, we will always support it and that law goes with the epithet agreed and it as such comes here, and there is a difference. Many others do not go who are ready because they are not in line and we are waiting for the outcome of the structural dialogue. This one came on the agenda because in the meantime 51 came to an agreement and here we are going to be here, again I say fenced one piece, hoping it has a majority. Those who suggested it at this point think we have a majority in this House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13533	Thank you. Dear representative Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13534	My replica refers to the exposure of counterpart Jurišić, in fact it might be more incorrect to say that, allegedly, these entity agencies that would work would have done eventually, created some new corruption, crime in their doing this job, and apparently this agency would have done the best to form itself at BiH level. Well, I have to tell you, colleague Jurišić, that's not exactly the case, I speak from the position of the RS and the agency that works for the RS. And now I'm going to give you a concrete example, although I just want to illustrate to you that that's not what you're saying, but from that example, and from what I'm about to tell you about the SNSD Club now, there are more important arguments that this is a transfer of competence and that we can't support that something is founded at the level of BiH that already has in RS and is doing this job effectively. So, in Bijeljina, where I live right in my municipality, it happened a year and a half ago that Šećerana was known as a factory and at the time of the former Yugoslavia in some previous time, that it was privatized and that the prosecution found that this factory was bought with money washed away. The person who bought that factory was of course detained and the trial is under way. The Agency for the Abuse of illegally acquired property has taken over the factory and the factory is now standing and awaiting the outcome of the trial. Although there are a large number of people who need to work there, even though a new buyer has come forward to buy that factory again, it all stands. And the agency is very responsible and competent to do this job, and when the trial is over, then you'll see what happens to that farik. If it is found that he is not to blame normally that man will be returned to that factory. But it's more likely that he's guilty and that he bought it with money. And what you think now that the court says, eh the factory is coming back, should be taken over by the local community, the state, the entity, but who, that it's okay for BiH to take over the Bijeljina Sugar Factory. The first question is whether it has the authority for the economy and business activity in the ministry, in the portfolio, in the Council of Ministers. There isn't. So how she, how she can manage that factory. That's one thing. Second, here is to sell it means to take the money for it, is it okay for BiH to sell the factory they built, primarily the residents of Semberia and Bijeljina. I think the logical thing is that when it comes back, I tell a community to take over the local community, because of the contributions and resources of the people who live here, the factory is made. So, don't bring, mix pears and apples, something that's incompatible and that has nothing to do with each other. I know that some people care about it here at all costs to build this agency, but it has no purpose, no fundamental justification, and you needlessly convince us that it is justified, because we know that what works is justified already and proven to function effectively in the RS. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13535	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13536	Here, I answered the line because my colleague, Milica Marković, here's what she says, mixing pears and apples. Now here's the factory, which she says, in Bijeljina is given to the management of the agency. Well, she could have given the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or already if it was the city of Bijeljina or the mayor or the City Council now, at some point perhaps the municipal council, could have given it to manage also to someone from the already existing authorities that it didn't have to be a special guarantee. I've made myself very clear. So I think this needs to be done at the state level, that it needs a more efficient way of managing, so that is the conclusion of Parliament in 2009. For years, as my colleague used to say, this means temporary or permanent seized property. The other day I had a chance, right in the RS area where the agency works, where more cigarettes have been taken away, and those cigarettes have been standing in the basement for a year and sometimes when they come across to take one of those pecks, it's some joint action was or was the Border Police. The value is, I don't know, that's what they said, about 80,000 marks, that it's there. And it's going to fail. So, I was talking about how it would go down, because I witnessed it getting a little bit out of there. They take those who guard. They shall not be harmed; they shall not take it, but those who guard it. What would I do if it was taken away? So the stolen goods, no matter the evidence of guilt, the goods that don't go down, I'd put it on the market, I'd record it, deposit the money, so if in some trial it's proven that it's the goods's office to pay people back, because the goods are going to fail. And possibly to prove that he's not wrong, or if it's proved to be the law, it means right, or police service, that the goods were smuggled in one way or another. So, what I'm saying is that these goods will ultimately fail, neither will the state nor the municipalities, nor the canton, nor the entity, nor anyone benefit from it. Here, that was, so my message to say is that it's more efficient to manage that property. And I said that everyone must participate, and I said that I didn't see the need to set up the agency and I say that I would like proof materially that this agency that was formed in the RS, did it generate any funds of 20 million marks.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13537	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13538	Well, here's what I need to do. I know, I've heard that Mr. Jurišić is a well-known dentist, but this frogic knowledge, as we say, if I were to say Herzegovic, then the excellent lawyers from Herzegovina would be offended, the Sabbath interpretation of the procedure, as we tend to say, is not acceptable and you're avoiding this interpretation to say one other thing. The agency can't decide the property, the court decides. And you've silenced one fact that the problem is in the judiciary and that the problem with the mishap of courts is the destruction of property. The Agency shall act solely on the order of the court. She cannot manage it and give it to anyone and how she wills because you have this legal dilemma that the court decides and is responsible for. Who says the dispute will end and what 53 will be at the end, who will be compensated and who will be sued. And the agency, if it wants to comply with the law, can't get involved or involved at all. She has to follow the court's instructions, and the court will decide what's for sale, what's to keep in the long run, what's for, in a way. And there must be no dilemma about it at all. Eh, you just touched the right subject, because of the lack of justice. And you've come here with us to realize that the judiciary is not doing well at BiH level. You want to drag us into an additional story that now, on all sides, we take away this property and that it depends on the ineffectiveness of the judiciary. And then there's the problem. Because we should not send a message to the public about the functioning and work that it will be some independent institution that will decide for itself. In the morning he picks up those peppers and he says they might wind up today. Let's go sell them by noon. He can't. It's not like that, and it's not like that. But we have a huge grudge against the work of the judiciary. Its efficiency is in exclusive relation to the state of the assets to be taken away. The result of long disputes is likely to fail, but the fate of the property must depend on the fate of the dispute. It is inseparable, and only the agency's actions in any form and at the level of one entity, and if formed in another, will be exclusively and directly related to the functioning of the judiciary. And we cannot transfer these things to, which are in the jurisdiction of the courts that ineffectiveness of the judiciary can in an illegal and illegal way correct any agency or local community. That's not what we're playing about.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13539	Thank you. I hope the citizens of Šapac will not take this sintagm as an offensive interpretation, because it is not... a court in the context of this. I'm closing the debate on item eight. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission This Bill proposal was submitted in procedure 04.01.2013. The Constitutional Commission delivered its Opinion on constitutional law and principles on 25.01.2013. The opinion is negative. The principles of the bill are not supported. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate, and I'm giving a break for an hour and five minutes, so at 2.30 we're back to work. /
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13543	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished MPs and MPs. I welcome the motionor's activities to propose this text of Resolution and the SDA's Club supports Resolution with that, here as the Club we have two small amendments, i.e. two amendments that might actually more precisely define this text of Resolution. You've both received amendments. So the Amendment I is talking about adding to the third indent the word "greeting the efforts of legitimate representatives of the government" to add the words "republika of Azerbejdžan", while the rest of the text remains the same. And in indent 5, behind the words "in condemnation of crime" to add the words "in the city of Hodžal in the Armenian-Azerbaijan Nagorno-Karabah conflict", and the rest of the text of indent 5 to remain the same. Therefore, here is the Club of Representatives of the SDA, with these two adjustments, supports the adoption of this resolution, because we have heard of what was happening in the Armenian-Azerbaijan conflict, since BiH has been going through similar things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13544	Thank you. Dear Representative Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13545	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that our Parliament will adopt one of the few resolutions that are made in such parliaments. And believe me when they read to me whether, due to technical problems, the text of this Resolution and of course the two amendments that have been tabled, I visit especially people who are closer to my generation. The Jermen question has been a very sensitive issue for decades, perhaps centuries. The Republic of Turkey had a very big problem, believe me. I don't know what kind of trouble there is today. But when it comes to the Republic of Azerbaijan and nagoran Karabah, you remember, I say the older ones, how it happened and how things were going. 55 Of course this resolution one deep human character has, that we confess some things and support, which is normal for a country like BiH. And here I fully agree with all of you who will probably be just like us for this resolution. But these two amendments kind of radicalize some things, believe me, here's a very good point. Maybe it's not a good time for us, for someone to think of us as some kind of arbiter between two currents, and that's not good for BiH as a state. It's not very nice to be an arbiter, at least on the side, you know. I respect the promoters of both amendments, they may have done quite well on purpose, but I would, however, ask them to think about it a little bit. The resolution as a Resolution is acceptable, the BiH state can also stand behind this resolution, it shows only the strength of our democracy and our approach to democratic resolution, simply these human issues that are happening there. And for these amendments, believe me, this is my deep subjective opinion and thinking, I don't mind someone voting for them, someone against them, but I wanted to draw you a little attention to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13546	Thank you. Dear representative Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13547	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, I am obliged as one of the promoters of the SNSD Club to come in and say a few words in favor of the text of this Resolution and as an MP who has come forward to suggest it. I want to say that, first of all, this is one of the few resolutions adopted by this Parliament, at least in the last six years that I've been an MP here, but we've always adopted those resolutions around which there was a general consensus here. I believe that this Resolution and the proposed text of this Resolution will be right on that background and that, at least, I expect, we will have the most common consensus today and the position that this Resolution, which is on the background of the commitment to peace, justice, tolerance and reconciliation, will be guided by the UN Charter's objectives and principles and everything else that stands in this text, therefore, as a democratic society that we are all at this end and we are all well-intentioned in this domain that I have mentioned, there are no obstacles to this resolution today and we adopt. And I would just say that in the world over 120 countries have adopted this or similar resolution in relation to the Republic of Azerbaijan and that if we adopt this text as Parliament today, then this resolution in the peace processes run by the... OEPS group. So from that point of view, it is very important for the Republic of Azerbaijan for this resolution to be adopted by our Parliament and BiH as well. And I just want to say in the end that the Republic of Azerbaijan, in what we have so far been able to see and hear, has proved to be a friendly country towards BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13548	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, debate. Here you go. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13549	I thank the chairman. Well, you see, the resolution itself and this text that's been proposed, and the amendments, don't really raise any particular questions. I have to say that I really don't know any details that may be identified, especially from some of the amendments, but I want to remind you, so I don't dispute at all the resolution, or the content, but since this is from the domain of foreign policy it would be quite logical that we had or at least this morning when we agreed, and we supported putting on the agenda of this resolution, that we got the opinion of the Resolute Ministry of Foreign Affairs which is also crucial for the area of foreign policy that this Resolution applies to. So, don't argue at all with the Resolution itself, I, if you've asked the Foreign Ministry's opinion, am withdrawing my intervention. If not, I think so, you'll agree that it would be logical to get it even if until the end of today's session and before it comes out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13550	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, Deputy...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13551	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13552	I didn't see him, I didn't see him on the screen. Excuse me. So, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović. Here, colleague Živković gave priority.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13553	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I have stood up to say that, now as a representative, so my club supports this resolution with the amendments that we have submitted. I would also like to say as an agent that I support this Resolution and these two amendments that have been tabled by my Club and to ask colleagues who are talking about these amendments to support these amendments as well. These amendments actually specify this Resolution and actually give it full clarity and meaning. And that's what I wanted to say, so I appeal and invite you all to support the amendments and, of course, after that, the Amendment Resolution. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13554	Thank you. Honorable representative Milorad Živkovi, deputy chairman. Here you go. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13555	I thank the chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen. Just a few introductory words about the resolution proposed by the SNSD Club, presented by the distinguished colleague Marković. If in the last year, here I have drawn out, in Parliament 4 resolutions, concerns the resolution against violence against women in the family, the resolution on the accelerated process of BiH's accession to EU membership, the resolution on BiH's readiness for NATO integration and the Proposal for a resolution on improving the protection of the family in BiH. I have been able to get as much from our service as the resolution in this House has been adopted and, as you can see, these are resolutions concerning the general principles of human rights and BiH integration. Few or perhaps there were no resolutions concerning specific matters and concerning the individual views of this Parliament on individual issues in the world. I think it should be respected as a result that a single resolution could have come here, as I see from your discussions, with great support for the resolution itself. So the high degree of consensus that we managed to build on this issue. It's an important thing. On the other hand, the name Resolution is a matter of respect and recognition of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Azerbaijan, not a resolution on the conviction of any conflict. Perhaps the author of this resolution was wrong to put the matter in which he joined his fellow European parliamentarians and others in condemning the conflict, because it was not the essence of the resolution. We may have taken a step further where we wanted to, as seen in the preamble, express our attitude and to condemn any crime. So here we can consider ousting this attitude, so the amendment of the SDA as a second is not necessary. We from the SNSD Club will make a meeting and see that we try to convince you that this position, given that it is not only about being a Resolution, we will cast out as an attitude, and perhaps sometime, colleagues and colleagues, we will agree in this Parliament to make some other resolution, not just about this conflict, but about any other recent conflicts here with us where we will arrive and make the compromise and take a step to put such resolutions here on the agenda. As for the first amendment to the SDA, I have nothing against this amendment. He's acceptable to us, if it's acceptable for the U.S.A., that's enough about what I've been saying about the second amendment. But read for yourself the meaning of this sentence, you will see that it is a tautology where it is said in the very name of the country, whose sovereignty we support and how we think it should be solved. If it pleases the U.S.A., we don't have a problem adding it, but read it in the sentence itself, you'll see it's too high. I think he needed this today, and I think it is an important honor in which we should bring together something that we have great agreement on. Let's not go into other people's, let's say, political stories and open up some topics that were neither intentional nor self-indulgent in this resolution. So I invite you to come out in that spirit to the end of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13556	Thank you. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, deputy chairman. Here you go. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13557	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the honourable ambassadors of the Republic of Azerbaijan. I will say briefly a few views of the SDP Club of BiH here at the House of Representatives. BiH and Azerbejdžan are two extremely friendly countries. There are no open and controversial issues between BiH and Azerbaijan. We have already pointed out several times that we, and so do the azerbejdžanski side, want to deepen that co-operation. And I think it's in the mutual interest to promote our co-operation on both political and economic and any other basis. I also want to say here at the pay phone that we are all aware, no matter what political party we belonged to, and that we can all together and thank the Republic of Azerbaijan for BiH's current and political and economic assistance. I am convinced that the goal of this resolution is that it too in some way further advances, further improving relations between BiH and Azerbaijan. For this reason, I would like to say in the end that the SDP Club of BiH supports the text of the Resolution, but also supports the proposed amendments and we will also vote for the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13558	Thank you. Dear fellow Chairman Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13559	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, Your Excellency Ambassadors of the Republic of Azerbaijan. So today we have one of the few resolutions, as said earlier in a debate, and we have a proposal from a club. What I believe is that this resolution affirms is an affirmative of international law. And therefore the name of the Resolution on respect and recognition of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Azerbaijan and the explicits and implications, in fact, not only confirms the postulates of international law but also the integrity of the Republic of Azerbaijan. What I think here, what I mean to say, and what I said to the honourable ambassador in the conversation I had before this session, is that BiH has its specificities. And we all know well that we cannot agree on some fundamental things that are of interest to both the citizens and the peoples of BiH and the state of BiH, and I have asked, therefore, not to ask, to say so, too much of this Parliament because I consider myself a fact which is contained and in the title implies the essence that we all together in international relations should affirm. On the other hand, adopting this resolution in a way that it challenges internal divisions in Parliament or in BiH would certainly be much worse than not adopting it. That is why I believe that, here in this debate and later in the session, which will be certain days between the completion of this Parliament's programme, we should make a great effort to come up with a text that will be adopted by consensus or something like that, but also that will be acceptable to the Republic of Azerbaijan with which we have had friendly relations during our former states. It should not be forgotten that there is a street in the city of Baku in Sarajevo and that there are 59 streets in the city of Sarajevo, that Azerbaijan has been helping and helping humanitarian programmes, that Azerbejdžan is one of the largest investors in the region. All of these are elements that are of interest to both countries to build friendly and good neighbourly relations, but in no case should our international relations be at the expense of our internal relations in BiH. That's why I'm calling for a text that can be adopted by consensus. Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate on this point. I thank his Excellency to the Ambassador of the Republic of Azerbaijan for attending this part of the session. And we move on with the agenda. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. The appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the ranking of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of directors and deputy directors of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina At the 40th House session, held on 03.01.2013, a statement was postponed on this point for the next session. I remind you that candidates for the Agency's director are ranked in the following order: Petar Kovačević, Vlado Rogić, Munib Isaković, Muhamed Mujakić and Aljoša Čampara quit. The candidates of the deputy director were ranked in the following order: Vlado Rogić, Petar Kovačević, Muhamed Mujakić, Munib Isaković and Aljoša Čampara, again. So the debate is closed. We will later declare the appointment of the director and deputy director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH. We're moving on to point 12, Ad. 12. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13563	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. Since I was the initiator of this agenda point, I feel the need to refer to this information in a few sentences. First of all, I would like to thank the Office of the Council of Ministers for the information delivered which I think is very high-quality and which gives sufficient information on the situation in this area when it comes to BiH, and the data suggests that a total of 353 applications have been submitted to BiH before the European Court of Human Rights in the period from 2004 to today, and 280 applications have been solved from that number. Therefore, 73 applications are currently available in the Office of Representatives' work. These are the information you can also see in this Information, in addition to the Council of Ministers' information on new cases. It is evident, therefore, that there are a large number of cases being conducted against BiH. And I've already said that this information provides a really significant insight into the state of these objects, into their nature and so on. Some of these cases, such as the Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Sejdić and Finc against BiH, have a very significant impact on BiH. This verdict that we have been dealing with for a long time requires intervention in the BiH Constitution and requires significant changes in the order and way of functioning of BiH, and is certainly important from that point of view. Of course, from the point of view of our position in relation to the Council of Europe. A particularly significant issue in this Information is also the issue of the jurisdiction of the level of government, i.e. responsibility for the execution of the judgments of the Court. You will see in the Information that at the state level, therefore we are covered by a total of 6 verdicts, which I repeat again, is the most significant judgment of Sejdić and Finc against BiH. The Federation, as I understand from the information, refers to 12 and RS 12. 61 What is very important about this Information and what we, which we should draw attention to today in some way, are the issues, that is, the problems that the Office of the Council of Ministers is facing in the work. First of all, these are issues that plague us daily when it comes to BiH's relationship with institutions outside BiH. That is, therefore, the issue of coordination and the issue of consensus among different levels of government which makes it difficult to implement the European Court of Human Rights rulings. So, what is very important and what we need to pay attention to, if we want to build an effective system of protection and citizens' rights, but also the interests of the state, is to eliminate structural problems affecting a large number of citizens, which is behind them and the obligation of BiH to take general measures that will remove established infringements of rights in relation to all persons covered by it. In this information, it is claimed, therefore, that the vast majority, i.e. a significant number of these cases, refers to structural problems. And if we resolve these issues, we will prevent further processes that will open against BiH. As an example of this, I will state the court's ruling in the case of Ćerimović and Murtić v. BiH, I do not know if this is the correct name, where the court has awarded a fine of 3,600 euros individually for these two appeals. Of course, it's not much, but if it's multiplied by 7,000 people whose rights are hurt in a similar way, or in the same way as these two people, then we get one figure that's very significant, and we need to stress that these judgments have a significant financial impact on BiH. If I understand the information correctly, about 7.6 million marks have been paid so far, so, based on these verdicts and 4.5 million are in the demands of the ongoing appeals. Therefore, it is necessary to find the right way to implement these judgments and set up an efficient system that will remove opportunities for BiH to be sued several times for the same thing and that we practically pay twice for the same mistakes. So, I thank you again for this information. I think it is very important, that it provides the right picture of the situation in BiH in this sense. And I, as part of this agenda point, will propose one conclusion which, in order to improve the work of the Council of Ministers before the European Court of Human Rights and the Office of the Council of Ministers of BiH before the European Court of Human Rights, is to carry out a detailed analysis and propose measures to improve the work of MPs in terms of staff and material strengthening of the Office, a better and clearer definition of the relationship between representatives and the bearer of activities at the time of the court's rulings, and the development of programmes and training of officials at all levels dealing with activities relating to the implementation of judgments. In the Information, you could also see certain objections to the relation of the representative – institutions that are competent to implement these judgments, and it practically comes down to a subjective level. Those officials who are more committed to their work and who want to make their contribution do so well. Those who are less committed, therefore, do not make their full contribution, making it difficult for BiH to be represented, and thus also to be in BiH's position. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13564	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. 62 We're going to the 14th point, Ad. 14. Information on draft no-technical rules for the making of laws and other regulations in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Council of Ministers The BiH Council of Ministers delivered the above information in 12/09/2012. The College of the House sent the information to the Constitutional Legal Commission to give an opinion. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 06.11.2012. The commission took the information into account and proposed to the House to take it to the knowledge, and to reach a conclusion on the establishment of a legal basis and the need for the adoption of no-technical rules for the making of laws and other rules in BiH institutions. The Constitutional Commission of the House also proposed the same thing, and the information with the opinion of the Constitutional Commissions was discussed at the meeting of the Joint College held on 22.01.2013. The Joint College decided that Information with the Commission's opinion should be addressed to the homes for consideration. I'm opening a debate. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13566	Just for a moment, Mr. Chairman, I apologize for being late to report. So, parallel to this, as I understand it, IPA funds, within the European Commission project, here in Parliament are taking activities on, as I would say, when it comes to legislation when it comes to technical aspects of legislation. It's a very expensive project. The project will also need to address the issue of these unique rules. This is something else, this is something that comes from the management coordinator through the Council of Ministers at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And what led me to conclude that something like this had to be proposed, and this was supported by the commission, is the fact that in BiH we have different levels of government, different schools, writing, law making and relations to legislation. This project would actually help each level within its jurisdiction, so not touching... jurisdiction, in fact, in, I would say, an identical way or a similar way to sort out this problem and that's the goal of this project. This is also the goal of this project that goes through the European Commission which is here in Parliament and, here you can as a College, and especially the Secretariat can talk about it a little bit more. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13567	Thank you. Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13568	Mr. Chairman. I have received this proposal and carefully read it and after taking into account this documentation, which applies to this proposal for nomotechnical rules, I believe that the House of Representatives needs 63 to reject this proposal from the Council of Ministers. For many years now, there have been uniform rules for making legal rules in BiH's government institutions. These rules are also present with the institutions of government, i.e. in the RS. The only one who doesn't have a Federation of BiH is the single rules. We have received too much money, and this is one of the typical examples of irrational spending of money when it comes to donations or EU funds. 750,000 KM is given for this project. The House of Representatives is brought before the final act to adopt this and that a quick-written project, which is a copy of the previous one under another name alone, should now be verified by this House of Representatives. I think this is unnecessary, that every year we have a report on the implementation of these unique rules in the making of legal rules in the BiH authorities and that it is possible to make certain changes or additions or proposals for correction to make it work better. We can't because I can't understand, the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office is this the main task of this office? What's the point, anyway, what's the purpose of a project like this? Should several members in the project get 50,000 KM, have several representatives of different levels of government go on one of the study trips and say we're done? Should we give up the grueling path in compliance with these unique rules in the institutions of government or bring confusion into BiH's legal system again, choose some new document that would eventually step down? If we copy it, we copy it for a few hundred marks, deliver it to the institutions, and make a commitment to implement it. If we're making a new one, why, what negatively turned out in the previous one? In this sense, the SNSD Club will vote against such a proposal for a conclusion because this conclusion of the Council of Ministers is that, therefore, the Parliamentary Assembly establishes a legal basis for the adoption of no-technical rules for the making of laws and other rules, and already has them, and has them in BiH institutions, that is to conclude on the need to draw up no-technical rules for the making of laws and other rules in BiH institutions. We don't need either, we have a lot of more pressing jobs to do, let whoever entered this project bear responsibility in terms of justifying such irrational spending of money in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13569	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 15th item of the agenda, Ad. 15. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to agree to the Decision appointing members of the National Minority Council of BiH (proposed by the Joint College of both homes) This Decision was adopted in a different text of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. In view of the fact that the Rules of Procedure are not regulated in the way of harmonising the text, sublaws that bring home, it is necessary, in accordance with Article 165. Rules of Procedure, let's adopt a conclusion so we can access the consent. The proposal of the enlarged College is to name the House of Representatives Nermina Ćemalović, Dragan Vrankić and Saša Bursać from the House of Representatives. 64 I'm opening a debate. We don't have any charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to point 16, Ad. 16. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to implement the procedure for the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of the BiH police structure (proposed by the Joint College of both homes)
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13576	There's no Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13577	Wait a minute, wait a minute, no, but this is the second round, this is the second round, so we adopted in the second round in the first reading. So now we have the conclusions. We have a proposal for the conclusion of Representative Milorad Živković from last session of the House. Should I read it? _________(?) You should. It shall read as follows: - In accordance with Article 114. The Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasked the Commission with selecting and monitoring the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency and coordinating the fight against corruption to organise a public debate on the Proposal for Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. Prepare to vote on this conclusion. Vote now. I find that, with 30 votes for, 1 against, 6 abstentions, with enough entity majority, we have adopted the conclusion of MP Milorad Živković. We are now voting on the proposal for a conclusion from the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which reads: - The proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption in the second reading is delayed until the opinion of the European Commission arrives. _________(?) 68 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13580	I ask that the vote be repeated, I doubt it. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13581	Prepare to vote again. Vote now. I find, therefore, that there is no general majority in this second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13582	The amendment didn't go through.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13583	He didn't mind, so he passed the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13584	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13585	Here's a colleague, Džaferović, a businessman, probably.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13586	Mr. Chairman, therefore in both readings, here are the secretaries let them, the secretary let him say, in both readings and in the first, actually in the first, in both circles, and in the first and second circles there must be a majority, the general majority. If it's not there in any circle, it's too much to go on, if it exists in the second circle, then it's seen if it's 2/3 against or not. Please, the amendment hasn't passed. So it's a clear thing. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13587	Prepare to vote. _________(?) What are we voting on? He's re-expressing suspicion. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13590	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13591	Here you go, colleague Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13592	I apologize for being here at the time of the vote, but I think Azerbejdžan as a country is friendly towards BiH and the whole region and investing, and especially have plans to invest in...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13593	What kind of business intervention is this? 71
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13594	That is why I propose that we do not declare the Resolution, but to give the committee responsible the opportunity to possibly agree on the text, to try.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13595	What's the business?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13596	I have no conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13597	The Rules of Procedure amend this House, therefore, draws conclusions that may be contrary to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13598	Therefore, this proposal has not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, after the vote and I agree, it was rejected in the second round of the vote of Amendment II of the SDA Representatives Club. We are voting on a resolution in its original form. Prepare to vote. Vote now. We are voting on a resolution in its original form as proposed, yes. Vote now. I find that, with 25 votes for, 6 against, 6 abstentions, with enough entity majority, we have adopted a resolution on respect and recognition of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Azerbaijan whose proponents are representatives of the SNSD Club. We're on point 11. – The appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the ranking of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of directors and deputy directors of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have two proposals here and since there are no, therefore, sufficient levels of compliance on these proposals, I suggest that we vote on this point to postpone the plea. Prepare to vote. Vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, there is. 72 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13602	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-01-31-0.u13603	He expressed Živković doubts about the results of the vote. So, we're voting again on the information on the draft no-technical rules as I read earlier. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 17 votes against, 21 against, so we have neither the entity majority nor the general majority, so we rejected this information. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Are you looking or what? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
