ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2762	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, colleagues and fellow delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers and the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 29th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 13 delegates, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people and 4 from the Serbian people. Delegate Mladen Ivanić and Borjana Krišto are unable to attend the session for justified reasons. For the 29th session, I suggest the following, something amended agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 28th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Answer the delegates' questions and new delegates' questions; 3. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Joint Commission Report of both homes to reach agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters; 4. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for an amendment by the delegate Krstan Simić to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for Criminal Sanctions, Detainment and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Second Reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-47/12, of 28.11.2012; 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency (Second Reading) – Delegates: Borjana Krišto, Staša Košarac and Sulejman Tihić, Act No: 01,02-02-1-52/12, of 10.12.2012; 7. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Procedure (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No 01,02-02-1-7/13, of 30.01.2013; 8. Report on the work of the BiH Law Department for the period from 01.01.2012 to 31.12.2012, document of the BiH Law Department, issue: 01.02-10-401/13, from 27.03.2013; 9. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2012, material number: 01,02-29-416/13, from 29.03.2013; 10. Report on the work of the Management Board of the BiH Export and Credit Agency for 2012, link act: 01,02-24-437/13, of 02.04.2013; 2 11. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty of Legal Assistance in Civil and Business Matters between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-411/13, of 28.03.2013; 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria on the mutual provision of legal assistance in criminal matters, the material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-415/13, of 29.03.2013; 13. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty on Extradition between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-424/13, since 01.04.2013; 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the reading of persons with unauthorized residence, the material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-425/13, since 01.04.2013; 15. Granting approval for ratification of Appendix 1 to the Financial Agreement for the Horizontal Nuclear Safety Programme and radiation protection under the 2009 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, BiH material, Presidency No: 01,02-05-2-426/13, of 01.04.2013; 16. Giving consent to ratify the Amending of the Statute of the International Monetary Fund for the Reform of the Executive Board, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-488/13, of 11.04.2013; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the IPA Grant Agreement (Programme of Water Quality Protection: Sub-project for Water and Channelling of Zivnica) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as administrator of the European Commission's Trust Fund for the European Union Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, BiH Presidency material, issue: 01,02-05-2-492/13, of 12.04.2013; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion in relation to income and property taxes, the material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-493/13, of 12.04.2013; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cooperation in the field of defence, materials of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-1-1025/12, of 23.08.2012. Is anyone answering for a word? Any changes and additions? This is a harmonised proposal from the House of Peoples Colleges. If there are no amendments and amendments to the agenda, it shall be adopted and not voted on in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 28th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Since no one's answering our questions, we're voting on the 28th session. Please initiate the voting mechanism. I find that the record of the 28th session of the House of Nations was unanimously adopted. 3 We move to point two, Ad. 2. Answers to Legislative Questions and New Legislative Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2765	...gentlemen presidencies, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished media representatives. First of all, I would like to comment on the initiative to draw up the Law on the Protection of Natural Resources of BiH as a public good. I thank the Council of Ministers for the response he gave me, but I must comment on the fact that by signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, BiH has made a commitment to gradually harmonising its existing laws and future legislation with Aki and thus the area of environmental protection. I appreciate what the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations have done to me in terms of forming a working group for the creation of the Law on the Protection of the Environment of BiH, but at the same time it makes me very unhappy that no agreement has been reached in the process of drawing up a working version of the Law on the Protection of the Environment of BiH for a simple reason because there was no harmonisation of the entity's views. I think that the area of protection of the natural resources of BiH is a national issue and it would be good to have respected representatives of the Council of Ministers sort of make recommendations to entity governments to speed up the adoption of laws on the protection of natural resources and finally determine the place of the agency. The agency's place is the least important thing right now, but it's very important that we protect public goods. That's my reaction to my delegate initiative. And as for my question, which I addressed to the esteemed College of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, there were several questions that I asked – why the funds of the reserve were sought after three months after the adoption of the Budget Law of the BiH Institutions for 2013, why no legal procedure was respected, why new people were hired in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. There was also a question about the purchase of three vehicles with a price of 105,000 marks per vehicle? I want to comment on this, the two documents I got. First of all, thank you for the efforts you've made to deliver me this large act, but I'm going to ask you again to answer my question, because I think you, too, in the Secretariat College, are absolutely convinced and aware of the fact that you haven't answered my question. In addition, in the response that you gave me regarding the qualification structure of employees, so in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, there has been a series of inaccuracies in these data, so for example, a certain, rather large number of employees, who have completed high-speed preparations, are written to have medium-sized equipment, which is not true. And I pray, therefore, that a decidently, taxing answer item by item of what I asked the 4th question. I appreciate what you've delivered, I know that a great deal of effort has been made, but I'm just going to pray for a little extra effort, unless it's going to be a problem for you, that it's simply legal, regular, clear and true. To your response to the procurement, therefore for yours, to request the Parliamentary Assembly from the funds of the current reserve, you have told me in response that, at the request of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for budgetary resources in 2013, the request was prepared in accordance with the law in detail and maximum precision, that you sought 456 000 KM and that the reduced funds for what happened in the adoption of the budget were intended for the salaries and fees of new employees and for capital expenditures. You say that in item one, and in paragraph three, you say that the total number of employees in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has not been increased since 2012. We have information that eight new people have been admitted. Therefore, the contradictions are one and the attitude three, and that should be corrected, unless that is indeed true. And in item two, what is particularly interesting to me, it is said that the legal procedure for seeking these funds at the link between the Council of Ministers and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat is fully respected. I believe with all my heart that this is the case, but please, unless it is difficult for you to deliver to me for the next session as representatives of the act, i.e. the opinions of the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH, the Office for Legislative Affairs and the Administrative Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2766	Thank you very much. Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2767	The Honorable Working Presidency, chair of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers, directors of certain agencies, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to welcome you. I would like to comment on the answer to the delegate's question. Namely, I received an answer on the delegate issue I asked at the 28th National House session of 16 April 2013 whose content I am not satisfied with because it covers only a numerical part of the cases that the Court of BiH has exempt from entity courts in accordance with Article 7(2). The law on the BiH Court, which is only an answer to the first part of my question. In an act I received from the Court of Justice in response to the delegation issue since 16 May 2013, there is no information at all that should contain an answer to the second part of my delegate issue. The missing answer concerns the BiH Prosecutor's Office, i.e. how the BiH Prosecutor's Office found out that crimes were committed that would be applied in accordance with Article 7(2). The law on the BiH Court of Justice, i.e. whether the cases were dropped by entity prosecutors or the BiH Prosecutor's Office has been acting on its own initiative and has requested the exemption of cases from the jurisdiction of entity prosecutors and how the BiH Prosecutor's Office found out that such a case exists in the entity's prosecutor's office. Given the above, I point out that I am not satisfied with the answer and I want an answer that would fully reflect the elements of my question referred to at the 28th session of the People's House since 16 April 2013. Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2768	Thank you very much. Krstan Simić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2769	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Given that at this point the topic is parliamentary issues, i.e. the delegate and the answer to these questions I am taking advantage of the opportunity, perhaps I am not ready, I did not count on asking that question, that almost three, four months ago I asked one question that I had not received the answer to today. The issue is about one of the biggest affairs in BiH, the issue of tax evasion in the case of textiles and Mr. Anes Sadiković, who is in the prosecution's custody, where the most optimistic estimates are that around 30 million KM have been hidden on behalf of taxes, excise duties and other duties. And Mr. Anes Sadiković, his firm, through the Intellectual Property Protection Agency, concluded a whole 156 contracts that protected an industrial brand of laundry that is customs-tonnes, so I asked the question – whether and how could it have happened, especially since these 156 contracts provided a monopoly to Mr. Anes Sadiković and to achieve as much damage to the interests and budget of Republika Srpska. I would ask that answer to be forwarded to me, and in the course of the day I will deliver the exact date when the question is asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2770	Okay, thank you very much. Kronoslav Vrdoljak. Sir, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2771	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to comment on the question I asked the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which concerns the flood of diplomats of various higher schools in an illegal manner. The ministry's reply is correct, however, as an integral part of this response, they also provided a response provided by the Information and Recognition Centre in the area of higher education, where they say very cynically, I quote - in our opinion the appointed MP is obliged to inform the relevant police agency about the facts that he states in his question. That's the answer. I didn't expect so much cynicism, because I should, therefore, be an envoy to the House of Peoples on a matter that I systematically ask to try to resolve at the state level, that I am informing the police, because she is the only one in charge of this country to address the issue of illegally acquired diplomas. I think it's an honor to have this agency answer like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2772	Thank you very much. 6 Approximately, here is the answer to the delegates' questions we see that none of the delegates are fully satisfied, I think we could adopt a conclusion – to ask those to whom questions are referred to to to answer precisely and to the part to which they are not ultimately answered. And when it comes to Mr. Krstan Simić, let's give a rush, a rush, because the question was asked a few months ago. I think we can adopt one such conclusion. Now we move on to delegate issues. Here, Staša Košarac answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2773	Thank you, Chairman. Question, I have three questions very brief. The first question I want to ask the BiH Prosecutor's Office. In fact, in 23.11.2012, on the basis of the delegation question I referred to the BiH Agency for Investigation and Protection in the case of the BHMAC Mine Removal Centre, I was informed that the Crime and kriminalistračko-istražni Department of this Agency had been ordered by the Prosecutor's Office to initiate the investigation procedure in connection with the 2010 Mine Removal Centre's financial report and that the investigation agency had provided information, i.e. the case to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and I am interested in this matter – at what stage is this case in the BiH Prosecutor's Office? For a simple reason, I would like to point out to all of us that we are very often informed by people in the process of demining, whether it is about the non-governmental sector or the commercial sector, about a series of alleged irregularities in this agency itself, and I think that from the aspect of protection and professional credibility and personal credibility of people working in that Agency, at the end of the day, we could all be able to respond to each other in a way that we will have the right to find competent institutions that can only determine that, and not at all, whether it is non-governmental organisations, whether it is the commercial sector or at the end of the day to any public who has no mandate to judge such a thing. I think that's how we're going to help everyone in this process. I would like to ask the second question of the Agency's management to prevent corruption and coordinate the fight against corruption, noting that the Defence and Security Commission has also concluded that it is necessary for management to launch accommodation activities, i.e. permanent accommodation of this Agency. I am interested – What has the Agency's management started? In view of the fact that we were appalled by the fact that this one agency, which is very important to the general public in this society, is located in one of the malls, which we find completely unacceptable that in addition to certain shops of different goods there is one such agency. And we think that, in the extreme context and through the accommodation of BiH institutions, it is necessary to find adequate and secret accommodation for this agency, stressing that it is very important that we take care of the dispersive headquarters of these agencies, and above all I think that this should continue in the future in eastern Sarajevo. And the third question I would like to ask the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, which is – at what stage is the implementation of the Agreement on the Co-operation of the BiH Council of Ministers and the NGO sector in BiH? Thank you 7
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2774	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragutin Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2775	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. My question will be addressed to the Council of Ministers, and as we know at the invitation of Mr. Štefan File, Commissioner for Enlargement and European Policy, representatives of the executive and leading political parties of BiH attended the opening of a high-level dialogue on the EU accession process held in Brussels on 27 June 2012. At the meeting, the European Commission once again stressed that BiH has a clear European perspective. In this regard, all participants agreed on a map of roads that could allow, if implemented in good time and successfully, for the country to submit a credible application for EU membership before the end of 2012. One of the most important segments of the agreed Map of Times is that the views expressed in EU institutions reflect an agreement with all the competent institutions and authorities in BiH as a result of effective co-ordination. It was therefore necessary to establish a functional coordination system. In the 2012 Progress Report, the European Commission found that the lack of coordination has become a major obstacle for BiH in the process of EU integration. Tempo reform is unequal, the state is unable to act unanimously, and the EU is facing problems in efforts to provide assistance to BiH. The BiH Council of Ministers appointed a team on 16 October 2012 to draw up the coordination mechanism documents in the European integration process. My question is – How far has it come with the drafting of the coordination mechanism documents, and what is the biggest obstacle to establishing a BiH-level coordination system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2776	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2777	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask my question to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, I ask them – When will the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees submit an annual report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the occurrences of discrimination in BiH and propose concrete legislative or other measures in this regard? In my explanation, I regret to say that, in accordance with Article 8(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law prohibiting discrimination, the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is required to report annually, through the BiH Council of Ministers, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the occurrences of discrimination in BiH and on this to propose concrete legislative or other measures. The Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly also asked the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to, in 8 in accordance with Article 8. By 31.03.2013, the Anti- Discrimination Act submitted an annual report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the occurrences of discrimination with the recommendation that the annual report contains a review of the period from the adoption of the law until the end of 2012. Since the deadline has long passed, i.e. that the Law was passed in 2009, and we have not received the report since then, I would like an urgent written response from the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to the asked question. I'm asking the Foreign Ministry my second question. I want to say that the Foreign Ministry has recently highlighted its successes and progress in solving so-called "the media" on several occasions. open issues between BiH and Croatia, many times many of my colleagues from the Parliamentary Assembly were advertised and warned on time. Making sure that the whole story between BiH and the Republic of Croatia is involved with the third party – the EU, which insists that these problems will have to be solved in line with the EU's legal legacy in the so-called so-called 'EU'. an emergency package. In this same package on the route of the lines of talks, Brussels – Zagreb – Sarajevo, then, the areas that we have talked about here many times, relating to border crossing agreements, border traffic, goods transit through the port of Ploca through the territory of BiH in Neum, the construction of the access road to border crossings with all inspection services, the consideration of the model of resolving the territorial discontinuity of the Republic of Croatia and the possibility of crossing the border with personal IDs. Taking into account the fact that bilateral and recently bilateral meetings have been held, so at the level of ministers at which the above issues have been discussed, I want the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to give us a detailed answer – What in this series of successes they have done in terms of the border between BiH and Croatia, will Croatia have to be included, will the international community have to be included as an arbiter for resolving the border between BiH and Croatia in terms of maritime demarcation? I want them to answer our question – What have they solved in terms of property legal disputes between BiH, or have they finally signed an Immigrant and Legal Agreement between BiH and Croatia? And what interests me and my colleagues most in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly – What is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs except two or three, I could not say diplomatic meetings, but two or three meetings when it activated the issue and problems of workers from BiH, especially workers from Republika Srpska, and it was 13,626 workers, what the Foreign Ministry did to address the problem of working-legal status and property status of BiH citizens who were in the period of war in Croatia, were left without a job, without their property. Let them present to us exactly the results of these good successes to finally make sure that these are indeed the successes of the Foreign Ministry and that the very sensitive population of Bosnian Herzegovina citizens is truly protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2778	Thank you very much. Mr. Mehmed Bradarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2779	Dear working presidency, colleagues and colleagues, the respected chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers and guests, good afternoon to all. 9 I have one initiative. At the last session of the House of Nations, held 40 days ago, it was waiting for two months. So this House very rarely holds its meetings, and even fewer important points, acts, activities at the House sessions, which, of course, shows, is this session today and in this spirit of thought, I propose an initiative for a permanent session of both Houses of Parliament, because at this point BiH is the only country in the region that is seeking the EU and does not have a national integration programme, so there is no strategy that would confirm and awaken the determination for reforms. The result is that the EU reform priorities, i.e. those priorities are not defined, then the problems in the integration process are solved or not solved by ad hoc principles, and the state as we see it lags behind other countries in the region when this issue is discussed. A hundred and a hundred thousand times from the EU have said there is no credible application for EU membership until the issue of Sejdić and Finc is resolved as the verdict demands. In the clear division of responsibility for resolving these, responsibility for these failures, of course the biggest blame lies with the BiH parliaments for not taking active part in solving these problems, so we, and for actually letting others decide on our behalf. I'm sure we're sitting here all the time, sitting here, it's not unknown, I don't even know if it says in the Rules of Procedure, it doesn't even have to write, but I think one such behaviour of the MPs is necessary, and I'm sure the results would simply be fruitful. This initiative requires a written reply, so I expect a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2780	Thank you very much. Mr. Krstan Simić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2781	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two very short questions. The first question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. The Ministry of Finance. Given the economic crisis the entire world is suffering, on the one hand, and the political economic crisis of BiH, which is even more pronounced, I would ask for information to be provided to all of us – What is the state of budgeting for the period 01.01.- 30.04.2013 compared to the same period of the previous year? And in that direction – is there a real danger that we won't be able to achieve... a plan, that we don't get into a worse budget deficit? I must point out that there is a very, very high presence of pessimism in local communities, because there is budget filling below the expected plans, so it would be good while we still have time to see what the state of budget filling is and at the level of the BiH state. The second question is also addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Justice, as it in a certain way implies relations between one and the other resistors. You're all witnessing Mr. Keljmendi's recent arrest in Pristina. Of course I don't want to be a judge here and judge whether Mr. Keljmendi is guilty or not, it's exclusively in the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities who need to determine whether there's a crime or what the judiciary is going to do. However, his arrest and his action through the media are linked to a very significant number of very prominent political and social figures, and it is BiH's interest to end the process by clarifying these issues and that no one carries a mortgage on his name. A very serious newspaper released information that in 2008, SIPA documented and made a report on the suspicions of Mr Keljmendi illegal conduct. Very serious newspapers have said 10, so in 2008, today in 2013, it has been five years since that report, which I have no doubt, because the long story of Mr. Keljmendi's actions was present in the public of BiH, so I am interested – Is it true that SIPA made up that report, or has obtained relevant information and evidence that could raise the issue of established suspicion and enter the process? And if so, how is it possible that this procedure has not been completed for 5 years, because today is 2013? And especially how is it possible, therefore, that the procedure finally went into a large circle of persons, who were suspected of certain criminal acts, Mr. Keljmendi left BiH and went to a state that had no obligation to deliver him to BiH? The answers to these questions are very important, I repeat again because of the BiH public and because of the people who are being brought into the context of the relationship with Mr Keljmendi and at the end of the establishment of the rule of law in BiH, which is the fundamental basis of every serious state, because without the rule of law and legal certainty there is no country thank you either.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2782	Thank you very much. Here, no one's answering their words anymore. I'm closing the second point. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the Joint Commission Report of both homes to reach agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters At the 28th session of the House of People, held on 16 April 2013, we discussed the Report of the Joint Commission of both homes to reach agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. During the vote, the said report did not receive the necessary entity majority, so it was agreed in the House College as a commission. You've reached the College of the House Report. Members of the House of Nations Colleges as a committee failed to reach agreement on the Joint Commission Report of both homes to achieve agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. In accordance with Article 73(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, We are voting on the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations on the Report of the Joint Commission of both homes to reach agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. Decisions shall be taken by a majority of the votes cast by those present and voting on condition that the votes against must not contain 2/3 or more of the votes of the delegates elected from each entity. In accordance with Article 117(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the House of People, which reads – If both homes do not adopt a negative Report of the Joint Commission, the draft law shall be submitted to the Joint Commission for the purpose of drawing up a new report in accordance with home guidelines. 11 We vote on a negative report from the Joint Commission. Please initiate the voting mechanism. Of the 12 present – for the 9, against the 3, abstentioned none. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So I find that this report has been passed and the law is, here is the refusal. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for an amendment by delegate Krstan Simić to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for Criminal Sanctions, Detainment and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2786	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2787	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2788	Let's just finish this vote and then we'll take a break, here at the request of Krstan Simić. Please initiate the voting mechanism on the founding law...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2789	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2790	All right, here's my break for five minutes. [[PAUZA]] I ask you to initiate the voting mechanism on item 5 of the agenda, which is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of BiH. Here I find out that, of the 13 present, all 13 were in favor and that the law was passed. I find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for the Implementation of Criminal Penalties, Detentions and Other Measures of BiH has been adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives, and that we need to form a Joint Commission for the Consensation of Texts. Any suggestions from the Joint Commission? The Srbin Club? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2796	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2797	It's Staša's mikrofon.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2798	Thank you, Chairman. I owe it to the Rules of Procedure to give an explanation, which is why we asked for a five-minute break. Namely, I would like to inform the House of the People that Mr Tadić was out of the hall at the time of his statement on item 3, since he had certain professional obligations that had been established in advance. And I would suggest that in that context we repeat the vote, when it comes to point 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2799	It's just that we in the College don't mind just seeing how it's technically possible to perform. If it's possible to approach the vote again. Can the voting mechanism be launched according to the 3rd item of the agenda – Commission Report of the College of Efforts to reach agreement on the Joint Commission Report. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2800	Report, report. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2801	Here in the College, we agreed to respect this proposal, because we are interested in keeping this law alive, so to discuss it. We therefore vote on the Commission's Report from the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Joint Commission Report of both homes to reach agreement... _________(?) Is this a repeat session? No, no, just these agenda points. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2805	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2806	There's no need. Thank you. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if there is any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? Halid the Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2808	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll explain it very briefly. So the predstavnički of Representatives adopted 8 amendments. Our committee, which was responsible, ustavnopravni, adopted the same seven amendments, so the difference is in one amendment. I also offered that amendment to the Constitutional Commission. The Commission did not accept it and now I am renewing it according to the Rules of Procedure, and this is what I stress, therefore, and this is what the predstavnički and the amendment adopted, it is that this proposal amends and complements the Commission to consider, among other things, the reports on the review of the financial operations of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption. In view of the fact that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Commission on Finance and Budgets, both at home and at home, has jurisdiction to consider the audits of the report and the general issues related to the budget and the financing of institutions, if it remains as proposed, then the two commissions will be responsible for considering the report on the review of the financial operations of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I think that there is no need for this commission to have the responsibility, but to, in general, the Finance and Budget Committee to consider reports on the revision of the financial operations of all institutions and these agencies. For these reasons, I have renewed this amendment and I suggest that it be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2809	Thank you very much. The word was "Krstan simic". Here you go, Mr. Simić. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2810	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Genjac gave the exact chronology that we on the Constitutional Legal Commission were seriously considering these issues and that the 7 amendments were accepted, that the only thing left was the disputed amendment. Why did he stay slow? If we had made a compromise on 7 amendments, the eighth wouldn't have been controversial if we hadn't had one very, very justified reason. That reason was that this particular provision, that the commission had, come on now figuratively I'll say, the connection to these audit reports had just been aimed and was one of the fundamental elements of this law to strengthen the fight against corruption. If we were to keep all those institutions that had previously done the right to control and carry out reports, I don't know what we'd get by that law. And that was motive, and that was the motive and the proponents who explained to us that it was one key provision by them and therefore the Constitutional Commission, with all votes except Mr Genjac, did not support this amendment. So also delegates have in mind that the wish of the House's promoter and desire to increase as much as possible control against corruption and that this is exactly the kind of report, which will be specifically discussed at the special sessions of this commission, will be an additional mechanism. That is the only reason why we, the rest of the Constitutional Commission, did not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2811	Thank you very much. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, we're going first to vote, there's Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2812	I'm taking the opportunity to apologize, of course to my colleagues and colleagues, once again looking for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2813	Okay, thank you very much. Break five minutes. [[PAUZA]] We can approach the vote on Mr Halid Genjac's amendment to the delegates. Please initiate the voting mechanism. I find that out of the 12 present - for the four delegates, against the 7, abstention 1. There is no general majority, no amendment adopted. We're crossing now, voting on the bill. Please initiate the voting mechanism. 17 I find that out of the 12 present, all 12 delegates were in favour. There's both a general and an entity majority. I find that the law has been passed. The Law has also been adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives, and we need to form a Joint Commission for text alignment. I'd like to make a suggestion. _________(?) Club bosses.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2817	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2818	There isn't. I'll give the word to the promoter, if he's present. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No need, he's present. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? Since no one's answering for a word, we approach the vote. Please initiate the voting mechanism. I find that, of the 13 present, 12 for, 1 abstention and that the Law was adopted in the same text as in the House of Representatives. 18 We move to the eighth point of the agenda, Ad. 8. Report on BiH's Attorney General's Office's work for the period from 01.01.2012 to 31.12.2012, BiH's Attorney General's material
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2821	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2822	There isn't. I give my word to the Reporter, if there's any need? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Since no one's answering for a word...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2824	He's got Krstan Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2825	Krstan Simić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2826	I will not talk about the Report because this is a data set and especially what the Report for the previous period is submitted by the newly elected Ombudsman. However, you all remember the problem that was last year that the 2011 Report was not adopted because the House of Representatives stood at the stand, and we also stopped following that decision of the House of Representatives, that we would not consider the Report because according to the Law on Defence, the report is required to be delivered to the Council of Ministers. They do, but the Council of Ministers never puts this report on its agenda. And now the question is raised, the employer is basically the Council of Ministers of the Defence, and we believe that this time we have violated the principle that we would not be in a position not to consider and adopt a report of such an important institution that protects the property, that next year we will not do so unless we have a previous report, we have had the position and to consider the report by the Council of Ministers whose legal obligation it is. 19 This time we left practice after the 2011 Report because we think it would be unserious, but we concluded on the Constitutional Committee that we are passing this warning on and that next year we have no problem with it, that someone is obstructing the Report for these and those reasons, simply and because we want to get into a position that everyone is doing their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2827	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Mehmed Bradarić came forward for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2828	BiH's defence has, of course, an important and active role in protecting BiH's assets and property interests, which this report also shows. Unfortunately, it seems to me that they were left to themselves even though they warned the authorities that the existing laws and its provisions had become an obstacle to its functioning as absurd, and they had repeatedly asked the BiH institutions, so both Parliament and the Council of Ministers to make amendments and supplement to the Law on Defence or even to make and develop a new Law on Defence. I read the last report and the previous report, and it would be interesting to look back at a few conclusions that have been repeated for many years. I'm only going to draw two conclusions here, and that's paying by the judicial verdicts of the so-called so-called court. the litigation process and the issue of state property. Although the Ministry of Finance and Treasury has made an instruction on how to execute BiH institutions' court rulings, it seems to me that this was still done in 2007, in most cases the judicial verdicts are not executed. So the decision, criteria and instructions, which the Ministry alone has made, does not respect. It is even recommended to resolve these disputes peacefully, so that is not the case. I will just point out that in 2011, in the name of the court rulings from the BiH institutions' budget, it seems to me that I am not mistaken, which is about 2.5 million marks, and in 2012, no less money has been allocated. So it's really big money that I think, and they wouldn't have to go that way. Otherwise, the value of the disputes, when it comes to executive and litigation procedures, is about a billion and a half, and it sees the importance of the pravobranilaštvo General. But the state didn't create, gave them the conditions that they could function normally and efficiently. And this issue of state property, it seems to me, for seven years now, has been in force of the Act on the temporary ban on the availability of state property, and the Commission for State Property, as I understand it, is applying the exceptions there. So, it shares state property, and I will remind you that the BiH Constitutional Court said that the state property is the property of the BiH state, is not an entity. And here's a question for you to tell me -- if there are such cases, if there are such exceptions where the State Property Commission is doing, I don't know whether or not I know what, here's what you'll answer me when it comes to this state property. So on this, this report shows that you have warned BiH institutions several times. Unfortunately, there's no answer. And because of the unresolved status of state property, this Attorney General has been prevented from acting on certain requirements, i.e. on certain cases. So I support those eight conclusions there, they're more than they were this year, some are identical, some are repeated, but really they're asking that it's no longer happening that they're doing 20 repeats, and that nothing about the conclusions is being solved or done. Here, please answer only one specific question.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2829	Okay, thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mlađen Mandić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2830	Honorable chairman, respected delegates, ladies and gentlemen. As the esteemed delegate said, I've only been BiH's attorney for six months, but it doesn't change the matter that about the report that's in front of you, not to say a few things about him. The first thing that matters, most precisely, is that the D.A., at least for the past six months, I have the impression that it's on the sidelines of all events, and not to say all the other aids, from the BiH institutions. A little heavy, maybe, but maybe that's what I think. What's most important is that it's a matter of state property. I repeat, and this is probably more than once I've said it myself, BiH needs a law on state property. In order to register state property, there must be a legal basis. The legal basis, which deals with civil law, knows that there are four ways to acquire property in real estate. Among others is one law, agreement, etc., inheritance, that's irrelevant. I'm warning again, so the pravobranilaštvo doesn't mind that after the law is passed, the state's assets are being registered in the state and the rest of the assets are being agreed. Therefore, what I am trying to explain all the time, and apparently no one understands me, any agreements that have not been translated into BiH's Law on BiH's Defence are not the legal basis, and we will not be able to register any of the countries. Not us, but the Court can't do that, because there's no legal basis. That's it. If there's anything else, I can answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2831	Okay. Thank you very much. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2832	There is a Commission on the Council of Ministers for Exclusion, since you know that there is a Law on the ban on the movement of property, there is a Commission on the Council of Ministers that excludes certain particles and that is quite legal, legal, decisions are made and therefore there are also decisions being made to book parts of state property. And it's a legitimate path.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2833	Okay, thank you very much. Since no one's answering for word anymore, we're voting on the report. Please initiate the voting mechanism. 21 I find that the report has been adopted. Of the 13 present – 12 for, 1 abstention. There's a general and entity majority. Report's been passed. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2012 You have received the opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications of the House of Peoples. The Commission adopted the Report and proposed that it be adopted to the House. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 47th session, held on 18.04.2013. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Hasan Bećirović, if there is any need?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2835	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2836	There's no need. I give my word to the submiter's report if there's any need? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Since no one is answering for a word, please initiate the voting mechanism on the Report. I find that out of the 13 present - all 13 were in favour and the report was adopted. We're going to the 10th item of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Report on the work of the Management Board of the BiH Export Credit Agency for 2012
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2839	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2840	There isn't. Thank you. I give my word to the Reporter, if he's present? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who answers the word. Mr. Halid Genjac called. Here you go, Halida.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2844	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2845	All right, all right. Then I suggest that we adopt this report with the conclusion of Mr. Genjac to deliver this detailed information that he presented in his presentation. Can we adopt it like this, to initiate the voting mechanism? Of the 13 present - they are all 13 for. I find that the report, with this conclusion, was adopted unanimously. We're moving on to the next agenda points. These are giving consent to ratifying agreements and conventions. I propose that we bring together the debate on granting consent to ratify the agreement and the conventions referred to in points 11 to 19, including point 19. I'm opening a debate. Who's up for this proposal? Please initiate the voting mechanism. I find the proposal unanimously adopted. All 13 in attendance were in favour. Ad. 11. - 19. Giving consent to ratification of agreements and conventions You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication. 24 I give the President of the Commission, Hasan Bećirović, if there is any need?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2847	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-05-22-0.u2848	There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Niko one's answering for a word. We vote on granting consent to ratifying the agreements and conventions referred to in points 11 to 19, including item 19 of the agenda. Please initiate the voting mechanism. Of the 13 present, they were all in favour. I agree that we have agreed to ratify the agreements and conventions referred to in points 11 to 19, including item 19 of the agenda and that the session of the House of Peoples is over. Thank you very much. Session completed at 12:45 p.m.
