ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3376	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH and other invited guests, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 33rd session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 13 delegates, of whom 3 from Bosniak, 5 from Croatian and 5 from the Serbian people. Delegates Sulejman Tihić and Hasan Bećriović are unable to attend the session for justified reasons. For the session, I propose the following, updated agenda of the Agenda 1. Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of the Chair of the National Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material number: 02-50-6-145/13, of 05.11.2013; 2. Proposal for a Decision on the election of the Chair of the National Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material number: 02-50-6-146/13, of 05.11.2013; 3. Proposal for a Decision replacing Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign trade and economic relations ministers, Bosnia and Herzegovina's Deputy Defence Minister and Deputy Minister for Human Rights and Refugees Bosnia and Herzegovina, material number: 02-50-6-l47/13, of : 05.11.2013; 4. The adoption of the minutes from the 32nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 5. Answer the delegates' questions and new delegates' questions; 6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Act No 01,02- 02-1-23/13, of 20.05.2013; 7. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Act No 01,02-02-1-25/13, of 29.05.2013; 8. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing the Single Parent Code by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Act No 01,02-02-1-34/13, of 17.07.2013; 2 9. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Act No 01,02-02-1-35/13, of 17.07.2013; 10. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on residence and residence of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Act No 01,02-02-1- 36/13, of 17.07.2013; 11. Borjana Krišto request for an examination of the Bill on Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the Institutions of BiH – Proposer: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 02-02-1-32/13, of 19.07.2013; 12. The request of delegates Krstan Simić and Dragutin Rodić to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Law No 02-02-1-42/13, of 12.09.2013; 13. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-124/13, since 15/08; 14. Proposal for a law on liability for nuclear damage (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-14/13, of 05.06.2013; 15. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-21/13, of 12.09.2013; 16. Proposal for a Law on Witness Protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-20/13, of 02.07.2013; 17. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on indirect taxation (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No 01,02-02-1-41/13, of 10.09.2013; 18. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-14/13 of 20/09/2013; 19. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Freedom of Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-38/13, since 24/09/2013; 20. Proposal for a law on the protection of persons reporting corruption in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives, Law No: 02-02-1-39/13, of 11.10.2013; 21. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02- 02-1-40/13 of 11.10.2013; 22. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012, issue: 01,02-50-19-907/13, of 13.08.2013; 23. Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012, issue 02-09-495/13 of 15.04.2013; 24. Opinion of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security with a proposal for conclusions on the blockade of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions from 05 to 07/06/2013, issue: 01-50-1-15-49/13 of 27.08.2013; 3 25. Information on the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2012, the BiH Ministry of Security material, number: 02-04-563/13, of 10.07.2013; 26. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2012, the Council of Ministers' material, issue: 01.02-16-1-860/13, dated 22.07.2013; 27. Impact review report – Management of goods seized in customs procedures, Office material for the revision of BiH institutions, issue: 02/3-16-1-820/13, of 12.07.2013; 28. Impact review report – Conditions for effective and effective VAT control and forced debt collection, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 02/3-16-1-819/13, since 16.07.2013; 29. Selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security and the selection of one member who will take office instead of a member of the Management Board (Rang-list of the Temporary Joint Commission of both homes), issue: 01,02-50-14-168-8,1/13, of 29.08.2013; 30. Proposal for a conclusion of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for Draft Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH and the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, No: 02-50-6-16-33/13, of 05.11.2013; 31. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe Development Bank, issue: 01,02-05-2-894/13, of 01.08.2013; 32. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on international road transport, No 01,02-05-2-896/13 of 02.08.2013; 33. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Czech Republic on international road traffic, No 01,02-05-2-897/13, of 02.08.2013; 34. Giving consent to the ratification of the First Credit Agreement (the "Modernisation of the University of Banja Luka") between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, and Raiffeisen Bank International AG, issue: 01.02-05-2-898/13, of 02.08.2013; 35. Giving consent to the ratification of the AIDS BiH Munic WatSan-WatSan-Invest Grant Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, issue: 01,02-05-2-899/13, of 02.08.2013; 36. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in the area of the defence industry, No 01,02-05-2-904/13, of 07.08.2013; 37. Granting approval for ratification of Treaty No 1 on the Amendment to the Loan Treaty concluded on 28 October 2008 (Corridor 5c project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No: 01,02-05-2-1008/13, of 19.09.2013; 38. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the 2012 State Programme under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, No: 01,02-05-2-100/13, of 19/09/2013; 39. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Treaty (Cazin Channelling Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No: 01,02-05-2- 1019/13, of 24.09.2013; 4 40. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on border crossings, No: 01,02-05-2-1009/13 of 19.09.2013; 41. Granting consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury (loan) and ERSTE Bank der Oesterreichischen Sparkassen AG, Austria (loaner) – Project for the procurement of medical equipment for health institutions in Unsko-Sanski Canton, No: 01,02-05-21007/13, of 19.09.2013; 42. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission concerning the IPA programme of Adriatic cross-border co-operation under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, No: 01,02-05-1054/13, of 07.10.2013; 43. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Civil Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in the field of education, No: 01,02-05-1055/13, of 07.10.2013; 44. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on Border Traffic, No: 01,02-05-1056/13, of 07.10.2013; 45. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the surrender and acceptance of a person whose entry or stay is illegal, No: 01,02-05-1059/13, of 07.10.2013; 46. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia on the application of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the surrender and acceptance of a person whose entry or stay is illegal, No 01,02-05-1060/13, of 07.10.2013; 47. Giving consent to ratification Supplement No. 1 of the Financial Agreement on the 2009 State Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina - Part I of the IPA - Assistance in Transition and Construction of Institutions, issue: 01,02-05-1040/13, of 01.10.2013; 48. Giving consent to ratification of the Joint Declaration of interpretation and application of Article 11. Agreement on free transit through the territory of the Republic of Croatia to and from Luke Ploca and through the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina to Neum, No: 01,02-05-1041/13, of 01.10.2013; 49. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No. 2 at the Finance Treaty concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank on 26/03/2007 in Sarajevo, with subsequent changes – Road Recovery Project in the Federation of BiH, No: 01,02-05-1068/13, of 09.10.2013. Is anyone answering for a word? Are there any amendments and additions to the agenda? I remind you, this is a concerted agenda and order of the College of the House of Peoples. As far as I can tell, there are no reports. If there are no amendments and amendments to the agenda, it shall be adopted and not voted on in accordance with Article 40. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We're going to point one, five Ads. 1. Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution of the Presidency of the People's House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina The club of delegates of the Serb people in the House of Peoples mostly addressed the College of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on 05.11.2013, an initiative to adopt a Decision on the resolution of the chairman of the People's House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I give my word to the initiative's applicants. Here you go. He has no intention. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3378	I give my word to the chairman, Mr. Tadić. Here you go, Mr. Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3379	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Čović, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends. This is the first such situation in 2013-2006, that is how many years of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and about the House of Peoples. And she's nothing unusual. I really ask you to know that, regardless of the outcome of today's vote, I have had both the honor and the privilege and the satisfaction of working with many of you in a completely fair, open, honest and correct way, even more than the public in BiH would think, I am achieving those results behind which was a platform in which one of the equal partners was SDS. And that's why, to relax this atmosphere a little bit, what I'm saying today, and somehow it's my turn to say a few words, maybe start with some kind of joke. Because when my colleagues in the SDS asked me how you're gonna deal with this whole situation today, there are 15 people out there, you're the only one in the SDS, I said - I'll surround them. And so I say we really have surrounded this situation. She's clear from all sides. We have sagledati it fully and the decision that will be taken is the decision behind which will be taken by the majority formed in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, on some new... principles in which the SDS does not participate. But before I describe this enviroment, I must really refer to one very ugly statement, one of the country's high officials, one of the ruling parties, Mr Radmanović, who has described this whole process and this story that was happening in all of this as some kind of a delay in the SDS because we're more of a grammist when it comes to public and political functions. If someone else had said it, I would have kept quiet, everyone has their own electoral body, let them address it as they will, but to be told by a man who in his narrow family has more officials than the SDS has in the Council of Ministers, all SDS, it really doesn't make sense. And that's my basic observation in this whole process, when it comes to what we've been going through all this time. In that sense, thank Mr. Krstan Simić, a delegate from the Serbian People's Club, who clarified the situation yesterday, so the public now knows that no delay was at stake when it came to putting these points on the agenda, but that only today was the Club of 6 delegates of the Serbian people and definitely came forward about the initiative to replace the Council of Ministers and supported Mr. Košarac's initiative, delegates from the order of the Serb people and club presidents, in connection with a resolution from the presidency of me and the appointment of another representative from the Serbian People's Club. I think Mr. Krstan Simić did it honestly and I think it's some kind of example that should remain as a role model for other delegates here, regardless of what political parties' views are. How did I get into this situation today? In 2010, in the SDS elections, she promised her voters that if she received trust in RS, she would work in line with the promised programme. If he doesn't get the trust, he gets the SNSD, that he'll act like an opposition and constructive and open and firm and uncompromising. And that's how we acted. The same year in 2010 and I and other representatives of the SDS at all our meetings made it very clear that, regardless of the situation in the RS, we invite citizens to support the unity of Serbian parties in the joint bodies of BiH, because only through this RS policy ceases to be threatened from the outside and has the opportunity to deal with internal problems and deal with them. And that's where I put an end to the story about the RS. All that we have delegates from the order of the Serb people to say to each other on the subject we will say in our house, RS, here we will deal with those topics that are related to the joint bodies of BiH. What's important is that apparently all the signatories of the Platform didn't understand that platform equally. And I only concluded that when many people, the people we worked with from our partner party until yesterday, said that they supported the Platform because they thought that in some way it would grow into a stronger interparty agreement that would eventually lead to a joint appearance in the 2014 elections. It's possible that they thought that way, but it's certain that no one in the SDS promised it, signed it, didn't sign it, didn't agree. And apparently different expectations were from the platform itself. And it's something that I and I don't want to discuss here any of the federal parties, but it's important for the public to know that there was no time when there was a fig behind the back of the platform. Because it was very clear – we are here together, one vote from the RS, in the RS we are opposition. If it fits, it answers, if it doesn't answer, that platform didn't have to be signed. Of course, many have asked, well, if you are dissatisfied with the situation with other partner political parties, not only from the RS, but also with the six-members, why were you in the coalition? Why didn't you step out of it, be an opposition party, perform oppositionally and thus relax political relations as a whole? I must remind myself that we have taken a stand here, at least when it comes to six, that the Council of Ministers is not elected, but assembled, and that no programming match has been sought between any political party that made up the six. The match existed only on those topics signed by the six-man leader, and confirmed by the new six-man leader, and there the SDS was fully consistent and correct in political relations. In that sense, the situation between the SDA and us is not the same. And that's how I explain the SDS decision that said at one point that the SDA is no longer taking part in the Council of Ministers. The SDA did not follow through its work six people on key issues such as the budget. The SDS has never ignored the agreed questions, nor has it suppressed them in any other way, freed itself from responsibility for them, and it is serious... Therefore, it is obvious that the reason for the SDS to be expelled from this council of ministers, which is therefore not a coalition, but a coalition, does not lie in our relationship with the six, nor according to the work of the Council of Ministers. It concerns something completely different, completely new circumstances that occurred after the local elections. 7 Local elections have brought one reality. I think the mistake was to look for the culprit in the SDS, which was a success in those elections. It would be better if the culprit and the responsible were sought out in the ranks of those political parties that have failed. But, well, it's all a matter of our political culture. I fully understand that and I have no intention of giving a sermon on how to behave and what political decisions to make. It is important that they are legal, constitutional, legal and legitimate. The known offer of the coalition, which the SDS could not accept, followed, as it did not promise to its voters in 2010. From the point of view of political comformism, it was probably best to say – we are declaring a large coalition in the RS, we are going together to the elections. Maybe that's what some benefit is wearing, it's all entirely on the table, when it comes to analysis, but it's quite clear that it wouldn't be in line with the will of the SDS voters. Not to mention how small party representatives would be able to manage the whole together and to marginalise their role. We came to this position the way the new majority wanted. We recognise the majority above all in co-operation between the two political parties that in the SDP Federation and the RS SNSD have so far been the greatest responsibility for the exercise of power, as they won the 2010 elections the highest confidence. And we do not dispute the legality or legitimacy of that authority. But what we don't seem to be good at is the motives that created this very coalition. We do not believe that it has been created for new programming solutions, nor for the desire to do something revolutionary in one way or another. If we're surprised we'll admit we made a mistake. We think it is an alliance of two political parties that assessed their chances in the next elections and estimated it is good for them first and foremost to end the fight in the BiH common bodies and to create some new alliance. If they're going to do that, if they're going to hire more people, if it's going to bring us all closer to European integration, to do something, the SDS has no problem with that. But the experience we have in recent years doesn't give us much right to hope. There were ugly statements. It was an ugly statement by Mr. Radončić that if he chooses between SDS and SNSD he chooses less evil, because SDS had his own army, had his own police, shelled, dealt with snipers and other things. We don't care if that statement came from Mr. Radončić, it hurts us that she's being silenced by those who represent the RS. Because this army of the RS is responsible, at least that's where we all agree, because the RS is defended. Both the SDS and the war and after the war, at least as politically powerful and at least as far as the concept of creating the RS related to it, never belonged to the RS Army. He always said it was the RS Army, it was an army of Serb people. Some statements have also come from, as derivatives of some political relations. There was little fear here that the SDA and the SDS would make some kind of coalition, so they would prevent these decisions that are being made today. We understand, there are big eyes in fear. However, it showed how loose this alliance is that it is being promoted again and how many barriers there are that objectively this alliance cannot skip, no matter how much trust it has in the 2010 elections, and what it admits will be long ago. You will see at the following points, which are related to the laws proposed by the Council of Ministers by the urgent procedure, that they will not be given the opportunity to be voted today, at least according to the will of the Serbian People's Club of Delegates, which Mr Genjac told us at the College of the House of Peoples, so that the question of what is all this done and why is all this possible? Is the position of the RS better now? My personal opinion, the opinion of the SDS, is that it isn't. Because she now has a rather disconcerting situation when it comes to the number of votes. We would also be working as representatives of the SDS on some issues as if nothing had happened, but we have six eyes to open to recognize whether anyone would get through the story of the interests of the RS and the Federation of BiH, something which is actually only the interests of two parties. In that sense, you probably already know, there are 8 new initiatives signed by the RS government and the Federation of BiH government regarding the Middle Drina. It's some practice that we're going to have to consider, for one reason or another, and we're going to have to pay more attention than we've ever had to. And that's why the public will probably be confused at some point when someone votes one way or the other. But well, what Bog gives us. You'll let me say something personal in the end. So, not on behalf of the SDS, because it never pleads to regulate other parties' relations, nor to deal with them. But here, let it be my message, I'm once known for those words that people first half a year question what I said, and then they say, how did you know? If the SDP together with the SNSD thought that some shifts would fix their own ratings and the situation in which their political parties are located, I think they should have come from their political leaders, with those shifts. Surely, in that case, they would have had a better chance of regaining confidence in the 2014 elections. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it has been my pleasure, once again, to work with you and I am extremely proud to be one of the people who, in some visual sense, in some picture that will have some kind of frame, is the golden age of Serbian politics in the common bodies of BiH, a time when no one, who was a rival or enemy or opponent of the RS, has managed to get through anything to its harm. Let it not offend other peoples, let it not offend another entity, for none of us has hurt the interests of other peoples and other entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3380	Thank you, colleague Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3381	Unless there are more reports to proceed to the plea. We're starting a vote. Thank you. Out of the 13 delegates present in the first round, 8 delegates voted against, two delegates were detained, 3 delegates were detained. From the Federation – 5 voted for, 3 were abstentions. From RS – 3 were for, 2 were against. Given that there is both the general and the entity majority, I find the adoption of the Serbian People's Club's Proposal for a Delegate Club to resolve the previous presidency of the People's House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Ognjen Tadić. Thank you, and I'm giving you 10 minutes off for technical reasons. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3382	I'd like to go with our session. In accordance with the agenda we are on the second item of the agenda, 9 Ad. 2. Proposal for a decision to elect the chairman of the National Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina The Club of Representatives of the Serbian Peoples in the House of Peoples sent the College of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH today on 05.11.2013, the Proposal for a decision to elect the chairman of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and to propose to Staš Košarac. I give the word to the applicants. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3387	Thank you. Dear presence. Let me, above all, congratulate my colleague Košarac on the election he has just made and wish successful work in the interests of BiH and all its citizens. In a recent brief analysis, counterpart Tadić rightly noted that the reasons for the majority's divorce from the SDA were programming. I'm glad he noticed that difference between the SDS and the SDA, because there really are reasons for the separation of programming nature. These reasons are quite large, but since we have split up with the parliamentary majority and since we are not part of the current parliamentary majority, we have no reason to participate in divorce litigation within that parliamentary majority and in all the discussions held throughout BiH in various objects. But what we have a duty to do is to warn the law, we know that there are so many differences between us that it may not look back on our warning, but we still owe it. So, according to the Council of Ministers Act, which we have just adopted, so the Parliamentary Assembly, the replacement of ministers or deputy ministers or ministers and deputy ministers may happen in accordance with Article 15. The law exclusively in a way that the chairman of the Council of Ministers initiates a procedure for the replacement of ministers and deputy ministers. For the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the initiative can be launched by the Presidency, which is also logical because the Presidency nominates it, and for ministers and vice-presidents of the Council of Ministers, which is also logical because the chairman nominates ministers. We did not receive such a proposal signed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I think it would be good if it were done, actually I think it would be mandatory to do that, because it's a legal obligation and a legal assumption. We warn that since no legal assumptions have been met, we will treat this point as if it were not on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3388	Thank you, Genjac. There are no other applications for the hearing, and I don't see any interest in the application, so we conclude, forgive me, colleague Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3389	Well, it wouldn't make sense to miss two things. Well, the first thing that I'm going to say is that the representatives of the SDS were working on the Council of Ministers, and the second thing is to clarify that dilemma why neither the HDZ nor any other political relations mattered in this first part of today's agenda. And I think this point is the right time to absorb it, of course with the intention of underlining some lines without causing any controversy and discussion. 11 First of all, I think this is a unique case, so as far as I know politics, and since I've been doing it since I was nineties, from my early, early, early steps, in 23 years, so no one has ever replaced anyone and apologized to them. So, starting from the Chairman's Council of Ministers, who is currently not here, to a fellow member from the Council of Ministers, to MPs and clubs in the House of Representatives, who have been standing up with the list, it is less likely that, with the exception of those who have been angry, this one and said – Mr. Šarović to you, Mrs. Mitrović, it is all your honor, Mr. Okolić, to you, is not your unhappiness or bad work that causes this shift but it is a matter of political relations. I would not like to pass this session of the House of Peoples without thanking me, and I hope that, at least intimately, I share the position of most people here, the people of the SDS who have shown by their work how it can be done in the interests of Republika Srpska and that no one finds any problem in this. And maybe that's the quality that Mr. Šarović brought along with his associates into the work of the Council of Ministers which was kind of a shock, so surprises. The first thing that comes from the SDS, which by definition is seen in federal Sarajevo as an enemy of BiH, and the second that comes at a time when something like everyone is trying to get out of the way, hide, not to notice that they are in the Council of Ministers, and there is a man with his associates, Mrs. Mitrović and Mr. Okolić, who is doing something. Whether he was wrong, whether he was wrong, it will be the time coming to show. Anyway, he was doing his job. Secondly, we do see that Mr. Šarović, through his political work, has violated the interests of one part of the people in BiH who have opposed his policy and SDS policy, which Mr. Bevanda has never had, at least not that he has said, in connection with foreign trade and economic relations with abroad. Perhaps it was wrong for someone who put some Šarović on some borders, primarily according to the Republic of Croatia after it joined the EU. But if you ask any man today who cares about starting and producing something both in the RS and the Federation of BiH, he will say that Mr. Šarović's decisions were correct. Support for this initiative by HDZ is therefore understood as being placed in a position to have a problem with such a way of working Mr Šarović. I did not see it from what Mr. Bevanda said and as he spoke about Mr. Bevanda's work, on the contrary he praised Mr. Bevanda's work, this Šarović, spoke of Mr. Šarović as perhaps his best minister, etc., etc. But apparently something in some places has broken and started this initiative over Mr. Šarović's shift. In this regard, I warn you that whoever predstavnički House of Representatives chooses to be foreign trade minister tomorrow, a deputy for refugees and human rights, as deputy defence minister, if they change the course that these three men, representatives of the SDS, have established, in the way that this was done earlier, will do harm both to the RS and the Federation of BiH. It was unimaginable two, three, five, ten years ago that Bošnjak Rasim Ljajić of the Serbian and Srbin government, Mirko Šarović of the Council of Ministers of BiH, are building a common economic policy. We welcomed this thanks to the political abilities and skills that Mr. Šarović, as a long-standing experienced politician, former member of the Presidency, President of the Republic, MP, mayor of eastern Sarajevo, has brought into the work of the previous Council of Ministers. Those who oppose it, and very soon we will... the effects of these changes, will be the culprits for the further submission of the market to both the RS and the Federation of BiH to one of the neighbouring countries. Lively and seen, it is our assumption that this will, unfortunately, come to pass. I call on you, therefore, to be independent of this kind of political attitude towards the work of Mr. Šarović, Mrs. Mitrović and Mr. Okolić, to have that critical relationship that 12 can defend itself with facts rather than with arguments ad hoc against personality. Because I'm sure each of us can find a flaw in one of these people who's here, sitting on the Council of Ministers, but I'm sure that as serious people, we've overcome that kind of political frustration and moved to a higher level of political culture where we're worth our work and we're not giving some less important assessment of how much we like who we like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3390	Thank you, fellow Tadić. The report's gone. That concludes the debate on this agenda point. We are voting on a proposal for a decision to replace foreign trade and economic relations ministers, Deputy Defence Minister and Deputy Human Rights Minister for Human Rights and Refugees BiH. Please initiate voting procedure. In accordance with the vote held, we can confirm from the 13 present – for it was 8, against 2. abstention 3. From the Federation of BiH – for 5, abstention 3. From RS – 3 for, 2 against. We have a general majority, we have an entity majority and I agree that the decision to replace the foreign trade and economic relations ministers, BiH Deputy Defence Minister and Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees BiH has been adopted. Moving to the next item of the agenda, item four, ad. 4. The adoption of the 32nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate about the record. No one's answering for a word. We're closing the debate. We're voting on the 32nd session of our House. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 13 – for there were 12, against no one, abstentioned 1. Federation of BiH – 8 for, all for. RS – 4 for, 1 abstention. We have a general, we have an entity majority. I agree that the 32nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. We're moving to the point of five today's agenda, Ad. 5. Answers to envoys' questions and new envoys' questions
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3393	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. I first want to say a few sentences about what we just did, very briefly, of course. I want to congratulate my colleagues, Tadić, on what has been done so far, although he is not here, and on today's Buddhist peaceful behavior. He was a person who was very, very imaginative, very honest, very honest, and that's what you should say, of course. Unfortunately, the schedule of forces is such as to ask whether this would be so in the future because such capacity does not come from the RS that would guarantee the normal work of the Council of Ministers and normal work both at home and at home. And I want my colleague Košarac Kosharts to be, here's exactly what I said earlier about Mr. Tadić. I have submitted an initiative concerning the establishment of an investigative commission that would establish possible illegalities in the Directorate for indirect taxation. I've been thinking about whether it's possible to say that I'm erasing it now, and I'm responsible for saying that there's organized crime there, so it's also showing these last shifts that took place in customs stations. And I'm sorry that this initiative wasn't accepted, and I'm glad it was accepted there in the House of Representatives, and I'm looking forward to it, and I hope that even if those who work there at the Department of Direct Taxation will get some kind of fear that they don't do it anymore. That was my point of initiative to prepaphrase the people who work there. We wouldn't need the IMF if, only at the IRS, did their job fair and square. That's where I listed the examples of irregularities, I don't want to repeat them anymore, I haven't given up on this initiative, I'll see how it goes there in the House of Representatives, so maybe I'll rebuild it again. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3394	Thank you, fellow Bradarić. I'm a colleague of Simić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3395	Thank you. After a long time I got the answer to two questions, the answer on how to mark the beginning of the great war contains all the necessary elements that this answer is complete. However, I must say that I am a little caught up in the fact that this great event marks only the City of Sarajevo and even the European Commission, and that there are no institutions that should give meaning to this war and avoid even greater elements of the division of society around these partial celebrations. I wouldn't be surprised if this celebration was organized in the village of Donja Herdova so we could listen to what was said worse. 14 The far more important question I have asked, and I have been waiting for the answer, is the question of the number of processes and the number of convicted persons for war crimes from 1992 to today, since we are all constantly asking questions about the importance of these crimes, the importance of processing crime, the importance of establishing reconciliation, at the end of justice for victims. And I got the data that's a little bit devastating when we're talking about all over BiH. We have a position that's since '92. So far, only completed 210 cases where war crimes were charged. Data were presented at the level of BiH, the Federation of BiH, RS and the Brcko District of BiH. Indeed little and indeed if we are still attached to the D.A.'s report, which is here on the agenda today, where the prosecution points to a key problem in the processing of these crimes, that witnesses are getting older and that time is doing their part, I fear that biology does not put many of those who bloodied their hands in this war unpunished and that we lose one of the most important battles that always occur in every country after the injuries that occurred in BiH in '91–'95. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3396	Thank you, fellow Simić. There are no other comments on the answers received to the envoy's questions. I now leave the possibility of asking new envoys questions. Here you go. A kolegica of the Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3397	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, the chairman, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate Mr. Košarac on his appointment, thank Mr. Tadić for performing his duties properly so far. My question is addressed to the Directorate for European Integration and I ask for clarification on the EU's coordination mechanism in terms of BiH affairs. Namely, one of the two key issues for launching the EU process in BiH is the question of defining the EU business coordination mechanism in BiH. Regarding this question, please answer the question: 1. What exactly does this question mean – who is coordinating, who, what is the subject of coordination, how often is communication in matters of coordination of a technical question? 2. As this issue has been resolved in other countries, how many levels of decision have been established in other countries? 3. What about the proposal for a coordination mechanism created as a fruit of the work of the Technical Assistance Project to the Directorate for European Integration? 4. Who at expert level was involved in the creation of a proposal presented by the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers for European Integration as a proposal from the Council of Ministers which did not receive the support of the entire Council of Ministers? 5. Can you explain to us what coordination would look like on an example – who has to consult, what time period, what when someone's gone, what if someone's against, who's the mediator? Six. And for me, the most important question, I ask that within 10 days, the Directorate for European Integration provide me with a proposal for coordination mechanisms that has been created as a fruit of the work of the Technical Assistance Project to the Directorate for European Integration. 15 In an explanation, I would like to ask again the question – How is it possible to turn the technical issue into a political issue and become a brake towards the EU and towards our integration into the EU? According to my knowledge, the EU delegations in Sarajevo have reservations according to a proposal presented by the Council of Ministers as a proposal from the expert group, I have heard a sentence many times -- BiH should speak with one voice. Who is speaking according to the proposal for a coordination mechanism proposed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers? Please an urgent written response from the Directorate for European Integration to the questions raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3398	Thank you to my colleague, Kapetanović. My kolegica Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3399	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am taking the opportunity to congratulate my fellow strašiti on the election, as well as all those on holding in the context of the adoption of earlier points that have thus shown and protected the integrity of the highest legislative body, in this case the House of Peoples, as well as the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And my question is an emissary one: Unfortunately, BiH is known for violating fundamental human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the European Convention on Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms, which the European Court of Human Rights has witnessed and, among other things, the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in the case of Maktouf and Damjanović. In the context of this verdict, there is a question in the public what is the matter with others whose rights have also been violated by retroactive application of the law, which have neither addressed the BiH Constitutional Court nor the European Court of Human Rights so far. I therefore refer my question to the BiH Ministry of Justice and that reads – What do you intend to do about changes in BiH's criminal law in order to ensure equal legal protection and others whose right is also violated by the application of the 2003 Penal Code of BiH? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3400	Thank you, colleague Krišto. I don't see any more applications, no more interests in new envoy issues, and that's how we're going to conclude this agenda point. We're going to the six-day agenda, Ad. Six. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples At the 30th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, held on 15th of July, a request from the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements 16 of the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH's Authorities by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Following the adoption of a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of BiH following a hasty procedure by the envoys at the Club of the Bush People of fellow Genjac, counterpart Tihić and fellow Members of the Kapetanović, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, i.e. Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have declared the above-mentioned Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. Following the declaration of the proposed law harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people, the debate on the bill was suspended and the vote on whether it was harmful to the Bosniak people's vital interest was joined. Since most of the envoys in the Croatian and Serbian people's clubs have pleaded against the fact that this proposal is harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people, a Joint Commission was set up to address the issue of vital interest which consists of three envoys, one of whom was elected by Croatian, Bosniak and Serb envoys to resolve the issue. The joint committee on the resolution of the issue of vital interest found that no solution was reached and found that, in accordance with the provisions of the BiH Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, the whole case should be referred to the Constitutional Court for further proceedings, on the basis of that chairman of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, submitted a request to the Constitutional Court of BiH on 18 July this year for the examination of the regularity of the procedure, i.e. the establishment of the existence or absence of a constitutional basis for the declaration of the draft law on the amendment and addition of the Law of conflict of interest in BiH institutions harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people, further consideration and action. In the 18th 10th year, the Constitutional Court delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly a Decision of 27 September this year, which found that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of BiH, in a work in which the establishment and composition of a committee to decide on a conflict of interest, was not damaged by the vital interest of the Bosniak people in BiH and that the procedure for adopting the proposed law should be implemented in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article IV 3d) of the Constitution of BiH. At the 48th session, held on 23.05 this year, the House of Representatives accepted a request to discuss the amendment law and amendments to the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions by a hasty procedure and passed the Law. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Is anyone answering for a word? A fellow Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3402	I thank the chairman. We, therefore, received a Constitutional Court Decision which, of course, should be implemented and, among other things, the Constitutional Court stated in its decision that the proposed Law does not contain provisions that would put in a more favourable or unfavourable position any of the constituent peoples. And I absolutely agree with that, if there is any need to stress it, but what I think and what I think should be added is the fact that the proposal puts this law equally in an unfavourable position for all citizens and all peoples. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court does not decide on such issues, probably because it was not expected to create an appropriate political consensus on something equally harmful to everyone. I still believe, therefore, that the proposal for this law prevents the institution of 17 from preventing conflicts of interest through a committee politically composed, subject to political influences, and that through this commission and such a decision on conflict of interest standards in BiH's conflict of interest are being destroyed. We will likely soon see what individuals are the reason for this Law’s proposal, whether only those who have so far been in the proper situations of conflict or those who will be found. Since the speed of publication of this Law in the "Official Messenger" we will also be able to conclude much. But the bitter fact remains that the adoption of this law will reverse this instrument in BiH. We have a duty to warn you. Of course, those who are in favour of such a law will assume and responsibility, and at least one of the technical questions to be answered about this Bill – how the Central Election Commission will exercise the jurisdiction to determine conflicts of interest for the Federation and the Brcko District, which remains when all its employees are in charge of conflict of interest because of this Act, and the Commission is left without employees in charge of the area. There's no answer in this... there's no answer to this question among other things. But far more difficult than that are the consequences that this way of the Commission, which is politically composed, which will, in which it will be impossible to make decisions, will decide on a question no one else in Bosnia will decide. So we warn and, of course, all those who are in favor of this Law have the opportunity to take responsibility and explain why they are in favor of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3403	Thank you, Genjac. A fellow Bradarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3404	I'll just have one review of the constitutional court's behaviour, although it's not recommended to anyone, anyone who does it gets pretty screwed up, but I have no intention of, of course, getting involved in the work of the Constitutional Court, but I do, I wish they were there, but they don't seem to be, so let me ask you a question. This proposal for a law was forwarded to the Constitutional Court, there is also a date of 18.07., the Constitutional Court discussed the appeal and decided that it had not damaged the vital national interest of the Bošnjak, on 27.09., so more than two months, and this, and this decision was forwarded on 18.10. this year. So, this decision was in the hands of the Constitutional Court for almost or exactly 3 months, although under the Constitution of the BiH Member, I have made sure that I remember, Article 4(4) and Article 24 of the Constitutional Court, paragraph 4, they had to work on an urgent procedure, i.e. to act urgently. They can interpret this as not being addressed, etc., because this is the emergency procedure, I know and the way the Constitutional Court works, etc., but I would really like an answer to that question. This question really required a more urgent procedure than an emergency procedure. As early as July 2011, both homes adopted recommendations on this issue, and they unanimously decided to go to the amendments to this Law, so they all voted. And with this, an interresor working group has been formed for several months, and we all know that, with the participation of both the NGOs and the academic community, and they have come to a variant, a final solution that is about, what looks like this one that we are adopting today, we are considering, etc. So I repeat again, this law was voted by the Council of Ministers when it was discussed at the 2010 session, but almost supported by all these parliamentary parties. This has not been a state law so far because four laws dealing with this issue have been in force in BiH, especially since 2008, which have not uniquely regulated this matter, so 18 that these different solutions appointed officials, elected officials and advisers have brought to an unequal position depending on the level of their function. Even so-called officials and advisers have not been in conflict of interest, because they remained in their posts and after the decision had been taken and were then given at will to the authority that appointed him to resolve it. We have a lot of examples where, and it would be interesting to look at the structure of those who are, against whom measures or sanctions are imposed when it comes to conflict of interest, interest, but of course I don't want to draw this question, in some other way, in some other place it can be discussed. When it comes to sanctions on the four-year ban on running and withdrawing the mandate of the Venice Commission, here is the number of opinions 560, 2009 since 04.06.2010, the Constitutional Court of BiH said that these sanctions are not contrary to the BiH Constitution. And I still think that we should respect European standards, we don't need new problems when it comes to judgments in Strasbourg, etc. And finally, it would be interesting to really see what it's like in the countries of the region. In Slovenia and Serbia, this area is treated by the Agency for Prevention and Corruption, there is a Commission to prevent conflicts of interest, therefore it does not do so there, and sanctions are a warning or a call to the authority that appointed them to initiate the resolution procedure. In Montenegro, it is done by the Agency for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, in Croatia, here is the country that has recently entered the EU, you have a parliamentary body, a parliamentary body numbering seven members, of which four members from Parliament, from the Parliament, and three from the Academian community, with the commission headed by the opposition. So in either of these countries, the CEC doesn't do it, and in the end they all respect European standards, they all respect the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and the penalties that have been imposed here in our case are dragonous. In Croatia you also have sanctions for warning or public publication of persons who are in conflict of interest and at his expense, at his expense, or let's say the call to resign or call the authority to resolve it both here and with us, therefore, there is. So, we've overwritten EU standards, and the fines here are dragons of net wages, and you're being denied 30% or 50% in the course of the year and more, but I don't think they are, or I mean they're in the most corrupt countries, so the most corrupt countries, when it comes to corruption and the greatest penalties. So they are not a way to prevent this phenomenon when it comes to preventing conflicts of interest. So, we should stick to European standards, we should stick to the recommendations of the European Commission, and I'm sure we'll have one in the end, and we won't get into the work of the Commission, she has to work by the rules of fairness, expertise, etc., and it's not the commission represented by the opposition, in our case it would be 9 members, 6 of both parliaments by 3, of which 2 have to be of opposition and 3 are independent. We can't tell about the director, although we know he belongs and we know who he belongs to, that, yes, which political party he belongs to and puts him into political parties when he comes to that place because he's not a party man.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3405	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. There are no more reports in the debate. We're closing the debate. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of BiH, following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122 of our Rules of Procedure. 19 Please initiate voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3406	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3407	I'm sorry, Genjac. I'm quick. You slow down a little bit, and there he is. A fellow Genjac, correcting the wrong quote or whatever.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3408	I'm sorry maybe it's... slow, uh, I'm just very brief on a few details to answer. I do not doubt the good intentions of fellow Bradarić, very often the path to hell is paved by good intentions. The situation with the countries of the region and the situation in the countries of the region should therefore be analysed as a whole or by no means. The latest European Commission report says BiH has made no progress in fighting corruption, which remains widespread in the public sector and in public-private partnership. It's the 2012 report. In the countries we've heard and their nature and character of the commissions they're deciding is not this finding. We have a finding like this with drastically threatened punishments. It is not all the problem of the ban on running, of abolishing passive voting rights, it really needs to be removed, but that does not mean that by respecting one recommendation that we all agree on, is the recommendation of the Venice Commission to destroy the conflict of interest institute. So, it would be good to make this better, as our people say, but that Bog, yes, the results of my deep conviction, will be quite the opposite, and time will show.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3409	Thank you, Genjac. One more time, so I don't see any complaints. And now I'm asking you to initiate the voting procedure. From the 12 present – for 9, v. 2, abstention 1. Federation 6 in, 2 against. RS 3 for, 1 abstention. We have a general, we have an entity majority, I agree with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions has been adopted. We're moving to the next point, item seven of today's agenda, Ad. Seven. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, following a hasty procedure pursuant to Article 122 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples At the 31st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, held on 23/07, a request from the Council of Ministers for the examination of this draft law following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122 of our Rules of Procedure. Following the debate on the above-mentioned agenda, the representatives of the Bosniak People's Club, fellow Genjac, counterpart Tihić and counterpart Kapetanović, in accordance with Article 201. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House have declared a decision to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement of BiH following a hasty procedure, harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. Following the announcement of a decision to consider the draft law after a hasty procedure, the Bosnian people's vital interest was suspended and the vote on whether the proposal for a law after a hasty procedure is harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. Since most of the envoys in Croatian and Serbian national clubs have pleaded against the decision to consider the amendment law and the additions of the Law on Public Procurement by a haste procedure harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people, a Joint Commission was established to resolve the issues of vital interest of three envoys, one of whom was elected by Croatian, Bosniak and Serb envoys to resolve the issue. The joint committee for resolving this issue found that it had not reached a solution and found that, in accordance with the provisions of the BiH Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of our House, the whole case should be referred to the BiH Constitutional Court for further proceedings. On the basis of the above-mentioned chairman of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, on 25th of July of this year, the Constitutional Court of BiH was asked to examine the regularity of the procedure, i.e. to establish the existence or absence of a constitutional basis for the declaration of a decision on the examination of the draft law under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House, harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. On 21 October this year, the Constitutional Court delivered a decision to the Parliamentary Assembly on 27 September this year, which found that a statement by the Representatives of the Bosniak People's House of the National Assembly on the destruction of the vital interest of the Bosniak people of the proposal for a decision to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement under the Rapid Procedure does not meet the conditions of the procedural regularity of Article IV 3.f) of the Constitution of BiH, because the proposed decision for which the Constitutional Court would be responsible within the meaning of Article IV 3.f) of the Constitution of BiH. At the follow-up of the 49th session, held on 08th of July, the House of Representatives accepted a request to discuss the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Public Procurement of BiH by a hasty procedure and passed the law. We're opening a debate on this agenda point. A fellow Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3411	I thank the chairman. You have referred to the course of this Law and its adoption and the appeal of the Constitutional Court, namely the statement and decision of the Constitutional Court. I must, in order to correct my colleagues, mention and remind myself that part of my colleagues felt that this question was indeed a matter of procedural nature and that the Constitutional Court should not decide on it. Some had a dilemma whether or not it was, in any case we got a decision from the Constitutional Court that said that on matters of procedural nature, issues of procedure, he was not competent to decide. And I think it will be our practice where we will have to respect these decisions of the Constitutional Court. So after that, we're here before we make a decision, are we gonna go by emergency procedure, and after that we're probably making a statement about the law. 21 I would ask before, since the debate is likely to come together in some way, before we go to the vote I would ask the representative of the legislator to clarify two things. In this regard, Article 2 of this Act adds new members to the establishment of the Office for the Review of Appeals based in Banja Luka and Mostar. The new Article 49a) of point 6 states that the jurisdiction of these exposures is determined by the seat of the contractual authority. So I'd ask you to explain to me what that means, whether it's a geographical distance from the seat. So let's say that Trebinje will have the jurisdiction of an outpost in Mostar or some other outpost, is that geographical distance, territorial, some logic, is there a number of places where territorial jurisdiction is or is it something else? Because all there is here is that the jurisdiction of the facility is determined by the seat of the contract authority. What are those seats for this outpost, which are the seats for that outpost, I don't know? The second thing, in point 3 of that same article, is that the appointment of members of the Board of Appeals in the branches of Banja Luka and Mostar is done in the same way as the appointments of members of the Office for the Review of Appeals at headquarters. It is clear that here is the procedure of who appoints, which proposal, etc. However, the Office for the Review of Appeals in the Law has also been determined in the ethnic composition, which makes it, how many representatives of which people. I would also ask that the Proposer explain to me whether this ethnic composition of the Office for the Review of Appeals also refers to these statements, which would be imperative, but is not stated in the Law, or whether there will be a misunderstanding about this and the forward mentioned if the Law is adopted with these inaccuracies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3412	Thank you, Genjac. I don't see any more applicants for the debate, and I don't see the possibility that today the Council of Ministers will answer this question, unless any of the present representatives of the Council of Ministers feel it is necessary. Okay. I have a feeling we're going to stay and cancel to answer this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3413	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3414	Here's what we've all heard from our fellow Genjac. If one of his colleagues wants to oppose his position and opinion, state his opinion, but I don't see his interest again, which means there's only one thing left for me to find out that there are no more complaints and I'm closing the debate on this point. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please. _________(?) 22 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3417	I would really like to ask if there is any way to make it possible for the legislator to respond. If the Council of Ministers is so busy that they cannot give an answer, if any of their colleagues may have an answer, which is clear, to give us an answer, if possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3418	Thank you, fellow Genjac. I don't see a request for a hearing, and I don't see any potential interest in the application. As far as the Council of Ministers is concerned, we have remained in the same relationship with this bill now. And again, with regrets from my fellow Genjac, all that remains is to say that I am now calling on professional services to vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please initiate voting procedure. Attendance 11 - for 8, v. 2, abstention 1. Federation of BiH 5 for, 2 against, RS 3 for, 1 abstention. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH was adopted. Now we move to the point of today's eighth agenda, Ad. 8. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendment and Completion of the Single Origin Act by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples The 31st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, held on 23.07., discussed the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Single Parent Number by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of our House since 17.07.2013. Following the debate on the above-mentioned agenda, the representatives of the Bosniak People's Club, fellow Genjac, counterpart Tihić and counterpart Kapetanović, in accordance with Article 161. 23 The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly have declared a decision to consider the draft law amending and supplementing this law, harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. Following the announcement of a decision to consider the draft law after a hasty procedure harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people, the debate on the bill was suspended and the vote on whether the proposal for a law after a hasty procedure is harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. Since most of the envoys in Croatian and Serbian national clubs have pleaded against the fact that this decision to consider the amendment law and the addition of the Single Parent Code after a hasty procedure is harmful to the vital national interest of the Bosniak people, a Joint Commission was set up to resolve the issues of vital interest of three envoys, one of whom was selected by Croatian, Bosniak and Serb envoys to resolve the issue. The Joint Commission for the solution to the issue of vital interest found that it had failed to reach a solution and found that, in accordance with the provisions of the BiH Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of our House, the whole case should be referred to the BiH Constitutional Court for further proceedings. On the basis of the above-mentioned chairman of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, he submitted a request to the Constitutional Court of BiH on 25th of this year for the examination of the regularity of the procedure, i.e. the establishment or the absence of a constitutional basis for the declaration of a decision on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Single Parent Code by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of our House, harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. On 21 October this year, the BiH Constitutional Court delivered a decision to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on 27 September, which found that the statements of the Bosnian People's Representatives' Club to the People's House on Disstruction in the vital interest of the Bosniak people, a proposal for a decision to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Single Parent's Number by Hurry Procedure, did not meet the conditions of procedural regularity laid down in Article IV 3.f) of the BiH Constitution because the proposed decision does not constitute a decision to which the Constitutional Court would be responsible within the meaning of Article IV 3.f) of the BiH Constitution. At the 50th session, held on 18th of this year, the House of Representatives accepted a request to consider the amendment and supplementation of the Law on a unique birth number by a hasty procedure and passed the law. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. I don't see anyone reported for the hearing, and I don't see any interest in the application, so we're going to conclude a debate on this agenda point. We are voting on the procedure, so whether or not we are going to consider the draft law by a hasty procedure in accordance with Article 122 of our Rules of Procedure. Please initiate voting procedure. Attending 12 – for 10, against 2. The Federation of BiH – 6 for, 2 against, RS – 4 for. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I find the request to consider the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Single Parent Number by a hasty procedure has been adopted. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Is anyone answering for a word? I have no one reported for the hearing again, and I still don't see by colleagues of interest in the application, so we're going to conclude a debate on this agenda point. 24 And I ask you from the Technical Service to ensure that we vote on the Amendment and Completion Act, in accordance with Article 122. The rules of procedure of our home. Thank you very much. Attending 12 – for 10, against 2. The Federation of BiH 6 for, 2 against, RS 4 for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I am establishing the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Single Parent Number Act has been adopted. We're going to the ninth point of today's agenda, Ad. Nine. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3422	I thank the chairman. In accordance with Article 161(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, We declare the Rules of Procedure of the People's House the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens of BiH harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. Since this emergency law, there's about as much text as this statement of destruction by vital interest, so 6 pages, I'm not going to read the entire text to save time. Since a statement on the destruction, signed by Mr Tihić and Mrs Kapetanović and I, will be accompanied by the minutes. I'll give you some details from the explanation very briefly, more for the stenogram. So, among other things, we think that the adoption of the bill would make an amendment to Articles 8 and 8a of the Law and add a new Article 8c) in a way that all these members would be in complete contrast with the whole 27 of Chapter IV of the Law. Contrary to the provisions of this Chapter, a commitment has been made to all citizens who have their residence declared, without exception, to returnees and returnees who have their registered residence and to those who are yet to report it, to obtain evidence of the existence of a legal basis for the registration of their residence at a specific address. All returnees who have reported their residence in accordance with the provisions of Chapter IV would be subject to verification of the fulfilment of conditions which were not required to meet the application or upon application of the residence. Such mutual opposition by members of the same law, which would result from the adoption of the bill, would produce inadmissible legal uncertainty and exposure of returnees to arbitration and decision-making of police officers to address issues related to residence which are of paramount importance to returnees. This practice could result in the cancellation of residences to returnees and refugees from BiH, and a practice already present, i.e. the lack of clarity of legal provisions, could be used as an excuse to annul their residence. The final consequences against the legal annulment of the returnees and refugees are extremely serious. Registration of residence at a pre-war address, as is known, is a condition for achieving assistance for rebuilding houses. The cancellation of that residence loses the condition for that assistance. The residence is also the basis for the exercise of social rights, electoral rights, etc. It is obvious, therefore, that the adoption of that bill would result in difficulties or in the fact that the rights of displaced refugees who intend to return and those who have returned to their hearths were guaranteed. All available official and relevant data suggest that the largest number of exiled and displaced persons of Bosniak ethnicity and the largest number of returnees are, of course, Bosniaks. Given that the adoption of the bill would produce very harmful consequences for the refugees and displaced who have returned and who intend to return to their hearths, it is clear that the bill is harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. We apply, therefore, a statement signed by three delegates, as requested by the Rules of Procedure, and we ask that further action be done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3423	Thank you, Genjac. A fellow Bradrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3424	I will say again that this is not a new law, so he is in parliamentary procedure for several years, and I will repeat what I said last time that for this law, which was in the Council of Ministers, they voted and then ministers from the order of the SDA and if credibility changes, then it must be really justified to say what is... This is state law, this is state law, managed by the Agency for Identification Documents. The central data exchange unit today in a modern way, so you can report the residence and residence and log out without leaving the house. So, completely in a modern way, electronically. 28 This law has been drawn up according to the highest European standards and principles, and we have heard it many times, supported and strongly supported the international community, i.e. the OHR and the EU delegation here in BiH. From a legal point of view, this law introduces much more order in the area of defining the conditions and ways of obtaining residence and residence, not touching the rights of returnees. So the rights of the returnees remain as they had before 1992. Members from 16th to 28th are intact. And here you really don't need to bring this law into the context of that story about the care of the returnees, etc. So, I repeat, the rights of the returnees are intact and intact here, and they were not the subject of these amendments and additions to this law. This law introduces control, and it is necessary, but suspicious acquisitions of residence. We've had such examples in BiH all you want. Well, the Bureau's address was reported by thieves, criminals who robbed the CARGO Center, not to mention the following examples. But as BiH lags behind European integration, I am not sure it will be a haven for war criminals, criminals, persons on Interpol's quest, etc. So it becomes an oasis for such persons and it's okay to control them and it doesn't need a lot of paper, it needs a classic paper of the CIPS residence, not to list any further and a statement of course of the one you're coming to. Well, that's very important from a private security point of view. So I can have my address or your address reported to a criminal, so that they can find out where that criminal was falsely reported so he can come in, chasing him with damages and problems to me, etc. So this, I repeat, is the state law, does not touch the rights of the returnee, and in that context it should be spoken of. And I'll just have one statement, here's a reference to Mr. Reis Kavazović, who recently when he was on a television show told me – they told me if the returnee wasn't in the place of residence for three months and longer he lost his right to stay, etc. So, it's about manipulations that don't use returnees, etc., and whoever's uncontrollably in control of the returnees could have done it by now, but under this law, no, because for such people, God's punishments are for officials, civil servants, which are up to 1,000 marks. And once again, the state law doesn't touch the rights of the returnee, and that's what everyone needs to know.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3425	Thank you very much. We have two or two corrections to the wrong quote. First of all, colleague Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3426	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I note to Mr Bradarić that politics is a very dynamic process. So this alleged that the ministers of the SDA once pleaded for this text of the law is only partly true for the simple reason that we and after, therefore, withdrawing the mandate of ministers in the Council of Ministers in the order of the SDA, we discussed the text of the law in question, so in this composition which is here today, and without the participation of our ministers in the Council of Ministers. It is very important to say and repeat, therefore for the sake of the public and for objectivity, that despite the fact that we had a law which, because of the specific internal structure of BiH, had prescribed a completely liberal initial application and way of checking out of residence and residence, which 29 was exclusively related to the rights and obligations of the citizens of this country and to the obligation of the state authorities to react in cases of abuse, therefore from the situation of full freedom which is in accordance with the Constitution of the declared unlimited freedom of movement for the citizens of BiH, we are now coming into a completely absurd situation that a prescribed freedom, which is prescribed by the Constitution of BiH and as regards freedom of movement of goods and people, capital and all services without restrictions, because of the existence of such internal structure within BiH, is now changing. So, from a completely liberal system of movement, we are now coming into a situation to prescribe a number of conditions that change this regime of free movement of people and goods and we from the free login and check-in system have now entered a complete system of controlled administrative login and check-out of residence and residence. For the sake of the public, I will certainly repeat that, and as the first deputy chairman of the Joint Commission for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, I ask my colleagues and remind my colleagues who have been filled with the mouth of good intentions to return refugees and displaced persons when the text in question has been debated – how it is possible that today they will close their eyes to an existing Article 8 in which it is said that in the procedure of reporting the residence and the address of the citizens will be obliged, proof that they have a valid basis for their stay at the address at which they are registered, and as evidence is sought, under a) evidence of ownership or co-ownership or possession of an apartment, house or other housing facility. I ask my colleagues, who are fully aware of the fact that a large part of the returnees failed to restore their homes, i.e. the property on which they lived, or dwellings -- what about the people who were expelled, who were supposed to be the focus of the interest of all MPs, regardless of which people and what political options they came from, and which houses were destroyed, who had no even more heartburn than these houses? They may own some piece of land, but something like that isn't meant to happen here, in this relevant text of the law. What are we gonna do with these people? If we give up the population that didn't succeed, so they managed to realize building the house, returning the apartment? How can we give up these populations and citizens? And that's what worries me the most and I think this law is very, very harmful, especially for the Bosniak return population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3427	Thank you, colleague Kapetanović. A fellow Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3428	Thank you. I don't know what the point is, and what is the point of saying that sometimes some minister in some Council of Ministers in drawing up a draft voted one way or another and now represent it as an inherited obligation of all future generations and ministers and parliamentarians to act accordingly. So the question is, how long do we go back or into the future? It's not that we don't know, so we don't have all the facts with these councils of ministers, we don't know what kind of plans they were to discuss, or we need to have all the arguments so that this kind of discussion can be talked about. But what I think we need to clarify, it is indisputable, is absolutely undeniable that the existing Law on the residence and residence of BiH citizens is a state, because it can only be a state. We're about to say we don't even have state law. So that's the state, because it can only be state. 30 The second thing, very soon we will agree that improvements to the existing law, the technical nature, are needed. First of all, we need to implement the electronic signature and all the regulations that have been passed on this matter into the law. The second thing, a series of other technical improvements in the very text of the law. And finally, preventing the present abuse of this Institute from reporting, which needs to be arranged in some way, absolutely undeniable. And this law has these quality parts that are just helping to improve it. And we support those parts and we would vote, for such a law and parts would vote. Now we get to what's wrong. It is said that the rights of the returnee and the displaced remain intact. Maybe. But what doesn't it say in the law? For Article 8, it is said, and it is changed: The competent authorities are obliged within 5 years, from the date of entry into force of this law, for each citizen with a registered residence, there is no exception at all, for each citizen with a registered residence to carry out a verification of the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Article, etc., where the conditions are indicated. So, I don't see that returnees, who have registered residences or who intend to apply, are anything other than BiH citizens with their registered residence. I don't see that it's some new category of appearance or personality or, therefore, they are, therefore, also citizens of BiH with registered residence. And here it stands – for every citizen with a registered residence to verify whether he has met the conditions. And he applied in accordance with poglavlje IV and Article 20, which he says – for a returnee returning to a pre-war home to register his residence is only required to prove his identity by some document. If there's no witness to say it's that man and nothing else. So maybe the writer thought this, I don't know, didn't apply to the returnees. I know for a fact that he can't refer to the returnees. And if we can't leave it to free poetic interpretation, why don't we write it down, and that's all we asked, to say here that this doesn't apply to returnees and not to every citizen, but to all citizens except etc. And that's all we asked for, nothing else, because without this, without this intervention, we'll have a voluntary interpretation of police officers, and unfortunately we've already experienced it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3429	Thank you, Genjac. A fellow Bradarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3430	I, of course, have to replicate, I was talking about the credibility of the SDA, and it has to be interpreted by arguments. I didn't hear, so I said the ministers in the order of the SDA, and whoever wants to be able to make sure of the paperwork, voted and supported this law and I love it often, but I'm afraid not to be boring, say to the Maxim "the seat changes views". That you stayed within the Council of Ministers and I am sure, as you do in the halls, as you do in the towers, praised this law, said it was good, that it solves many issues etc. This way, of course, you have to take the second guard. The real returnees are intact, it says here in the law. That's what the administrative control of the residence says. So everywhere in the world you have and she's welcome, but she's not gonna knock on your door and tell you – are you there, etc., administrative control can work and do, and it's good to seem, in many 31 more ways, such as checking, there neither do I know in the home office, checking in Electrodistribution etc. So they are useful, they are necessary and those who do so in an unauthorized way, civil servants and police authorities, without any explanation they will have to answer as they have done so so far. You don't need a bunch of paper. So those of us who worked on our return, we know what could have been considered when it came to the reconstruction of houses. Let me, I need you to trust me, because I was some key face that worked on it. We even worked on statements, two witnesses, two neighbors, or based on those certificates from Elektro-distribution, Communal or I don't know what, so we confessed. Therefore, do not make the situation difficult for the returnees, there may be other ways of taking care of the returnees, not as we will challenge this law and make it difficult for them.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3431	Thank you, fellow Bradarić. My kolegica Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3432	Thank you very much. I will not mention here these corrections of the wrong allegation, then the other, and third, I will only remind all of us to violate the Rules of Procedure, because, on this matter, that is, the Law on residence has been raised the question of vital national interest and I ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. There is no debate here, but we are voting on a violation of vital national interest, and we are delivering this question in accordance with the procedure, and so we are determining ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3433	Thank you, colleague Krišto. And here we are exhausted, but we're not, we're still arguing. A fellow Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3434	I'm just doing business. So we had the Constitutional Court's decision on the procedural question whether on an urgent matter to consider and we ended it. We've adopted a law on emergency procedures. We are now ahead of the vote on the law in the debate on the law. That's why we needed to clarify certain questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3435	Thank you very much. We've made everything clear and everything fits into further work dynamics. No more debates. Since fellow Genjac, on behalf of the Bosniak Club, has submitted the initiative that we have here and I hope you have all received it, we can now deal with the Constitution, Article IV 3e), which defines this issue, we can also define our Rules of Procedure, Chapter 10 of Section a), Article 161, and we will interpret it in different ways, but in any case we have a signed document on behalf of fellow Tihić, fellow Kapetanović and fellow Genjac on the launch of this procedure. 32 Although we are not all present here, I think we should continue to carry out this procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of our House. And on the other hand, I suggest that we now plead to the clubs, or the peoples, on this initiative. Since we will manually plead, please, we will start from one to the other and third people, to prepare these voting papers for the vote. So first, I will propose, given that, in accordance with Article 161(2), the House's proposed decision requires the consent of most Hrvat and most Srbin in this case, who are present at the sessions to plead on this initiative. So let's first, when it comes to the Serbian people, do we support this initiative as such? Of the 5 present – 5 against. We don't need another kind of vote to call. As far as the Croatian envoys are concerned? 5 present – 5 against. As far as the Bosniaks are concerned, here's that in the name of the Bosniaks, most of them have declared themselves, so I don't think there's any need for our Rules of Procedure to plead. And since we have opposed majority of Croatian and Serbian envoys, we have called for Article 161(2). The Rules of Procedure, the chairman of the House of Peoples, convenes a Joint Commission composed of three representatives, one of which is one of the representatives of Hrvat, Bošnjak and Srbin. And now I ask the representatives of the clubs to propose one representative in front of their club. On behalf of the Serbian people, here's a proposal for a Joint Commission. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I can say it out loud then, since there are no applications, counterpart Rodić is proposed. In the name of the Hrvat? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3438	Halid the Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3439	Thank you very much. 33 In the name of the Bosniak people, fellow Genjac. I propose that this Committee, in accordance with Article 162(2), try to agree on this issue within 5 days. You can do it after this session, here's how we're supposed to set up a meeting, so the procedure can move forward, and that's how we ended up activities on this agenda point at today's session. Moving to the next item of the agenda, point 11. Ad. 11. Envoy Borjana Krišto request to discuss draft law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, Proposer: The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples At its 31st session, held on 23 July this year, the people adopted the request of Ambassador Borjana Krišto to discuss the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Salary and Compensation in the BiH institutions following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122 of our Rules of Procedure, after which he decided to postpone a statement on the bill for the next session. It's today's session. And as we held the debate there, I do not feel the need to have a debate today on that agenda point, if you all agree, and to go to a vote on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the BiH institutions, in accordance with Article 122 of our Rules of Procedure. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attendance 12 — for 9, abstention 3. The Federation of BiH 5 for, 2 abstentions, RS 4 for, 1 abstention. We have a general, we have an entity majority and I can only conclude that the Law on Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions has been adopted. Moving to the next item of the agenda, item 12, Ad. 12. Envoys Krstan Simić and Dragutin Rodić's request to consider the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3442	Thank you. Well, I wanted to warn you about this quorum, but in the meantime, we can talk about the content of the law. In fact, there seems to be a little bit of a clarity problem. If this Law were to be adopted, then Article 327 point (f) would read - the criminal proceedings ended with a judicial verdict could be repeated in favour of the convicted, and under f) if the Constitutional Court adopted Bosnia and Herzegovina, the House of Human Rights would be deleted, office, or the European way for human rights found that in the course of the human rights and fundamental freedom proceedings and if the judgment was based on that infringement. And then it would continue with the right to have convicts in other cases that the European Court of Human Rights has not discussed. The thought could be that, therefore, in cases that the court has not discussed. Therefore, it could be understood that it could be a point to renew the intention in everything, but it could be understood that everything has the right to restore the procedure condemned. I don't know if this needs to be improved and how it could be specified that the right is achieved, that intention in terms of which it was intended to be achieved, but it seems to me that this is how the dilemma remains.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3443	Thank you, fellow Genjac. But here I am, we took advantage of the time to create business conditions for further work, I would leave the debate for later when we come to the debate on the agenda point, to now stick to your request to resolve this matter by a hasty procedure. Do we have anything to do with that? I don't see any reported, no interest in the application. I am going to ask you to vote on the procedure, so whether or not the draft law will be considered as a matter of urgency in accordance with Article 12. The Rules of Procedure of our House. Please initiate procedure. Thank you. Attending 13 – for 9, versus 2, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH 4 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions. RS 5 for. We have a general, we have an entity majority. I agree that the request for an examination of the amendment and supplementation of the BiH Penal Procedure Act was adopted by a hasty procedure. Now I'm opening a debate on the bill. Here you go. The contribution has already been made by a fellow Genjac. Is there a need for that? Comrade Simić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3444	In fact, Mr. Chairman, here as a proposing, one of the proposings, I would like to clarify both the motives and the effects of this solution, that is, the adoption of this Law. The ruling in Maktouf and Damjanović cases has indeed opened a new page in BiH's judiciary, and 35 are free to say raised such issues, that today we have one big problem as to how all this situation overall overcomes. I don't know if exactly what I'm going to say here, or if I'd say when we discuss the D.A.'s report or the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, because some observations go beyond the framework of these reports, but they're very socially important. First of all, as far as the text is concerned, I think he is clear enough and should not challenge the BiH Court of Justice and the BiH Dilem Prosecution, that this is a group of cases, I don't know if there are any of these items, how many of them there are because..., and Mrs Krišto says he has and that it is just about Mrs Krišto's question, that in one, let me say, democratic way, we create a chance of protecting human rights for people who believe in the BiH system that have finally been told that they are correct and that they are not violating human rights. These people, who believe in the system, have failed to use the necessary effective legal medicines, and since there is no doubt that Maktouf – Damjanović's ruling refers only to specific cases, which have been a lot of discussions, where even some unserious findings have been made, that this will be an audit of all procedures under official duty, etc., I think there is only something here that solves the question that these people who, again, have been undermining BiH as democratic and law-based states, have failed to take advantage of the legal remedy. So this gives the opportunity for these people to apply for a repeat procedure in which, of course, the BiH Court will decide on the procedures provided for by the Criminal Procedure Act. I think this is in the interest of BiH and even, here are colleagues from the Prosecutor's Office, it seems to me that in order to establish a high degree of protection of human rights and the prosecution should be very, very motivated, that it submits a request for the renewal of such procedures, that it, under the circumstances, should be removed. However, I will use this law here to, this bill to understand how deep and far it has now come in the situation we have, when it comes to Maktouf – Damjanović's rulings. We have a position after the Constitutional Court has abolished 10 verdicts. I'm going to start off with this nonsensus that created a new topic, that today people who are convicted, given that the verdicts are lifted, are in prisons, they support sentences, and that there is no judicial decision on the basis of which they are in prisons. It's a harsh, harsh violation of human rights. And that's the situation we've been brought into. The second question that is asked very, very currently here is the constitutional court's status issue. The BiH Constitutional Court is not a fourth-degree court, the Constitutional Court is not a court that discusses judgments to a extent. I would like to find any..., find any regulation that gives the Constitutional Court the right to abolish the BiH Court's verdict or any court in the BiH area. No, he doesn't have that authority. True, it was established in the Rules of Procedure on the Constitutional Court's work, which were brought by the judges themselves and these representatives of the international community, when it was yet to be established. There should be the same practice as in the Strasbourg Court. In the Strasbourg Court, the Strasbourg Court has not abolished the convictions of both Maktouf and Damjanović, it found a certain violation of human rights through a lack of fair trial in the way of applying material law. Only then does this regular legal system under which the persons subject to the verdict, which is also the defendants themselves, apply for a repeat of the case to the Court of Justice of BiH, but on the axis of the clear regulation, is this regulation that we are supplementing, where it is said that a proposal for a repeat procedure can be submitted. By acting on such requirements, the BiH court made a decision allowing the re-trial of the procedure, of course, abolished further detention and created an atmosphere that now introduces it into a normal course. 36 Another issue that is very, very important to move and ask, and it has been raised in its media performances by prominent colleague Azra Miletić, a lady who is indeed an expert in this business and therefore, when someone is talking about issues that are being raised, it must be done with a lot of, a lot of respect and ask. And that is the question – if the BiH Constitutional Court does not have the authority to abolish the verdicts, if the Constitutional Court has concluded that there has been a violation of the right to a fair trial through the wrong application of material law and has not found any injuries in the procedure itself, has that verdict been partially abolished? Is that judgment now just returning to the Court of Justice so that they decide to apply regulations that are lighter or stricter or that trial is brand-new? Because of the decisions we have now, it seems to me that all these procedures are returning to the initial stage, returning to the indictment. The question is, I don't know how many of these cases there are, the question is, if we start again from the indictment, the way the evidence is done, the costs, we've come to one very difficult situation that I really don't even know how it's going to be overcome. But I should have just said this, given Mrs. Krišto point of view and question, that she definitely has to go to the Justice Department and do it urgently, as they say yesterday and not today, raise the question of how this situation is going to get past. And I am now asking a question, I don't know the answer to that question – what happens if the Constitutional Court says wrongly applied, applied softer, or stricter law? Does this mean that there's no good evidence procedure, does that mean that those hundreds of witnesses being questioned should be heard again? Does this mean a vicious circle that will be difficult to get out of both time and financial? So in that direction, I'm looking for solutions. And Mr. Genjac, you don't have to be afraid, this is just one, I don't even know if there's any example, but this is just one supplement that fits in, that even in these cases I can use. But only in cases where deadlines have passed until Maktouf's verdicts are passed. The future can't, in future it goes with a regular procedure – the verdict, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Justice in Strasbourg. And you have no reason to be afraid. Here's just the question that this group of people who are trusting the state on the one hand, on the other hand, are all people who don't have the money for expensive defenses, and here you will see from the D.A.'s report how long war crimes trials last, that it lasts for a year and a half, which is all the cost, missed that... I don't see any reason why they shouldn't be given a chance to do that. And since this is going to happen further, it's not a question, nor a problem for us, it's a problem for the judiciary. In this regard, all this initiative and the purpose of this amendment, or classic additions, is with only one sentence on repetitive procedures. What you said... A home for human rights because it doesn't exist. And it is this provision in the Law on Criminal Procedure that shows that conditions are laid down for repetitive proceedings if the decision of the House of Human Rights, the Constitutional Court and the Court of Justice in Strasbourg shows how inconsistencies we have in relation to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And there is a key problem, because it is necessary to reach the Constitutional Court Act, where it will all be settled, but you all know that it is constitutional matter, because the Constitution says that the Rules of Procedure that cannot be changed are passed. So until we change the Constitution we can't even change the Rules of Procedure, we can't even pass the Constitutional Court Act. But this shows, there are other anomalies that are really necessary to circle the system the way it works. Thank you. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3445	Thank you, colleague Simić. If there's no more charges for the hearing, I don't see it, I'll conclude the debate. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with Article 122. Our Rules of Procedure. Please initiate voting procedure. Attendance 13 - for 10, versus 1, abstention 2. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Should I do it again? If it doesn't matter we don't repeat it, if it is, okay. With respect to this oral comment from Federation 5 for, 1 v, 2 abstentions... error. RS 5 for. We have a general, we have an entity majority. I agree with the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH has been adopted. Moving to the next item of the agenda, point 13, Ad. 13. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3449	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3450	No need, thank you very much. Now I give my word to the bill's promoter, if there's any need. I can't see. We're opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word under this law? I don't see any interest in the debate. We're closing the debate under the bill. I'm asking you to initiate voting procedure on the bill's proposal. Thank you very much. 12 present – for 11.1 abstention. Federation of BiH 8 for. RS 3 for, 1 abstention. We have a general, we have an entity majority. I am establishing the Law on Responsibility for Nuclear Damage was adopted in the same text as in the House of Representatives. We're moving on to the stake of today's 15th agenda, Ad. 15. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The commission has accepted the principles of the bill. At the 51st session held on 25 July, the House of Representatives adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions on detention and other measures in the second reading together with one amendment. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Col. Simić, if there is any need. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3452	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3453	No, thank you very much. I give the word to the legislators of the law if there is any need. No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any interest in the debate, in the application. We're closing. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 12 — for 12, Federation 8. RS 4. He's got a general, he's got an entity majority. I agree, the draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures was adopted in the first reading. We're moving on to the point of today's 16th agenda, Ad. 16. Proposal for a Law on Witness Protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH First, we will have a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. The House of People at the 31st session, held on 23 July, did not accept the opinion of the Constitutional Commission when considering the draft law on the witness protection programme in BiH. The home of the people shall be in accordance with Article 101(3). The Rules of Procedure of our House asked the Commission to come up with a new opinion. You've been given a new opinion of the Constitutional Committee of our House. The commission has accepted the principles of the bill. The House of Representatives is at 55. The session, held on 28.10, adopted the Law on Witness Protection in BiH in a second reading with 11 previous amendments. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Col. Simić if he has any needs.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3455	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3456	No, thank you very much. Proposer of law? No need, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I don't see the interest in the application, and I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. 12 present – for 11.1 abstention. Federation 8 - all for. RS – 3 for, 1 abstention. We have a general, we have an entity majority. I agree with the proposal for a law on a witness protection programme for BiH was adopted in the first reading. 40 We move to the 17th point of today's agenda, Ad. 17. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on indirect taxation (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH We are having a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You've been given the opinion of the Finance and Budget Committee. The commission has accepted the principles of the bill. At its 55th session, held on 28.10, the House of Representatives adopted the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the procedure of indirect taxation in the second reading. I give the word, or there is no need for the Committee, and if there is anyone on behalf of the Proposer of the Law. No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate under this law. I don't see any complaints. We're closing the debate. I'm going to ask you to initiate the voting procedure on the bill's proposal in the first reading. 12 Present – 11 for, 1 abstention. Federation of BiH 8 - all for. RS – 3 for, 1 abstention. We have a general and entity majority. I agree with the proposal for a law amending the Law on the procedure of indirect taxation was adopted in the first reading. Moving to the 18th point of today's agenda, Ad. 18. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on excise duties in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3459	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3460	No, thank you very much. I also don't see the need for the bill promoter. Thank you very much. 41 I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word under this law? There are no reports, no interest in the application, I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please initiate the voting procedure on the bill's proposal in the first reading. 11 Present - 11 for. Federation of BiH 8 - all for. RS 3 - all for. We have a general, we have an entity majority. I agree with the proposal for a law on amending and supplementing the BiH Excise Taxation Act was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point 19, Ad. 19. Adherence to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Parliamentary House of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly As is the first reading, we are having a debate on the necessity of passing the Law and the principles on which the proposal rests. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Committee of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. The commission has accepted the principles of the bill. I give my word to the board's pedsman, my colleague Simić, if there's any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3462	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3463	No, thank you very much. I give my word to the bill's promoter, if there's a need for someone from the House of Representatives, I don't see it. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I can't see interest in the application. We're closing the debate on this proposal. Please initiate voting procedure on the proposal for this law in the first reading. 11 present – all for. Federation of BiH 8 - all for. RS 3 - all for. We have a general, we have an entity majority. I agree with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in BiH was adopted in the first reading. 42 Let's go to point 20, Ad. 20. Proposal for a law on the protection of persons who report corruption in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Parliamentary House of BiH So first we have a debate on the necessity of adoption, the principles on which the bill is based. You've been given the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The commission has accepted the principles of the bill. If there's any need of a colleague, Simić, on behalf of the Committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3465	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3466	No, thank you very much. Proposer, I don't see anyone from the House of Representatives. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. There are no reports. We're closing the debate. Please initiate the voting procedure on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Thank you. Attending 12 - all for. Federation of BiH 8 for. RS 4 - all for. We have a general and entity majority. I agree with the proposal for a law on the protection of persons reporting corruption in BiH institutions was adopted in the first reading. We're moving on to Cube 21, Ad. 21. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Parliamentary House of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly So we're having a discussion about the necessity of adoption and principles. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The commission has accepted the principles of the bill. There is no need on behalf of the Constitutional Commission, Col. Simić. I also don't see the need. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I don't see any reports, I don't see any interest in the application. We're closing the debate. 43 Run the voting procedure on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Thank you. 11 present – by 9, 2 abstentions. Federation of BiH 7 for. RS 2 for, 2 abstentions. We have a general, we have an entity majority. The proposal for a law supplementing the law on the official vote of BiH was adopted in the first reading. Let's go to point 22. Ad. 22. Annual report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3469	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3470	All right, fellow Simić, thank you. I give a word to the Reporter, and here, if we wait for him for a few minutes then can we take a break or wait in peace like this? Both will be business. Or, if you all agree, the suggestion is to leave this point until the rapporteur arrives or go to the next point. We don't have to plead. Thank you very much, I see you all agree. We're moving on to point 23, Ad. 23. Information on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecutor's Office for 2012 You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Commission has taken note of this Information, and is proposing to the House to open a debate on this Information and receive it. The House of Representatives at the 51st session, since 25/07, has not received knowledge of the Information. I give my word to my colleague Simić again, if there is any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3472	44 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3473	No, thank you very much. I'm giving the applicant a word of information if he's present. Please, on behalf of the D.A., do you have any needs? __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is anyone answering for a word? I don't have an application on the monitor. I'm a colleague of Simić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3475	Thank you. We're waiting so long for this item to come up on the agenda so suddenly there are no more reported or interested. Me with this agenda point, as with the other agenda points, where he says – they're being taken to the knowledge, I have a problem. That's the problem if I take it into my knowledge, I've read it and received it and I don't see how I can vote now whether I've received it or not. It's for these authors of ours, including me, who are writing amendments and supplementing the Rules of Procedure, to solve this one, not to say, under the pretext, nonsense, here's someone saying stupid things. And now I'm voting that I haven't received knowledge, read four times, summed up numbers, people, etc. The report on the work of the Prosecutor's Office for 2012 is, technically, identical to the report for each year. Of course, only the indicators of completed or unfinished cases, of the activities and problems that the prosecution has in its work are changing. It is difficult here now from the point of view of this data, if you do not have insight into the state of the case, everything else, to give a court whether that is enough, whether it is not enough, mostly always public enough, especially when we have the authority of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. However, I would say a few remarks about, and perhaps even initiated by the prosecution's representatives and answers to some of the questions being asked. First of all, I'm going to be dealing with the work of the War Crimes Department, which is from a point of view, and neither do I, the public of a large number of victims who expect justice, perhaps the most interesting and most important. These data on the number of completed items indicate that a certain number of items have been made. Considering what kind of case it was that the excerpts lasted several years and that there were certain charges that ended in the Court of Justice. But I'm a little confused by this data, if you take the transferred state on 01.01. ...and then this '12. For years, that defacto appears in 7,645 persons. 7.645 persons are in a certain way the object of certain investigations, certain checks, certain conditions for the conduct or conduct of criminal proceedings on those persons, i.e. to be prosecuted at the end of the proceedings before the Court of Justice. When I look further, the cases in which an investigation has been suspended, the cases in which no order to conduct an investigation has been passed, it is one 600-700 cases when I add up so quickly, I am asked 45 questions and dilemmas – how is it possible and how do we get in a position to have so many people reported? Is this the consequence of the absence of the work of the law enforcement authorities to prepare those initials... that we have one... to process 7,645 people, and we bring it down to some indictees, much less. It raises the question of where the problem is and whether one is created here... about the existence of the person we judge and who is not later covered. Of course, when we consider this ours, as the components here say, so any verdict is a reason for one commitment as one goes, the other doesn't go, one court, the other rewards, etc. I can see that there are in principle relatively few prosecutors here compared to this number of faces. And I see that here in a certain way comes the impasse of that strategy that was adopted on the processing of war crimes. I don't think it's going on with enough dynamics and that maybe it's a question for the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and the others involved in this control. However, I would like to have another observation regarding the issue of war crimes. The issue of war crimes often relates to certain public figures that are the subject of the prosecution's interest, and I would say more subject to public interest. I'm aware of the fact that the D.A. has to take care of some of his priorities, some of his schedule, his plan, but I think that even though we have people who are accused and represent, let's say figuratively, VIP personalities, public figures, personalities and active participants of events that were from '91-95, I think the prosecution should have heard there, that these cases are being handled as a priority. It's hard to explain to the public that, for example, General Atif Dudaković's case does not end 6-7 years. There's more. Of course I don't think of myself as being someone who now thinks General Atif Dudaković is guilty or to be his lawyer and say he's not guilty. It's a matter of the prosecution, it's a matter of the Court, but it's really inadmissible that this case, for which I don't see any objective obstacles, since it happened in space, that Mr. Dudaković is there, that there is an entire circle of witnesses, that this case doesn't end. Or our colleague in Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly, I think his name is Mehmedović. It also takes a long time to process in the same way. I don't want to say that Mr. Mehmedović did anything that wasn't illegal, but I don't want to say that he did. But if we have that object alive, if we have that item every night in the media, if we have that object where it binds, I'm sure it doesn't contribute to reconciliation, that it doesn't contribute to the creation and trust of the judiciary, or this segment of the judiciary, and that such objects do a lot of damage. Big damage, getting nervous and creating... the NGO sector to move these issues around. There's a universal question here. Do we have brave prosecutors? General Dudaković's case, the prosecutor must have the courage, primarily the expertise to bring the case to an end. If it's for the prosecution to charge, to stand up to its decision. If he is not guilty of making a decision to suspend the criminal proceedings and to stand behind his decision again. One thing I'm saying is, pimping for days and days doesn't lead to certain conditions to create trust in the work of the Court and to create, the overall system, and to make decisions that will be made. I'm aware of the facts, and I think Mr. Novković also spoke once about the fact that the judiciary really has problems. When I speak, I just don't think about the prosecution right now, that very often people who aren't of quality appear, that it's hard to choose certain people who have both professional and any other capacity. But that has to be a question for us as a society. For almost 20 years after the war, we have failed to train and create judges, prosecutors who will be independent, who will be brave, who will be professional and who will be able to do what is supposed to be done. 46 I am aware of problems called various pressures. I'd like any court, any judge to give me one public, one public appeal to put pressure on them by a certain person, one or one. I'm aware that there are also media pressures, pressures and the NGO sector, and I'm aware of the shows that are right in that tone. But I'm just afraid the biggest problem is when we talk about judicial independence, self-censorship in the heads and judges and prosecutors. That they have not yet gained the courage needed, the determination to act in accordance with those principles that exist in the Court, indeed make their own decisions, which will serve them honorably. Unlike previous reports, when we had foreign prosecutors, when we were really coming across everything and everything, I have to say that this is a confirmation, this report is a confirmation of how much damage the foreign prosecutors had done before, performing... we are international prosecutors, we are Bogo's days, we are set up by Mr. Ešdaun, by Bog and by him. Today we have, I'm sure, a healthier atmosphere. But the overall impact in bh society is not such that today we would have satisfied citizens, satisfied public, satisfied and other issues. Especially if the data that Mr Genjac read earlier is taken that BiH is in a very, very high place, almost at the top of the corruption and crime rankings. I think in this report that segment shows that we don't have enough cases, we don't have capital items, we don't have objects that would show that there's a commitment to confront this problem. I would like to have a site in this report where the BiH Parliamentary Assembly says its views block the work of judicial institutions, from the Court of Justice in Calesia to I do not know the Court of BiH. We have one silence about this relationship, silence, and obviously we haven't reached that level when we can speak freely. Yesterday at a session of the Constitutional Committee, which refers to the Prosecutor's Office, I mentioned that it would be good for the Prosecutor's Office, from the High Court Council, courts to come along with initiatives in which certain legal issues are resolved in a better way, because these are people who have these cases every day, each day have problems, where our support would just be through support in one legislative legislation that would be in the function of this. So when we add this report, you can observe it twice. When you first read it, there are results, and when you compare it to the social reality, social reality, social relations, the degree of corruption, the duration of the proceedings, these events that we've had through the McTouf and Damjanović verdicts and some other decisions, I'm afraid there's still a long way ahead of us to get to a judicial system, and now I'm talking about the prosecution, and the prosecutions that are really going to be in the function of protecting those values that belong. I have to, recently read an interview with a Sarajlija, Aleksandar Hemon, who said about his stay in Chicago had become a famous writer, so they asked him to compare the former state he was in and now from capitalism. He said about the following – in the former state we had almost the best health care system, we had a top education and we had a great judiciary. And when I come to Sarajevo today, it seems to me that all three pillars have been well devastated. The way before the tužilatvo's Office, the High Court's advice, and for all of us, is a duty, to establish a modern, professional, independent and above all brave justice system, because these times seek the brave and the judges and prosecutors, and to Bog we and the legislators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3476	Thank you, fellow Simić. 47 kolega Ivanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3477	Well, the right to tell you, I don't know if it makes any sense at all what I'm going to say, but here's if for no other reason than to keep this topic alive, if it's even possible to keep it alive and if there's gonna be people in this country who are brave enough to make only one information about the effects of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges and to go out and say their views on it. I fall among people who have signed their own time agreement to have foreign prosecutors come, because I was convinced that we would need people of knowledge, political neutrality, people who had experience in introducing justice in troubled countries and today I think we needed such people. Unfortunately, during this period, we received bureaucrats, people's ossions, people who were arrogant, empty people who instead created justice, by various circles, political processes and political persecution. And someone should do it once, and if it's lucky that then and those honest people, who from the judiciary had their own attitude, and many of them had problems because they had their own attitude, come in a position to get some kind of satisfaction, were they both better and more professional and moral than those who were supposed to come and do it here. I recently had the opportunity to see that famous object that concerns me and, as far as I'm concerned, the Serbian Forests, that the man who was convicted was also released because of some unlawfully obtained evidence, because the evidence was planted and because even the local prosecutor in the record said that his hands were tied in the case. And that's what we're listening to, and still, I think, those people who used to do it around here are playing BiH's big advocates of law and no one has the courage to open the topic. As much as I'm saying this, unlike an interview where Mrs. Kreso thought I was attacking her and the institution, I never attack an institution, I think I'm defending the dignity of domestic people and domestic institutions by asking to talk about this once. And once that burden was lifted, those who weren't there don't know what fear ruled in that building there from one another, who listens to whom, who doesn't listen, who can't be seen, who isn't allowed to, believe me, that I know it and that it was terrible. One should talk about it if we can't as a political institution, then some independent intellectuals, at least in some pub there, talk to each other and in this country, show some dignity and tell some people what you've been doing, were at the expense of this country, and you've got a lot of money behind you, and you've left a completely destroyed, destroyed judiciary to which no one now lives and which has become the subject of political subsidisation solely because of such large, ambitious, imposed and most direct abuse of the justice system. We didn't divide around the justice system as much as the others have divided us, and we will live much longer in the consequences and mutual mistrust because of such a single relationship. If that time came back and I had my right again, I would like to have experienced, healthy, honest, brave and responsible prosecutors and judges again, but I could never again allow myself to come to the most common bureaucrats who in their countries represent nothing, literally irrelevant people, and here they played huge sizes, and we had to be and that they could do whatever they wanted here. And as long as this mandate lasts, I will ask for this information, knowing that I will not get it and knowing that neither of my colleagues here has the right support for such a thing. Why is it so, are we all really afraid of this invisible man who stands around here and who can endanger us or are such big political things, or are we really not important as MPs, so we can ignore it for so many years. I ask you all to ask yourself once, and people what really is the reason that a 48 so elemental thing is what the effects of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges once are discussed and that someone in this country is saying – there were both useful and bad, to make one normal information. I still can't figure it out, and I don't understand why that information doesn't exist. And when she's gone, I can't believe those institutions. How will I believe, when even the elemental, when the High and Judicial Council says it's not ours, we didn't ask, we can't evaluate the ones we didn't ask, the prosecutor that the explanation why he couldn't, the OHR ignored as if we didn't exist. And we're just spinning around in a circle where we're making some kind of this even say a bit of a political farce, and this is a very tragic, one very tragic situation in which, let's call it, a serious home can't get any elemental information for two years. Well, I guess that's how it has to be, and I guess we live in a country where it's normal, and it's not normal to discuss a document that I think should be quite common. Thank you, as far as I'm concerned, I mean, I've received knowledge of this information, but I'll be held back for this information until once that conclusion of this House is made and if you want my personal one is not adopted and realized by someone who has the courage to write ten sentences on that subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3478	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. The debate on this subject is no longer reported, and I don't see any interest in reporting, so I'm going to conclude a debate on this agenda point. And I'm going to ask you to initiate the voting procedure on this Information. Thank you. Attendance 11 – for 5, against 3 abstentions 3. Federation of BiH – 5 for, 2 against. RS - 1 versus, 3 abstentions. We have a general but we don't have an entity majority. Thank you very much, we have a technical problem here now, given that we do not have business conditions to continue the session again, we will have to wait for colleague Bradarić to work further, but as far as this agreement is concerned, so the Kolega will take a position on this, and we will discuss it at the next session. That concludes point 23. And I'd love to go back to point 22, but we're gonna have to wait for a colleague to have business conditions to work on. Since we have representatives of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, or president, welcome, but we will still wait for us to sit here, so probably our colleagues can't sit in one place for long. So we're going back to debate at point 22, and we've come to the point that we're giving word to the Reporter, so we're going to wait with that second, two. If you're all tired, we can arrange a five-minute break so that I.....but I'm afraid five minutes will be 15 and we'll lose a little bit more, yes. Well, we'd rather take a break like this together. 49 [[PAUZA]] Okay, I suggest we get started. We have business conditions, and I'm going to ask my colleagues, and I know it's hot, but to last another 40 minutes, we're going to finish what's left of our agenda. Thank you very much. So, point 22 of today's agenda, Ad. 22. Annual report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012 since 13/08
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3483	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3484	Thank you very much. 51 I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I don't have any reports. I don't see any interest in the application. We're closing the hearing. We are voting on the conclusions of the Joint Committee. Please initiate voting procedure. Attendance 11 - 10.1 abstention. Federation of BiH – 6 for, 1 abstention. RS – 4 all for. We have a general and entity majority, I find the conclusions of the Joint Defence and Security Commission on the blockade of BiH institutions from 05 June to 07 June 2013 have been adopted. Thank you very much. Moving to the next point, point 25. Ad. 25. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2012, the BiH Ministry of Security material since 10.07.2013 You have received the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH, the Commission has received information. The Joint Committee shall, as an integral part of this Opinion, forward to the House of Peoples the following conclusions: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly is asking the Ministry of Security to inform the Joint Commission within 30 days of the following: (a) What is being done within the Security Sector and the Law Implementation Agency to avoid negative implications for BiH after the return of its citizens who are warring under the flag of radical Islam in Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan and other countries? ( b) What has been done by BiH institutions in investigating the activities of criminal groups that have built strong positions in different structures of government, and also mentioned in the Information on the Security of BiH for the past year? ( c) What have BiH institutions taken towards employees of different authorities, as well as police and security agencies, who are being associated with individual criminals? d) What has the Ministry of Security done to process individual executive and judicial authorities in BiH who took part in receiving bribes, money and other values from criminals? At the 53rd session held on 19 September this year, the House of Representatives received information with the conclusions of the Joint Defence and Security Committee opinion. I give my word to my colleague Krišto, appointed by the Joint Commission as rapporteur for the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3486	52 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3487	Thank you very much. I'm giving the applicant a word of information if there's any need on behalf of the Ministry of Security. Thank you very much. There's no one here. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There's no record of the hearing. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. And please initiate voting procedure on this Information. Attendance 11 - 10.1 abstention. Federation of BiH – 7 for. RS – 3 for, 1 abstention. The general and entity majority exist, I conclude the conclusions of the Joint Defence and Security Committee have been adopted. Thank you very much. We're moving to item 26. Today's agenda, Ad. 26. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2012, Council of Ministers' material You have received the opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget, the Commission has received knowledge of the Information and is proposing to the House to take it into account. The House of Representatives at the 54th session held on 07.10th of this year received information and adopted conclusions. I give my word to the Chairman of the Committee. There's no need. We give the word to the applicant. There's no need. Thank you. We're opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? I don't have any reports. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. Please initiate the voting process on this Information. 11 present – all for. Federation of BiH – 7 za, RS – 4 za. We have a general and entity majority and I agree on the state of BiH's public debt on 31.12.2012. We're going to the 27th point, Ad. 27. Impact review report – Management of goods seized in customs procedures, material of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions since 12.07.2013
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3492	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3493	As in the proposal, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate about the proposal I read. 55 Reports are missing. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. We vote on a single ranking proposal for three candidates for the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, which consists of: Aida Abadzic-Abadžić-Hodžić, Vlado Majstorović and Stevan Trbojević, and Zoran Selešković as a member who will take office instead of a member of the Board of Directors of Muris Čičić. Please initiate voting procedure for the Unique List. Attendance 10 - all for. Federation of BiH – 7 za, RS – 3 za. We have a general and entity majority and I find that Aida Abadzic-Abadžić-Hodžić, Vlado Majstorović and Stevan Trbojević are appointed members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, and a member who will take office instead of a member of the Board of Directors, Muris Čičić, was appointed Zoran Selešković. Thank you very much. We're moving to the 30th agenda of today's session, Ad. 30. Proposal for a conclusion of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH and the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH since 05.11.2013. At the 31st session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, I adopted a report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission of both the Houses of Parliamentary Assembly on amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly and tasked the Commission with working in July, September and October to end the development of a new Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, and to deliver them in parliamentary procedure by the end of October this year. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives also adopted the above-mentioned Report at its 49th session on 8 July, and tasked the Commission with working in September, October and November to end the drafting of the new Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, and to deliver them in parliamentary procedure by the end of November, which would mean this month. In view of the fact that both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly adopted conclusions different in terms of the period of work of the members of the Committee, the Committee was held at the 7th session of the 25th session. .... October adopted and proposed that the House of Nations adopt new conclusions which read: 1. It is the temporary joint commission of both the Houses of Parliament to draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH by working in September, October and November, respecting the results of the work so far, ending the production of new Rules of Procedures of the House of Representatives and the House of Nardoda and delivering them to parliamentary procedure by the end of November of this year. 56 2. The adoption of this conclusion puts out of effect the conclusion of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly made in 23.07.2013. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. There's no record, no interest in the application. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We vote or vote on the conclusions of the Interim Joint Commission as I have now read. Please initiate voting procedure. 10 present – for all 10. Federation of BiH – 7 za, RS – 3 za. We have a general and entity majority, and I find that the conclusions of the Interim Joint Commission on both homes were adopted as I read. On today's agenda, we still have to discuss giving consent to ratifying agreements, contracts and protocols, and I propose that we bring the debate together, a statement on granting consent to ratification of agreements, contracts and protocols referred to in points 31 to 49, including point 49. I'm opening a debate first on this proposal for unification. Do we have any comments? I can't see the application. Thank you very much. Then we vote. Please initiate procedure for this proposal of unification. Thank you. Attendance 10 – all for, Federation of BiH – 7 for, RS – 3. We have a general and entity majority related to this proposal. So the proposal was passed. Ad. 31 to 49.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3496	Thank you very much. Since we adopted the agreement here under this point, in some way, that we are expressing ourselves in a package of consent to all the agreements that are in our agenda session today, 57 of course, and we have supported it, and I have come forward among other things in the debate and I want in a special way, although in some way they are important, this, for some processes and for BiH, all these agreements that are on the agenda, but I would like to highlight one agreement that is on the agenda today, and it is an agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on border crossings. Given that this Agreement has been applicable since the date of signature and that the Agreement simply states that an indefinite period of time is in force, but given that it enters into force in accordance with the legal procedure that is with us, and that is the one that is here today on the agenda, after the Parliamentary Assembly has ratified it, i.e. that its consent, I will also say in the context of what I am saying on my own behalf, and I speak on behalf of the Croatian Club. That we will, in some way, give consent to all others and also to this Agreement, for one reason only, that the legal procedure is such as to go into the procedure for amending this Agreement to come into force, so in this context, I would like to say right now when we give consent to the proposal for a conclusion: To be in charge of the institutions, i.e. specifically the Council of Ministers, that, immediately after the entry into force of this Agreement, it goes into the procedure of amending the Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on border crossings, in accordance with the initiatives already given and which exist in the institutions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3497	Thank you, colleague Krišto. We don't have any more applications to discuss, no more interests. Thank you. I propose that we vote on granting consent to ratification of the agreements and contracts and protocols referred to in points 31 to 49, including point 49. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you, 10 present – 10 for. Federation of BiH – 7 for RS – 3. We have a general and entity majority, I agree that we have agreed to ratify the agreements, contracts and protocols referred to in points 31 to 49, including item 49 of the agenda. Now I'm going to ask you just for a little bit of attention, first of all, I'm going to ask you to stay after this session, because here today we used the right because everyone here is on behalf of that committee, so that we can gather together and formally finish the initiative we got from the Bošnjak klub proposal, so we don't have to call each other specifically. So here's when we finish this session I suggest we stay here, members, okay, we understand each other. And since the word has been answered by a Košarac, I'm asking him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3498	Thank Mr. Čović. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome you and thank you for the support you provided during my appointment. We've known each other less, we've been doing a very important job for this country for three years. I think we have articulated enough different political sightings and only in the end showed that the House of Peoples can be an effective part of BiH institutions, and I am convinced that in the 58th period we will work on efficiency. Of course, there will be different political topics, different political challenges, but I think we will ultimately ensure that the House of Peoples fully works in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-0.u3499	Thank you, colleagues, for your sincere congratulations from all of us. That concludes today's session of the House of Peoples. I ask that my colleague Krišto, a colleague of Rodić and a colleague of Genjac remain attached to this request. Thank you very much. Session completed at 4:06 p.m.
