ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18016	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 56th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from today's session was justified by MPs Emir Kabil and MP Danijela Martinović. According to the information service, 32 MPs are present at the moment. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Before I move on to the explanation of today's agenda, let me congratulate the Muslims in BiH on the happy and barbery New 1435 Hijret year. When it comes to changes and additions to the session agenda, I would like to mention the following. On the agenda, you add: Point 8. A report on the work of the BiH Defence Ministry for 2012, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. Point 9. Report on the work of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to determine the legality and conduct of competent state authorities in the event of the detention and detention of Šemsudin Mehmedović, MPs in the House of Representatives. Point 10. Proposal for a decision to appoint the secretary of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Tvt. 11. Appointment of members of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency Council, the BiH Council of Ministers material. Point 12. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to prepare the amendment and addition of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Law – Proposer: College of the Parliamentary House of BiH. And point 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH – Proposer: The Joint Commission for Human Rights, the Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics is complemented by the Constitutional Commission Report. 2 I am opening a debate on the proposed agenda. As regards the proposed agenda, MP Beriz Belkić first signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18017	I'm not going to make any concrete suggestions, but I'm going to make a kind of comment on the proposed agenda. So it's really more than a modest agenda, which I don't remember until now that we've had a more modest agenda. And from the point of view of economics, the question is whether this agenda was meant to hold a session, with the obvious attempt to fix things. I am interested in why, therefore, when it comes to the materials and the inability to fill the agenda, why, for example, not today, reports on the implementation of the 2012 budget that we received in the 6th month of this year, regardless of the practice to consider with the audit reports, etc. And we may have been able to do part of the audit reports, not have 80-90 reports in one session. So there was room for a little, let's put it that way, to update things. In addition, we have a few initiatives, as far as I can remember, by MPs standing here for two and less time, reckless. There's more. Furthermore, we also have a proposal for an amendment to the BiH Constitution, several amendments from several applicants related to the application or to the implementation of the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci verdict. And that should have been dealt with in some way, because what if tomorrow God Bog us the news that an agreement has been reached, so amendments that have been agreed upon. So, I'm expressing general dissatisfaction and I think there was room to make a little effort that today's agenda could have been richer, so to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18018	Okay. I have determined that MEP Belkić is still expressing what he was talking about. I also have to say business to draw attention to the other debaters on the agenda, that it is businessly possible only to intervene in a way that you propose a completely new agenda point or that you are asking for the abandonment of some of the agenda points. And about what Mr. Belkić was talking about, I have to say that we in the College have had a little consideration about this dynamic of holding a House of Representatives session, and here we are always in a dilemma. We, here for the third month in a row, have established the dynamics that we have a session almost every 14-15 days, but when we do not have such dynamics, then again on the other hand, some attack why Parliament does not sit. Today's session has 12 agenda points. I wish there was more, but what's here is here. And about that, I mean, you've rightly pointed out, and we all need to take a little care of ourselves. We've got more discussions on the agenda. Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18019	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I propose that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives not today declares itself on the proposed point 11. Appointment of members of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications Council. This House and this Parliamentary Assembly have passed some of the laws that have been passed by the proposal of the list, which has been delivered to us today for a plea, violated. So it's about breaking the law that passed this House and this Parliamentary Assembly. I propose that the list be returned to the BiH Council of Ministers for readjustment and that they are delivered in accordance with the laws that have been violated at the moment, without us as parliamentarians being put in a position to vote on something that we will violate our earlier decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18020	I will only ask all of you who have concrete interventions on the agenda to call on the relevant member of the Rules of Procedure and, of course, deliver it in writing here and to the College. Unlike counterpart Belkić, who does not have a representative in the Expansive College, I would like to appeal once again to the political parties who have their representatives in the enlarged College to try during the session of the Extended College to resolve these issues, not to be there at least among those who participate in the Extended College of Surprises in less than 12 hours from that session. The word has an MP, Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18021	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. I'm joining the position of distinguished colleague Dervoz, related to point 11. I also believe that this point has not met the business conditions for today to be on the agenda for several reasons. The first thing that has not been completed is the appeal procedure that should have ended the competent one, whether an Ad hoc commission was appointed to elect members of the Agency's Council. And secondly, here's the kind of proposal we got on one page that didn't go through the commission phase. I've been thinking about talking about this on the board, not getting into the scale and procedure and violation of the Communications Act that you unfortunately have, here's the vote you've brought. Besides, I think it's clear that he's in a hurry, but we should provide a minimum of respect for the Rules of Procedure and the Communication Act, so that this is on the agenda at all today. I understand the strong desire to clean up the media space before 2014 which is an election year, to discipline certain electronic and printed media in preparation for the pre-election campaign, but I ask you to respect at least those laws that we have passed here in the Parliamentary Assembly. Therefore, here I will join, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDA, the position of colleague Dervoz not to find this point today in the agenda, or to be removed from the agenda. Second thing, I want you to do point nine. A report on the work of the Investigation Commission, I read the position of the Investigation Commission which is that there is no attitude. And as far as I know, they have sent a letter to the Court of BiH asking that, which is the only one relevant to say, whether there was a breach, or whether it was an illegal procedure for my detention and detention by SIPA. I therefore propose that this point be removed from the agenda today until the Court of Justice's position is obtained which would be valid and relevant and that we then discuss all the elements and details of this point 9. And of course, here's to point 8. I know that, as counterpart Beriz said, the agenda is very modest, but as far as point 8 is concerned, are we going to consider future reports on the work of every four ministries, which would certainly be commendable, or will only be the Ministry of Defence, here at the request of the Commission for Defence and Security. I'd like to ask that we have a colleague here to assess someone on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18022	Thank you. The word has been made by Vice-President Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18023	My colleagues and fellow MPs. It is very difficult to do the agenda when you have to put mandatory agenda points that neither you nor the Extended College nor this House to take down, when they have come under established business procedures and met all the conditions that need to meet the point to come to the agenda. But it can, and we've done that so far, when we adopt the agenda and get to a certain point, we suggest that it return to the Council of Ministers, we suggest that we don't plead against them, or anything this House can do in its jurisdiction. So don't suggest we take off the mandatory agenda points, because that's contrary to the Rules of Procedure. You can also, as counterpart Belkić said, propose new agenda points, but the biggest problem is that we are stuck in communication with those who are needed, who need to deliver us certain materials for the agenda point. If this Parliament agrees, and we in the Extended College agree, we can also agree on what material it has but these are not all materials for certain agenda points to put in and open the debate. Just don't make it so it's not a high-quality agenda item. But we can, in this way, open up all initiatives that have passed the commission phase, etc., etc., etc. So I would ask you not to propose to take down mandatory items of the agenda, because it can't be done, but when we open the agenda point, you suggest that it either postpone the statement or say that a closed session is being sought for a certain item of the agenda as possible, so that we return to business procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18024	Is anyone else coming forward about the agenda debate before I close the debate? I find that there are no more reports. I am closing the debate on the agenda and I am giving a 15-minute break to copy and deliver to the MPs what MPs have proposed so far. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get back to work. As we've already said, we've taken this break for business reasons. And I am now going to ask the Secretary of the House of Representatives to read a five-way provision relating to mandatory agenda points. After that, I think it's going to be a lot clearer for all of us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18026	Article 65. Rules of Procedure item 1. Proposing a new and abandoning optional agenda item says – at the beginning of the session the MP, as well as any authorised promoter, has the right to request the abandonment of the optional point and the suggestion of a new one, with the relevant material in writing. The suspension of mandatory points of Article 64(1) which speaks of the establishment of the agenda of this Rules of Procedure is not allowed. So the College considers this to be the mandatory item of the agenda that has passed the procedure, so it's not allowed to remove these dots.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18027	So our proposal, given that according to our interpretation, it is mandatory points of the agenda, that all of these interventions and suggestions that you have, when we open that item of the agenda, offer appropriate conclusions that we can make after that. I will now read the agenda of the 56th session of the House. Agenda 1. Approval of the minutes of the 55th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Legislative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, with Report of the Constitutional Commission, Law No: 01,02-02-1-5/13, of 22.01.2013, with Report of the Constitutional Commission; 4. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on Non-Work Days at the time of the religious holidays in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01.02- 02-1-45/13, of 30.09.2013; 5. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Annual Financial Report of the Public Administration Reform Fund for 2012, material of the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office, issue: 01,02-07-642/13, since 04.06.2013; 6. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusions of the SDA Club MPs on the debate on the Information on the violation of the BiH Constitution in Republika Srpska on the right to a national group of courses in Konjevic Polje and other schools – Proposers: MPs from the SDA Club, issue: 01-50-19-1097/13, from 23.10.2013; 7. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mirsad Mešić on the proposal for a conclusion on the extension of the mandate of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to determine the legality of the conduct of 6 competent state authorities in the event of the detention and detention of Šemsudin Mehmedović, MPs in the House of Representatives. 8. BiH Ministry of Defence 2012 report, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, No: 01,02-03-162/13, of 19.07.2013; 9. Report on the work of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to determine the legality of the handling of competent state authorities in the event of the detention and detention of Šemsudin Mehmedović, MP at the House of Representatives, No: 01-50-5-1130/13, of 31.10.2013; 10. Proposal for a decision to appoint a secretary of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 11. The appointment of members of the BiH Regulatory Agency, the Council of Ministers material, No 01,02-34-1-1123/13, of 30.10.2013; 12. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to prepare the amendment and addition of the BiH Election Law – Proposer: College of the Parliamentary House of BiH. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 55th session of the House of Representatives You've got the record. Do you have any objections? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate on the first item of the agenda. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18030	Well, I got an answer from the Directorate for Direct Taxation on the question of what they did about the arrest and detention of a number of executive workers of the IRS, because they suspected that they were taking bribes, misusing the situation, doing material and other damage to the state. 7 In response, they are said to be suspended while they are in custody. So, what does that mean while they're in custody? You can get out of custody without the investigation ending and that the prosecution is still running certain proceedings. In my opinion, therefore, this suspension should continue until the end of the procedure. In this way, the findings that have surprised all of us here in that 2012 Safety Report have been confirmed, where it is true and clearly stated that there are people in high positions in the authorities of the administration, BiH institutions associated with crime. So this example is obvious. And the real question is practically what these internal controls are doing in our institutions, how it is possible that this amount of crime is done and that it is only practical to know about it when the media, or when police, on the basis of some reports, etc., occur. So, I am pleased with the answer, I thank you for the answer, but this is one signal that it is indeed a finding in the report on security that there are serious people in the BiH institutions and that is more reason why this parliamentary commission is not without reason, or it is not without reason formed and it is hoped that we will come to an end and clear the overall situation, not only in this institution, but also in other where there are some grounds for doubts about these phenomena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18031	Thank you. A comment on the answers provided also has a letter from Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18032	Here I finally got, soon there will be a year of questions about the destruction of ammunition and mine-explosive assets in Glamoc Municipality. And here, I got an answer which is only part of the answer that should be related to my initiative adopted by the House of Representatives, which is called the consequences of the destruction of ammunition and mine-explosive assets on Barbara's local population in Glamoch Municipality. What I have received is actually material that the Ministry of Defence... material of the Institute of Public Health from Banja Luka which analyzes the land in the Municipality of Glamoć and the material says that the land is not contaminated, meaning it is not radioactive, but there are heavy metals dangerous to people's lives. We did not get an answer as to what it means and what consequences in the land may be heavy metals. In this regard, I believe that the answer is only partial and should be insisted on explaining what this amount of presence means and this quantity and this number of times the allowed limit values for certain heavy metals located in the land of the Municipality of Glamoc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18033	Thank you. A comment on the response also comes from MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18034	Thank you, Chairman. At the 48th session, I asked a representative question – does the position of the director of SIPA not include access to very secret information? I got an unsettled answer, and that's why I want to comment on it. I received an answer to the earlier question that the SIPA director has access to the level data - secret. This is some middle degree of secrecy, and here I am now responding to having access to data degrees – very secretly, although I did not ask that, which means that in the Ministry of Security, or the competent institutions that are doing the checking, some of the actions that are not legal at least. So my next question will be about this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18035	Is there still any comment on the answers? I'm realizing there's no more. We now move on to, b) Nn's parliamentary issues. Have there been any reports of any new parliamentary issues? First, MP Šemsudin Mehmedović signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18037	Thank you very much. Here, as I said, is the representation question to the Director of OSA – When and at whose request has security clearance been carried out for the face of Goran Zubac, and to provide me with the number of security clearances for access to the level data – very secret? That's one question. And the second question is the Government of the Federation of BiH and the Government of the ZE-DO Canton – Is it possible that because of the lack of a certain type of medicine used during dialysis, patients' mortality in the Dialytic Centre of Zepce has increased by several times? If they are correct, who is responsible and what measures do you intend to take against those responsible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18038	Thank you. The next is the respected representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18039	I have two questions and they're very short. So, a question for the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers – Is the correct information, published in the media, that more iPhones were purchased for employees in the Secretariat at the price of 1,650 KM per piece? If the information is correct how many of these machines were purchased, for whom and based on whose decisions? The second question is for the Council of Ministers – Do you intend to prevent, namely, high financial damage to the Budget of BiH because of the non-implementation of the Agreement on Fundamental Principles to address the issue of immovable and mobile property, concluded between the Council of Ministers and entity governments on 12.07.2017, in terms of non-implementation, by entities agreed on? It's thought of not taking 22 inspective military locations by entities. Just a few details. So, this fact that entities have not taken over 22 fixed locations that are ready to contribute products per year in terms of about 300,000 marks of communals for these facilities and the engagement of 87 soldiers, persons per day, to provide these 22 locations. It's been going on for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18040	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18041	I have one question for the BiH Presidency and for the Council of Ministers of BiH, special for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – why has no one from BiH participated in the funeral of Polish statesman Tadeuš mazovjetski? Is this about ideological disagreements because of his active role in the destruction of the criminal communist system in the 1980s or his activities as a special rapporteur for human rights in the former Yugoslavia, or is it something else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18042	Thank you. Dear Representative Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18043	Mr. Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I have been asked by the local Assembly in Zvornik to ask a question, given the authority of this, the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers of BiH, and I am referring the issue to the BiH Border Police. It refers to an unwarranted long wait for the border crossing at the Šepak border crossing with the Republic of Serbia – what exactly are the reasons that have caused such a wait in recent months? 10 It is an important border area, where there are a large number of citizens who are related to the area across the border, whether through ownership of property or daily migration, as a cause of employment on the other side of the border. It is therefore clear that it is in the interests of both countries, especially in the interests of the population, that human trafficking is done without unnecessary difficulties. What are the steps that the Border Police intend to take to shorten the wait for the border crossing and thus prevent unnecessary congestion and waste of citizens' time? I'd like a written answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18044	Thank you. Dear representative Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18045	Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome everyone present. My question is addressed to the BiH Ombudsman Institution – What have the Ombudsman done about the protection of children from Konjevic Polje? We are witnessing that there is a controversy on the violation of the rights of children from Konjević Polje these days, and I believe that the BiH Ombudsman's institution for human rights should be involved and put forward its position. If she's done this before, please get me the information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18046	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18047	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I have the same question to ask the BiH presidency. In accordance with the current regulations, the BiH Presidency is required to submit the draft law containing the BiH institutions' budget for the following year before 15 October. So that deadline expired almost a month ago. The question is – When will the Presidency fulfil its constitutional and legal obligation?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18048	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18049	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, the media, I welcome you all together. 11 For today's session, I have three shorter questions. First for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which reads – Why is the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's website not in office? The second question – What is the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport doing on the part of the use of roads, i.e. their burdens and use, primarily from motor vehicles of foreign registration marks and whether the option of introducing vignettes is considered as the most appropriate form of compensation? And the third question – Why is there no table marking BiH territory at the Raca border crossing between BiH and the Republic of Serbia, and who is responsible for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18050	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18051	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers and reads: In the framework of the official publication of the sum of foreign direct investment in BiH, of around 11.4 billion KM at the end of 2012, there is a significant part of the intra-corporate loans that investors grant to their daughters to the subsidiaries they founded in BiH. I ask the Council of Ministers to respond – What is the amount of these loans, with their total sum shown over the last five years and a share in total direct investment towards sectors and countries? I would also like to make a comment – How much has the economic crisis affected trends in the movement of these types of foreign direct investment and how much do these loans affect the quality of foreign investment in BiH? So, in one word in foreign direct investment, we also have a significant part of the credit that must be returned, which is shown as direct foreign investment. So, that question certainly has a very important point, when analysing the structure of these investments, and that is why I think it's a very current issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18052	Thank you. Dear Representative Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18053	So, the question is to the Council of Ministers – What exactly does the Council of Ministers in the direction of providing funding for institutions of importance for BiH, and to allow the reopening of the Earth Museum and other institutions that are closed due to the lack of funds from the Budget of BiH? The second is a parliamentary initiative and is related to the previous issue of colleagues from Lozančić. So, I propose that the competent institutions and the Council of Ministers be included in the 2014 draft budget -- financing institutions of importance for BiH, with the minimum of 2010 levels. So, I don't think there's any particular reason here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18054	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18055	The Honorable Chairman. First I congratulate the RS police for finding the fast car that was stolen. And when you see the headline in the newspaper – stolen car Bog Ljubić, I said where did someone find Božo Ljubić to steal his car again. But here you are, nothing you were responsible for, but it's a great honor for the RS MUP to find the thieves quickly and return the car. So that's the efficiency of the police. And I refer that question to Parliament's Professional Service, and I have asked it several times in the last term. I know it's not them, it's not their initiatives, it's not their responsibility – but who's more betraying these halls to various organizations, when it's known who's going to be present and that they're one-national organisations and that they're going to immediately trigger animosity among others and politicians, so here I am? A few days ago, an initiative was held here in this very hall to build monuments several centuries ago to Bosnian King Kotromanić. Gentlemen, we have not ratified the Dayton Agreement here and now I am interested and will now strengthen the position of BiH monument Kotomanic. Ever since I saw the idea of a solution there shield, lilies, normally I'll be against it. What a monument, what a Kotromanić, what a story. Well, we witnessed monuments, cities, names, Broz, Tito, and everything went wrong. What a Broz. So, you're going to be more quiet. That's where I see it's going to cost 600,000 marks. Who's gonna pay for that? Ever since I saw the composition and the participants of that conference. Well, it makes sense that Srbin will be against it. Let them put it in the park upstairs I don't know about the department store, Dolac Malta, but in front of BiH institutions, where Srbin are also participating and having the right, they will never set it without our consent, so it was 20 cm or 20m high. Whatever idea solution you give. And I'm asking you to make sure that these approvals are granted. Who more has the right to use the premises of the Parliamentary Assembly? I don't mind if it will be representatives of all three peoples, and if it will be one-national organisations, such as that Mostar, please, run an organization about some children and now those children, and NGOs are interested in Ktromanić's monument. Oh, my Bog, is that you? The kids know who Kotromanić was. The children know who the Messenger is. Slavuj and see me, applaud, say this one is against or against. They know that, every politician. That's how they teach them at 13 schools. What a Kotromanić and the stories. And you intend to do more of these stories, so that they don't make any new misunderstandings among the nations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18056	Thank you. Let me just have one brief intervention. As for finding the car, I'm still not sure whether the police found it or left it because they have testified that it's not expensive, as the media have announced, because a car that is 6-7 years old and 10,000 km old is not 80,000 marks as the media has announced, but it can't be more than 25 thousand. So, then, I wouldn't be able to keep my congratulations, maybe it's left behind, because, aside from that, my personal belongings are gone. So forgive me for this one dysgression. Dear Representative Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18057	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all present. Oh, I got one of the last sessions to answer the one I didn't ask for. So I asked the exact question but I didn't get such a precise answer. So my question concerned restored households, i.e. how many households in BiH still lack electricity and I received a response regarding housing units. Living units and households where people live all the time, so most of the year, they don't have to match. Most of the time, in this case, they're not. That's why I'm asking the question again. So I asked clearly – does the Ministry have the right number of households that still do not have electricity and I did not get an answer. So I got a response to the housing units. So now I repeat the question again – How many in BiH households, where people live most of the year, i.e. where they're constantly inhabited, and they still don't have electricity? Please do not include restored houses and facilities where there is no permanent population, i.e. where people don't live most of the year. How many are in the Federation of BiH and how many in RS? So that's my question. It was about as precise as last time, but I think I wrote it even more precisely now, so I'm asking the exact answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18058	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18059	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. Recently, it has been increasingly common in the media as certain goods appear with the presence of radioactive particles, and that is true according to the health condition and cancer patients, the growing number and the younger populations. That was the case with aflatoxin, so 14 when the initiative is launched here, then the relevant institutions go into the process of testing. My question now is referred to the Council of Ministers, so they will delegate to whom it should be done – Is there in BiH at all organised and professional control of goods imported to the presence of radioactive particles? Here, first of all, I'm thinking about the import of mineral fertilisers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18060	Thank you. She's an emissary of Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18061	I thank the chairman. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia and to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to the Republic of Slovenia – I ask that after the years, from 2007 to 2013, I be taxed and delivered – how much for each of those years is the special value of the contracts that the Health Insurance, Institute and Hospital Fund has concluded with Inel-med doo Mostar? The same issue also concerns the company Medika doo Mostar and the company Meditex doo Sarajevo. Namely, behind all these companies is the same person, and the media in the RS are saying that the Health Insurance Fund is damaged by tens of millions of marks due to corrupt contracts with this company, so that the former health minister, Mr. Slobodan Stanić, is being targeted by some of the political patrons of these companies and that because of this, he was removed from the moment he started digging into these contracts. Well, let's just know what's been going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18062	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18063	Thank you, Chairman. I would ask a question to the Council of Ministers, or to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and it is about the recent inscriptions in a large number of media, related to the assignment of citizenship. That it means, a gentleman named Ante Madunić, otherwise the former consul of the Republic of Croatia in the Federal Republic of Germany was given a quick procedure or express procedure of BiH citizenship. That it was awarded to him by the Council of Ministers, and that, according to them, it did not provide the necessary documentation needed to obtain citizenship, and that because of various frauds in Dalmatia and the Republic of Croatia, Interpol's warrant was raised. And I'm saying, the Law on Getting Citizenship of BiH has made it very clear how and how and at what speed citizenship is gained. And this way, is it, I say, that Mr. Ante Madunić has gained citizenship, at that speed, citizenship is given to citizens who are of particular interest to BiH. Well, I was interested in what kind of interest Mr. Madunić was, and were there any violations of the law in the assignment of this citizenship? 15
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18064	I find that there are no more applications for new parliamentary issues. I'm closing the second item of the agenda. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, with Report of the Constitutional Commission The draft law in the first reading was adopted at the 42nd session of the House. I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Commission has already twice requested an extension of the deadline for the delivery of the report, and at the 47th session of the House, the deadline has been extended to six months, which means that it expired on 18 October 2013. 16.09.2013 The Council of Ministers also submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the BiH Criminal Law. In its opinion on the constitutional legal basis and the principles of this proposal, the Constitutional Commission proposed to suspend the legislative procedure on the draft law, which was proposed by the Joint Commission, on the grounds that the Council of Ministers of BiH had proposed a more comprehensive text of the law, which also contains the text of the previously proposed law. On 4.11.2013, the Constitutional Legal Commission submitted a report to the Bill's proposal and it was not adopted. I'm opening a debate. MP Beriz Belkić applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18066	To tell you the truth, I expected the bill promoter or the President of the Constitutional Commission to come forward and explain this situation a little bit. Although the chairman sort of brought us into it. In fact, I absolutely understand and welcome what the chairman was talking about, so that we got a better law, more comprehensive than the one that has already entered the final stage. But you see what happens, so after eight months of conducting the procedure by initiative, for every commendation of the commission, our commission, the Justice Department has thought that it reacts, so after 8 months, that it reacts, and then we come into a situation to eliminate from the procedure something that was partially resolved, it's about harmonising with directives, etc., resolving, compliance of entity laws, Brcko District, etc. We now have a new proposal, an initiative also from MPs, this time of the SBB, where amendments and additions to the Criminal Law are also proposed. So it's a system law whose amendments and additions indeed, the lawyers will know better, but I believe it is so, which requires a comprehensive analysis and handling of the process of amending and supplementing this law. So, of course I will support the position of the Constitutional Legal Commission, it is obvious that the Proposer has nothing against it, but this is an instruction that the Resorient Ministry, so the Justice Ministry has waited eight months to react, I believe it responded to the request of our Constitutional Commission that asked for an opinion etc. So, I think the Ministry has completely failed here. Thank you very much. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18067	Thank you. The Republic has a vice-presidential House of Representatives, Dr Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18068	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. This replica of mine only has this goal of perhaps explaining a little thing, so that we might in some way bring the debate down to the most necessary extent. Naiima, we discussed yesterday, therefore, this matter and all the members of the Constitutional Commission, i.e. the Committees, we agree and support the essence contained in this proposal, but since there is already a law in the procedure which more comprehensively treats the amendments to the Penal Code, which includes these things, we have decided in the way we have decided, therefore, to refrain from supporting the Council of Ministers' proposal in the normal procedure, given that at this stage of the Law in the second reading, there is no possibility that the Proposer will give up on his own. So, this is, therefore, we all support the essence, or content of this Law, but I say we have been defined to enable adoption of this House of Law, which is more comprehensive in dealing with amendments to the Penal Code, which include what the Proposer, or SBB's Club of Representatives, has proposed. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18069	I thank Mr. Ljubić. The Republic also has an MP, Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18070	Thank you, Mr. President. My replica is on the presentation of distinguished counterpart Beriz Belkić. I'm a member of the Committee of Human Rights who is proposing this law. At the time we discussed proposing this Law, we had the opinion of the Ministry of Justice which informed us that in the system, BiH's legal system there is a special commission dealing with the analysis of the implementation of criminal law and which, based on that analysis, proposes from time to time comprehensive changes and additions. Then they said that when we proposed this Law, they were already working on changes and additions. So this wasn't a motive for them to propose comprehensive (?)... have already worked, but due to the process of harmonising this procedure they lasted a little longer. They didn't mind us going with this bill as a commission, because they have come to the same solution in their work about the need to change this legislation (?). So, in the meantime of this consultation, within the professional body dealing with the enforcement of criminal law, they followed earlier than the Ministry expected, so that we were caught up in the procedure, which was obviously known by the Constitutional Commission, which therefore required an extension of the deadlines for its statement so that we would not be in a position to make three, let's say, changes or two, unnecessary, and this is the same matter. Thank you very much. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18071	Thank you. Ambassador Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18072	Mr. Lozančić is absolutely right, but my intention was to avoid these situations, so simply avoid these situations. We have had seven months in the procedure of this proposal, which includes both the commission phase and the agenda etc. And I'm motivated, here's a good proposal we have an amendment and a supplement by the SBB MPs. Are we going to be in a situation again that this body that follows the law of criminal law, these laws of criminal law, that in a few months, when the first reading may pass, let us tell us -- we're working on that, too, we're going to introduce that kind of provision into Criminal Law, so around these foreigners, and so, going to the side of the war, and then we're going to get back into the situation to withdraw. So I just had an intention and a desire to try some kind of synchronization. So, the promoters, in my opinion, in order to remove this kind of thing, should inform the resolution ministry, or deliver to him the proposal they intend to make, which they intend to put in the procedure, so they will get information on whether the ministry on that plan has done something to keep things from being doubled, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18073	Thank you. Replica, MP Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18074	Well, I wouldn't call this a replica. It's an explanation to Mr. Belkić. In fact, the Human Rights Commission has sent this proposal, and we have people from the Impact Group to fight human trafficking, because our country has lost a rating that it had before for a simple reason because we have not brought our legislation into line with conventions that we are signatories to. And then what happened? When we referred this proposal turned out to be our own criminal laws, since here, in the jurisdiction of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, it remains only a criminal act of trafficking of people of international character, and the rest goes to lower prosecutions, then a legal vacuum occurred that entities, in this case the Federation, did not change their criminal law. If we had adopted this Law then, would we have had one cavity so that some works could not be treated legally or processed at all. And for that reason, this law came into practice. Certainly the Ministry of Justice has a responsibility not to have done this before, which was not co-ordinated by the entity ministries, because the Strike Group has made changes and additions to all laws and entity and these and sent to people and told them – let's do this. Unfortunately, I have to say that the Department of Justice has been very passive in all of this, and I personally accept that this law, let's say that let's take him down today to get him out of the process, because this law that finally sent us the Justice Department includes some more broader changes and additions. Thank you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18075	Thank you. MP Nermina Ćemalovi, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18076	Mr. Chairman. Let me say that in the SDP, we agree with the negative opinion of the Commission, the Constitutional Commission, on the very basis that both laws are good, and what Mrs Pandurević said, what we are, here I am speaking as a member of the Commission on Human Rights, and offered this Parliament, and this is also about human trafficking, is in the proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Law offered by the Council of Ministers, with the fact that this law offered by the Council of Ministers is more extensive and treat other issues, it is more comprehensive. And these other issues are like criminal acts of forced disappearance, then defining criminal acts of torture, money laundering, etc. Therefore, it is important for us to pass laws and I am sure with this Law, which has been proposed by the Council of Ministers, that we will be able to complete this complete law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18077	Thank you. Ambassador Šefik Džaferović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18078	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I thought everyone here in the House was clear about what this was all about, and that's why I didn't need to get up right at the beginning to talk about anything about the Commission's report, but here after the debate it's obvious that I still need to say a few sentences. So this is the only possible way to get us out of this situation. He is not dear to any of us in the Commission, I believe that he is not fond of any of us here at the Presave House because we all think that this matter, therefore, is a matter of crime that regulates human trafficking issues, should be arranged in the way that this foresees, among other things, this Law proposed by the Joint Committee on Human Rights. But this is phase two, so the second reading, and the proposer doesn't have the opportunity to withdraw the law and thus make it easier for us, the business opportunity, so there isn't, and that's how it makes it easier for us to process. So, it is only practical that Parliament accepts a negative report from the Commission, although we are all for these solutions, and members of the Commission, and I assume a complete House of Representatives, that we would be in a position to consider in the first reading, and he has passed the first reading procedure on the Commission, the Council of Ministers' Law that regulates this matter, but also some other issues outside of this matter. And this is the only reason why we have, for procedural reasons, made this report the way it is. And you saw by the vote that none of us were for or against, we were all abstentions, so that was the Commission's unique position. I don't think there's anything else we could have done here as Parliament when it comes to this law, because my colleague Pandurević explained well today why we waited here for a few months. So, there was a danger, this is not about a different arrangement of some matter, this is about deregulation of certain crimes in the BiH Criminal Law that must be regulated by entity criminal laws. And if 19 happens, and before that is regulated by entity laws, there will be a legal gap, and because of the mandatory application of a member of the mild law, because the law, therefore, is the fundamental principle of the law applicable to that law which was in force at the time of the execution of the criminal offence, then the new one, since there are no such crimes, would be easier for those against whom any procedure is conducted and then would be applied to those persons, and we would, if there are such cases, so I don't know, practically free all those who are in that position. And I think that Parliament did well to wait and all this argument was taken very seriously and everyone respected it. RS has done its job, the Brcko District has finished its job, the Federation of BiH has done so in the House of Representatives, but the House of Peoples has not done so, I have information that this thing is being done again on the relation of the Government – the Parliament of the Federation of BiH. So, I ask that today we support this negative Commission report, this way we get out of this situation, we get the Criminal Law already at the next session, it is prepared for the session and we will decide on it and of course support it. As for what Mr Belkić was talking about, this is a very serious issue of these frequent attempts to amend the BiH Criminal Law. Any amendment to the BiH Criminal Law requires intervention, since things must be harmonised and synchronised and other criminal laws that exist in BiH, I mean entities and the Brcko District of BiH and I don't know if there is any more a working expert working group at the Council of Ministers and should work to monitor the application of new criminal legislation in BiH. If it's not active, I'm asking the Minister of Justice to activate it immediately. Without that group, it is not possible to amend the Criminal Law, nor the Criminal Procedure Act, nor some other very complex and professional laws in BiH, and the need for them to change will appear. It should be the basis for the activities of all and the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. For these reasons, we have not yet, because the group has not reviewed the text, the consolidated text of the BiH Criminal Law, has been cleansed by the Criminal Law of BiH. Among other things, we advocate new solutions for these reasons. And, therefore, this is not about the irrelevant issue of a very important and very important issue, and I call on the minister of justice – if there is a group to put into office, unless there is some extension of its mandate, this must be monitored in BiH, without that group, it is difficult to react. As far as the amendments are concerned, everyone has the right to propose amendments to the law. We will pay every change to the attention, but I also ask the Council of Ministers, therefore that working group, when it comes to the Criminal Law, to do their job and to help Parliament. Parliament does not have sufficient expertise in professional services, nor in these benches here, which are necessary to change the Criminal Law in quality, unless these knowledge has been tested and included in these phases that I have talked about before. First of all, on the basis of all this, and this is an expert group composed of judges, so the people who do this, the professor of the university, are not going anywhere in the world to seriously change and intervene when it comes to criminal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18079	I thank Ambassador Džaferović. I find that there are no more reported within this point. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, 20 Ad. 4. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to Reach Consent on Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on Non-Work Days at Religious Holidays in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The House College has not reached agreement on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. There's no discussion here. We're going to the fifth point, Ad. 5. Commission Report College on Efforts to Reach Consent on 2012 Annual Financial Report of the Public Administration Reform Fund, Material of the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18085	Thank you very much. I also felt as a Member of the Commission and as a Parliamentarian that, regardless of the work and detailed consideration of the work of the Ministry of Defence by the Joint Defence and Security Commission, there are elements that should be known to both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly and that, if there are matters that need to be taken certain measures to be taken in this way and agreed on, that is to say, those conclusions and adopted. A few words before I remain in this opinion on the Commission's work report. It is likely that few MPs know that today the Armed Forces, based on presidential decisions, were to have 10,000 professional soldiers and have a reserve of 2,000. Today, that is, we are now talking about the situation on 31.12.2012, the Armed Forces were supposed to be numbering 10.636, and the fill-up was at 9.758. What's the unusual information in this? BiH is a country where the number of officers is higher than the number of soldiers. So let's say, I'm talking about fillout now, I'm not talking about formation because there's this discrepancy, 1,978 officers and 2,962 sub-offices are filled, which gives a total of 4,940 officers and officers, which is less than 229 of what the formation predicts. To this number 4,940 officers and officers, we must add the number of soldiers of 4.151. So 4,151 commands 4,940 officers and officers. It is the largest budget user who spends more than 300 million marks a year and that is the budget user who uses 90% of the budget exclusively for personal use. So, no training, training can only be if we get paid from other sources, no equipment. The BiH Armed Forces still today have only what they received from the former entity armies. And with a large, heavy amount of surplus weapons, burdened with the ambition to deal with sales, which is certainly something behind which the BiH institutions will not allow the Armed Forces, as they do nowhere, to do so in BiH either. There are several large issues on which there is no political agreement, but the defence ministry has entertained this, though it cannot answer the question. The document, which 22 should have done seven years ago, is called the Defence Review. It should define the size and structure of the Armed Forces in the future. And we know that this document has been working for years, and we've been getting information for years that it's going to be tomorrow, and in fact it's clear that there are different sightings of the Armed Forces in this country. We know that these sightings are very different from the notion that they don't need any armed forces to the point of view that they need limited, well-equipped and well-trained, or that they have certain political options that they need very diverse and large Armed Forces, right, nobody says how much, from where to pay. To our question, at the NATO headquarters in Brussels, how many Armed Forces should be, the explicit answer is – as much as the country can afford. So there's no one who can say these armed forces should be that big. If you have, or to provide budget funds or find other sources and there's nothing else. Whether the Armed Forces are able to respond to the demands made before them, when it comes to the Armed Forces in peace, which means primarily to train themselves for what they are tasked with, or to specialize in peacekeeping missions or what is even more important to help the local population in the case of natural disasters. These are questions that the Commission has never been able to get the final answer. Whenever the fires appear, we see one or two helicopters flying. When asked, if we have 40 helicopters that are in different conditions, unusable, usable, so that, we can hardly say which is correct and what is true, then it's usually said – can't participate any more helicopters because we lack the clear. That's what helicopters wear to shut down. It would be hard to believe that, or it is difficult to defend the view that because of the lack of buckets, there is no more intensive approach to the ceasefire, and for example for years the Ministry of Defence of 10 million remained unused. That's why Parliament should think twice about it. Are we going to have these armed forces that are going down, that have countless tasks they can't carry out? The brightest part of the Armed Forces is called the mine unit. We destroyed the demining unit in a way that we provided through the process of public procurement and the corruption ambitions of certain people who participated in this to buy the worst vests and viziers used by the deminers entering the minefields and made it impossible for this process to run in the way it was intended and how we boast that we could do so. Where are we with the surplus destruction? The presidency has precisely defined how surpluses can be resolved, meaning sales, or donation or destruction. Of the two methods of destruction, open detonation and decomposition, at this point, the favored open detonation that is being done in Glamoc and performed by the American firm Sterling is being favored. In no way have they changed in non-destruction as the Ministry of Defence has done in its own time, because those rules and procedures have not been taken as well. That is why there is a riot in the local population, and 120 Glamic residents are preparing to sue the defence ministry. So what will be the amount and value the ministry will have to pay for the damage to the facilities, it's a special story. As far as this is concerned, so much is said about this immovable property that is a condition for the activation of the Action Plan. The other day we were at the Ministry and received final information that of the 63 objects only 30 objects had passed the documentation that could provide the booking. But it's not safe here either, given the size of the plot. It is known that on Manjača the plot of the site held by the Armed Forces is greater than 15 km and that the existing units certainly do not need so many plots. It's not the only 23, there's a lot of them to return, pitch, it means to cut off one piece, keep it as much as the Armed Forces needs, and the rest to the local communities. There's a lot of stuff open at the Department of Defense. The last time we saw that some things had started to change, however, there is still no tangible evidence that these changes are going in the right direction. But this Parliament could launch a discussion on the subject -- what we want from the Armed Forces, how they should look, how much this amount of money this country is investing and what we get for it. Whether or not other NATO integration activities are taking place, whether the end is just the end of the story of things that we need to fulfill on that path, as many say. So, there are a number of issues to be raised within the Armed Forces, and I think that the Parliamentary Assembly should deal with defence issues every six months, because it is a large budget user and every idea, or any conclusion that would help to bring these things together, would be in favour of all the citizens of this country. So here's where you got our opinion, you got the conclusions. Each of these conclusions is accompanied by a number of activities carried out by the Joint Defence and Security Commission. We follow regularly how these conclusions are fulfilled. The Department of Defense has made an action plan based on which we monitor their performance of these tasks. So anyone who thinks he's missing information, that he might be able to help us with some quality information in this case would be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18086	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, vice-president, correcting the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18087	Thank you. I refuse to agree with the fact that my colleague Majkić said that we are here to blame that, after public procurement, our deminers have misfitted themselves. Because I think some things are contradictory here. We, here I am personally and this Parliament, voted on several occasions on this law. The intensity was to get supplies and get all the talk of demining from the Demining Unit to the Ministry. Contradicatingly, donors have not given up in BiH, on the contrary, made more donations than some serious countries. We were visiting Canada which, you'll agree, is one serious country judicial (?) It's not so easy to make donations if she thinks she's having an abuse with them. On the other hand, no one in this country has said that if there is abuse in connection with public procurement and irregularities in the process, it should not be answered. Transferring from one segment to another will not solve the issue of corruption and illegality in public procurement in this country, and the process of demining itself that progresses year by year in terms of giving larger donations gives them the right for those to remain in this form as it has so far. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18088	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18089	This isn't a replica, more of an explanation. We didn't get along well, maybe I didn't say. In BiH, two institutions are responsible for the demining of BH MAC and the Ministry of Defence. So, in my speech, I didn't just talk about BH MAC and the way he does demining and financing by... the fund in Slovenia. I'm only talking about the deminings that carry out the armed forces. So, just about that. Public procurement refers to the Ministry of Defence which has carried out in one missing way and has made it impossible for the mines to enter minefields. That's what I was talking about. So, that's, that's what everybody knows about this problem, we don't just know how we're going to get out, because the bad equipment that's been purchased still stands in warehouses, obviously no one can bring it back, because there's come what's been asked for at the price that's in place for quality goods. So we didn't mean the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18090	Thank you. Next for the discussion, distinguished counterpart Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18091	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here, we have before us, at the Commission's request and the Commission's decision, a report on the work of the BiH Ministry of Defence for 2012 with conclusions made by the Commission when considering this report. I must point out that the Commission has accepted, or received, this report, which means that it is in some way a euphemism to accept the 2012 Defence Ministry's work report. I would like to say that, reading this report, anyone who participated, in particular from the Defence and Security Commission, we can say that, in line with the legal powers of the BiH Ministry of Defence as an authority of the administration, in 2012, the Ministry of Defence carried out its tasks relating to programme activities, to NATO accession activities, to the completion of previous reform activities, and that the documents that have long been pending, the review of the defence and the plan for the modernisation of the Armed Forces of BiH have been sent to the next instance, which is the BiH Presidency which has not yet delivered its opinion on these documents. Working to carry out its legal responsibilities, the Ministry of Defence had professional support from NATO, EUFOR and NATO in Brussels, according to tasks that should have been realised in the previous year. If we look back from the Labour Report, which the Ministry of Defence has a large budget, has a large number of employees and this report would not be, this is a compressed report consisting of a few dozen pages, it would certainly have been if it had described all the activities, was much more extensive and much more data would have been shown. But here, in this shortened version of 25 that we also got as the Defence and Security Commission, we could read that 117 activities were contained, of which 71% were realised. Why only 71%, we are given answers because they were on temporary funding in practically half a year in... which caused, in 2012, because we are talking about the 2012 Report, which caused the problems we heard about here from the previous presentation. Then, in order to arrange the system and to work on the better and work of the ministry, nine regulations and instructions were made, and 10 were in the process of making. Then, civil-military co-operation activities are also important and expressed, regardless of the problems, the operational problems that arise in the realization, 550 different activities were done by the Armed Forces for civil structures in BiH, starting with the demining already mentioned, then from the post of their equipment for civil institutions, transport assistance, then assistance in elemental disasters and accidents. I'm just going to stop here for a second and say that in sophisticated production where you have the highest level of quality instruments and devices, you have to have parallel two equipment that will work. One to be in control, one to be in function. In accordance with these requirements, we do not have time to elaborate, and any means used by the Ministry of Defence, in particular means of transport that require special controls and are subject to special arrangements such as helicopters used in case and means of transport, in the case of funds in elemental accidents, shall not be put into operation without appropriate checks. And always a part of those funds in every society and every system must be in control and one part in use. Therefore, it is so everywhere in the world, and probably we cannot skip those technical provisions either. When it comes to co-operation with NATO, the defence ministry within the framework of an individual partner action plan has fulfilled its obligations. The implementation of the plan and the revision process was in line with NATO. In particular, the positive and significant role BiH Armed Forces as part of the defence ministry played in the UN observation mission in the Congo and the international assistance force in the Republic of Afghanistan. Then co-operation with defence ministries and the armed forces of other countries with which agreements exist. When it comes to training and training, it could not be said that it is some neglected part of the activities of the Ministry of Defence if it is taken into account that 1,777 training is planned, and it is realised, therefore, that members of the Armed Forces will pass the training, and 91% is realised, which means that a small number due to delays or financial problems has not been realised. When it comes to immovable and mobile property, here it seems to me that everyone in this country knows that we have a number of perspective military locations of 63 and a non-perspective 46. In Federation 35, in RS 11, but to cost these unspeakable locations, military sites cost the Ministry of Defence because they must provide and spend budgets, and because of problems elsewhere and not in the Ministry of Defence, it was not realised. The resolution of surplus weapons and ammunition is a permanent task due to inherited weapons and ammunition pillars that need to be substituted, and around now we have come to only internal resources to solve these problems, i.e. we only have the resources of the Ministry of Defence, and we have abolished those other ones used during the previous period, i.e. commercial companies that could help solve these problems more quickly. However, the deboration is preferable compared to the 26 detonations that need to be completely avoided in some subsequent period. One major possibility for the reconstruction of arms and ammunition in the Armed Forces, i.e. the Ministry of Defence, is the empowerment and development and the great results that BiH's dedicated production has achieved lately, and they should be the source of, as in all normal countries, that they are the source from which the Armed Forces of BiH will be equipped and that not only for the purpose industry, economic relations will be achieved by selling their products outside the country, but rather by being primarily in the function of the BiH Armed Forces, or the Ministry of Defence. And finally, there might still be talk about how the Ministry of Defence was doing its legitimately envisaged role, but let me say, therefore, that the activities were launched, a series of activities in overcoming the irregularities we heard about from the previous discussion, and that it was just about removing, or sanctioning what was not well done in the previous period. In fact, it is obvious that the Law on Public Procurement is a major problem for all, and especially for those who make public procurement in the Ministry of Defence sector, so, in terms of will and work of the Ministry of Defence, it is necessary to make changes to the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18092	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18093	I don't want 10 minutes for sure. So, the Commission's intention, the president explained it, something Nermina said about it, so I'm not too optimistic, no matter what the House of Representatives today will support, I suppose our conclusions, which we're practically just looking for information about the most important issues that the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces cannot handle alone, and they need some kind of support from other institutions as well. And our conclusions that we have adopted today have not been quite the seriousness of their implementation. But the Commission did indeed believe that, unanimously, we decided that the problem of such a nature and so important and that segment of our society, and the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence, was a significant item in the overall financing by the state budget, and also of general importance, and we felt that it would be good for Parliament to be informed and nothing else and, of course, to support what we are doing in the Commission. It is certain that the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces cannot resolve these enormous surpluses alone, nor these demining problems, nor interventions in the case of elementary disasters, because there are a number of things that depend on others. So I'm finishing the discussion in a way that I'm asking you to support what the Joint Defence and Security Committee has intended, so to inform you and to support these intentions to continue to deal with all these issues that we have raised here. And here, I also use the opportunity to invite the Ministry of Defense, or the Armed Forces, to report for the purpose of finding these unexploded grenades in the vicinity of Pristina for a simple reason because 27 people will indirectly or directly bring it into contact with the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, because it is simply about grenades used for the needs of the Armed Forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18094	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Report on the work of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to determine the legality of the conduct of competent state authorities in the event of the detention and detention of Šemsudin Mehmedović, MP at the House of Representatives The Commission's investigation report on its work delivered 31.10. I would like to remind you that we extended the mandate of this Commission until 7 November at last session of the House. You got the report. I'm opening a debate. President of the Commission, dear colleague Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18096	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am actually proposing that we postpone the debate on this agenda point for the next session from simple technical issues of the protection of classified information. In fact, SIPA has graduated from the level of "secret" in its basic document, which is called the Report of Conduct in the case of our colleague Mehmedović. This is sufficient reason for all correspondence, i.e. discussions to be closed. Since we haven't provided today, so the closed session, here I propose for the practicality of the next debate being, that the debate be held at the next session as the first or last item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18097	Are there any other suggestions regarding this agenda point? If I didn't, I'd put the motion to a vote, if that's okay with you. So, the proposal is to postpone the debate on this item of the agenda and ensure that the conditions are discussed at the next session on this item of the agenda at the closed session. Because some documents related to this agenda point have a degree of secrecy. And I ask Parliament if it agrees to adopt the conclusion that the debate for the next session is being postponed, and I suggest that this be the last item of the agenda, if you agree. Do you agree or we'll make a deal later? _________(?) We agree. 28 Okay. You can vote now. For 24, 16 from the Federation, 8 from the RS. It wasn't against three abstentions. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. We're going to the 10th item of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Secretary of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18101	Here's to undermining you. So, before we talk about this, I just have to say on behalf of the Ad hoc Commission, because I was the president of that Commission, that we did everything in accordance with the law, the sublaws, the regulations, that we sent those 14 names as planned, or 29 envisaged by the Law. And there stands our way of the Commission appointed by this Parliament. What we have here today is, you yourself said by the chairman, the Council of Ministers proposal, which we are likely to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18102	Thank you. Dear colleague Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The story of the Regulatory Agency for Communications begins long before this calls on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, a bad story. It has always been said that we expect this body to be independent, that it works in the interest of all that is equally important for BiH citizens, that it works transparently and that it makes decisions that will improve the situation in the field it deals with. We all know very well how long the Regulatory Agency, its Director and the Council have been out of office and how many decisions have been made in the final line of their illegal mandates by some of the decisions that were bad for public broadcasters in BiH, which are in the interest of who knows what circles and lobbies and which were not what we expected from the Council of the Communications Regulatory Agency. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly has finally made the right and good decision and decided to end this agency and this Council, it has made a decision against which there were certain votes and circles because it wanted to maintain this poor status quo. And we were all hoping that by appointing the Ad hoc Commission, which has done very well its part of the task, because the Parliamentary Assembly has opened the door to address this poor situation at the Regulatory Agency for Communications which should play a significant role in the next times in the process of digitising public broadcasters in BiH and everything that stands before us. So, the Ad hoc commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has done a good job. 29 candidates who met the requirements have performed interviews individually with each of the members of this committee. Individually, members of the commission scored each of those who joined the interviews. And we got a ranking list, a ranking list that was sent with the names of 14 candidates to the Council of Ministers, that ultimately, according to its ingenuity, decides on what 7 names will be sent to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for confirmation. And what did we get? We have received a request from the Council of Ministers to violate the laws passed by this Parliamentary Assembly. To violate the Law on Gender Equality, to violate the provisions of the Communication Law, to violate the signed conventions on non-discrimination and human rights that BiH has taken over as a country. Will the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH really do that? I'm sure he won't. I am convinced that, as we had the determination and strength to make a decision that we would stand by irregularities in the work of the Regulatory Agency for Communications and the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications, that we would also tell the Council of Ministers to revise its decision and that, if nothing else, respects the results of the Ad hoc Commission's interviews. According to these results, one woman, one but one very valuable, was in another position of the rank list. And why isn't she among the seven appointed? Why, once again, after the appointment of the Council of Ministers, which makes this other decision, is allowed to violate the Law on Gender Equality of BiH and the right to equal opportunities? I ask the question – are we really going to allow in the Parliamentary Assembly that, even though the Union for a Better Future Club voted against this 30-year-old in which there were no women, we will also confirm the decision of such a male Council of Ministers that women will not participate in the work of the Regulatory Affairs Agency in BiH? So I call on the Parliamentary Assembly to return this list to the Council of Ministers and ask it to comply with the laws which have been violated in its adoption. And, Mr. Chairman, let me say, I, of course, very much hold to the fact that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the House of Representatives, must respect its Rules of Procedure and that it should not be violated, as we explained at the beginning of today's session. But I also think that if we don't break the Rules of Procedure, we certainly shouldn't break the laws we've passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18104	Thank you, colleagues. A little suggestion, if you'll excuse me. First, we should get what you're proposing in writing, secondly, to see if we're breaking the law by proposing to revise the list or we should reject the list, and then by law, they're proposing a new list. So let's see these two modes that are more correct and how we can do it. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, a replica, so you will.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18105	Just one small addition, this is not a replica, so to no one, one addition to what colleague Dervos was talking about and the question to you, so the sekretarijat, the College – were the proposals we had so far before they came into the plenary debate discussed by the relevant parliamentary committees? As far as I know, they are. If so, then why isn't this proposal sent by the College to the competent commission and then came here to the House? What's the problem? What's the hurry? So give us an answer to that question, because it is also an important element, I would say, the legal conduct of the institutions in resolving this issue. I don't think it's right for us to have it here before the committee in charge, the Commission for Transport and Communications has expressed its position.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18106	Thank you. This is a question that we will consider at the College, given that the law has been amended and this is for the first time that this proposal has come here to Parliament and we were not sure what we should do, which does not mean that your suggestion is not in place. Dear colleague Ismeta Dervoz, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18107	It's not a replica, Mr. Chairman, just a little supplement. I referred yesterday in a written form of an initiative sent to the Council of Ministers to do exactly what I was talking about in the debate. Thank you. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18108	Thank you. Dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18109	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I'm not going to talk about procedural reasons why this shouldn't be a mandatory or binding item of the agenda today, because you've made the secretary interpret the Rules of Procedure in your name very much, I'm not going to say it outright, but something similar happened in the interpretation of the Law on Police Officers by SIPA management, so what happened happened. But what's there? Today this point is on the agenda, because if the law provides for a possibility it doesn't oblige you to do so. I wasn't thrilled when the Communication Act was changing in terms, so there should be 30% less gender, but here it's obvious that you don't respect that Law either. If we brought him in, then he should be respected, which is what colleague Dervoz was talking about. But I want to talk about other questions. Firstly, the committee responsible is the Commission for Transport and Communications, you have the majority as a parliamentary majority and in this Commission and it is quite logical that you could have had a positive view of the Commission, but it is obvious that you are in a hurry to have a situation where you can discipline BiH's media space, in your own distinctive and satisfying way. But please don't break the law, it's not in conflict of interest, don't violate the Communication Act, don't violate the Rules of Procedure either. But here, you say you're not breaking because you're capable of interpreting the Rules of Procedure. I will point out a few things, here on this one page, which sets out a solution for the appointment of members of the BiH Regulatory Agency, which has two members, we have seven proposed candidates, or a list of candidates on whom we should present ourselves today, at least 5 of these are in conflict of interest and could not be found on this list of candidates, starting with the fact that the directors of government organisations closely related to the Regulatory Agency for Communications, or the media space, until they do not meet even the minimum formal law of the conditions provided by us as legislators. Therefore, I think that this proposal, or list of candidates, should be returned to the competent commission to examine this in detail and to give its position to whatever it may be. You have a majority you can vote on, and it wouldn't be good if we were making such legal violence, so to speak, over the laws that we have brought here in this House. Because if we introduce the practice of Parliament's work that we do not respect the laws that we have passed, then I do not see the purpose at all why we would sit here and spend so much on BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18110	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Milorad Živković. Here you go. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18111	It's a replica or an incorrect quote. We didn't make the secretary do anything here. He read Rule 65, who specifically stated what a mandatory point was. This is a mandatory point, and now that my colleagues have arrived, I could consult them, in this case, and you'll remember most of the cases when a ranking list is proposed, it doesn't go to the commission. Let me know sometime when we've sent any commission. You will also Dobićete from the College a proposal for next time for independent committees and appeal approvals, should this go to the commission? The commission has therefore already done what it thought was parliamentary, the one that was formed for it. There was no need, and here is the interpretation of the Kolegijum, that it goes to any commission. So what do you think the commission is thinking negatively, so here we are discussing the negative opinion of the commission, etc., etc. This is where Parliament will give its judgment on this issue. So these comparisons with SIPA and working here in Parliament, I don't think they stand, I think you're burdened, to get out of that film, will be solved in the way the state institutions work here, not any statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18112	Thank you. Replica, MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18113	Well, look, I'll just refresh your memory a little bit. We have identified as a competent commission and a ranking of members of the Board of Directors of BHRT. So, we had a list of candidates, we didn't choose or prefer any member who was proposed on the candidate list, but as the committee responsible, we said that we support the list or we don't support it, of course, by keeping an eye on law enforcement. So, in these cases, we were the committee responsible, I don't know why now, if you think that enough of the Ad hoc Commission's position is formed to choose candidates who meet the requirements laid down by law, then that's another thing and you can interpret the Rules of Procedure and the Law. It is, of course, your right as a parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18114	Thank you. Replica, MP Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18115	I don't want to, so I'm going deeper into these polemics, but I simply have to tell my colleagues Mehmedović about the conflict of interest, as you said. I don't think you're right about the conflict of interest. You said just now that five candidates are in conflict of interest. The moment someone is elected, he must resign to one of these two functions. Just for the sake of correctness. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18116	Thank you. Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Supporting the presentation of distinguished colleagues Dervos on gender equality and the choice of candidates and this list that we have received from 7 proposed candidates, and not to forget, supporting the natural exposure of the esteemed deputy Mr. Živković. The list is a list. The people... said "it was born, rock it". But the kind of list we all had, so we chose 15 candidates, not the other, so we chose the 17th from the list, not the third and fourth, etc., but it can't go through this list without the main list. Whoever got us this agency, this is a lame agency, and it's well known as the RAC. This is the BiH cancer system. They hired there, people brought their own, pay good, 7-year-old director illegal this one. Well, personally, I personally made four or five complaints or complaints to that agency about some media, never responding from anyone. Well, that's one center of alienated power with great salaries that doesn't suit anyone, and now who they're important, and now I need to think about whether I'm going to vote for candidate number 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 14 that have been reported or this list proposed by the Council of Ministers. I don't care about any list, I don't care about this agency. And I'm building right now, and I'm going to vote, of course, because it's my business duty, because I never do. But if I were to ask myself, this RAC would be removed immediately, and I would be the first in the world to cure cancer. So, removed the RAC, one agency eliminated from the system, because it was unnecessary. And she only punished the media in RS, here to defend that TV BN that's been gone for seven years. As soon as there's some program on BN TV, something like a pro-Serbian, they immediately get... and maximum punishment. Well, when they don't have them on the wallpaper, the maximum penalty for RS television. Never anyone from the Federation. Now, this list we choose today will continue the same way they do and the disease called cancer continues in BiH through this agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18118	I find that there are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to agenda 12, Ad. 12. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to prepare the amendment and addition of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Law – Proposer: College of the Parliamentary House of BiH I remind you that today, in line with the content of this conclusion, it is necessary to appoint members of the Interresor Working Group from the House of Representatives, and you have all received the proposal. So from House of Representatives three. Here I now propose Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Let me hear the other suggestions. 34 The letter of Ismet Dervoz enlisted for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18120	I called before for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18121	Here's the word of Vice-President Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18122	I'm proposing to Nik Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18123	She's an emissary of Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18124	Well, I'm not suggesting anyone, but I'm saying something else that the SDS Club thinks this is completely pointless. We had an Interresor working group here that worked, worked, worked, that eventually she didn't do anything. So then we had a SNSD-SDP agreement that turned out I don't know what, so again we didn't have any changes and supplements. So there's a council of ministers whose job it is to do this. It seems to me that, in fact, behind the promoter here, behind whoever is proposing this is one other intention, which is that we don't get amendments and additions to the Electoral Law and that next year we don't have an election.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18125	Ismet Dervoz has come forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18126	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18127	He's giving up. Ambassador Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have all witnessed that one working group that has been formed is therefore from parliamentarians and here in this Parliament and that everything is practically clear, that the commission is no longer powerful, and no other will have further progress. And that's why I think I agree to make a commission, but I think this Article 5 concludes that by February 1, 2014, it ends, I think that this commission should only meet once, which in a short time within a month, if it can, if there's something...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18129	February 1st is an old date, you've got the benches by February 28th's decision. 02. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18130	Then I am, but mostly saying that this commission or commission, so it can meet once that, if there are any additional political arrangements or disagreements to do so, because there's no point in pushing this forward, not in the next year, and I think we should do it as soon as possible, minors in this month to meet the commission to have the law, amendments and supplement the electoral law here in Parliament. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18131	Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, I apologize to Vice-President Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18132	I'm sorry, I'm still having trouble getting up because of my back, so once I'm up. My colleagues and fellow MPs. As co-proposer, so as a member of the College for the formation of this Interresor Working Group, of course I support its formation. However, as worded here in the debate that we have already had an Interresor Working Group in the previous term, etc., this proposal does not actually collude with this, I simply believe that it should be analysed and introduced and, I say, the results of the Interresor Working Group and everywhere where proposals or solutions are shown to be acceptable should be applied, as this Interresor Working Group has also made significant efforts. She has consulted with a wide range of experts, with the NGO sector, etc., and that will only make it easier for this new Interresor group, which we hope today to form to finish the job on time, which means by February 28th. And why that term? So because after that term, and by the end of the period when we need to have all, so to speak, the legal infrastructure for the implementation of the elections remains for 3 months to complete these necessary additional acts, rules, etc. So I think there's plenty of time to do the job and enough time to finish it by that deadline before the election is called. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18133	I thank my colleague Ljubić. The word has an MP, Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18134	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the SNSD Club, I propose Mr Milorad Živković as a member of the Interresor Working Group. This paper should not be prejudged, I believe that this Interresor Working Group will agree on all issues that can be reached by consensus and referred to before this deadline. First of all, this concerns the question of what is the significance of the assumption(?) to hold elections next year. Thank you. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18135	Thank you. Ambassador Darko Babalj has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18136	The conclusion is that this interresor committee that worked, worked, did and made a fortune, paid back the money, or money that she took, and didn't do anything, should we appoint a new one.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18137	Therefore, all conclusions are delivered in writing so that Parliament can be declared. I find that there are no more reports. I'm closing the debate. The college decided it was a vote at 2:00. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, we approach the vote on agenda points with the 56th session of the House of Representatives. Before we approach the vote on the first item of the agenda, I remind you that you have been given the conclusion of a narrow college, i.e. an interpretation of the very act of voting where certain things have been further explained that there would be no misunderstanding in the next period. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – adoption of the minutes of the 55th session of the House of Representatives. We're voting on the adoption of the record. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have enough both general and entity majority – 37 for, 0 versus, 0 abstentions. It all fits, so we adopted the record. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, with the Report of the Constitutional Legal Commission. We're voting on the Constitutional Commission Report. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority – 37 for, 0 versus, 0 abstentions. I find that we have adopted the Constitutional Commission Report. 37 We move to a vote on the proposal for the conclusion of Senad Šepić's MP within this agenda. Please prepare for the vote, you've all got the conclusion on the bench. Vote now. The conclusion came to a general majority – 22 for, 7 against, 5 abstentions, however, there is no necessary entity majority. Shall we go straight to the second round? The subsequent alignment of members of the College. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Commission Report of the College of Efforts to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on Non-Work Days at the time of the religious holidays in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're voting on the Constitutional Commission's opinion in the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now, of course opinion is negative. So this Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission has been accepted. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Commission Report of the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Annual Financial Report of the Public Administration Reform Fund for 2012. We vote in the second round of the Annual Financial Report. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I find that we have adopted, we have both a general and an entity majority, in the second round this financial report. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Report from the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for the conclusions of the SDA Club for the discussion on the Information on the violation of the BiH Constitution in Republika Srpska regarding the right to a national group of courses in Konjević Polje and other schools – promoters: MPs from the SDA Club. We vote only in the second round on the proposal for the conclusions of the MPs from the SDA Club. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that in the second round, this proposal has not received the necessary entity majority – 13 against the RS. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mirsad Mešić on the proposal for a conclusion on the extension of the mandate of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to determine the legality of the conduct of the competent state authorities in the event of the detention and detention of Šemsudin Mehmedović, MP in the House of Representatives. Only in the second round on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mirsad Mešić. 38 Please prepare to vote. Vote now. It seems to me that the conclusion got the required majority, there's no 10 against, so this conclusion in the second round was accepted. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – BiH Ministry of Defence 2012 report, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. We vote first on receiving knowledge of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. We have the necessary and general and entity majority, so we adopted this. We are now voting on a proposal for conclusions from the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, a total of seven conclusions. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I realize we have the necessary and general and entity majority and we've adopted all the conclusions. When it comes to point nine, we delayed the debate here. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Appointing the Secretary of the Parliamentary House of BiH. We vote on the appointment of Dragoljub Reljić as secretary of the House of Representatives. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I'm saying 21 for, 12 against, 4 abstentions. I find that we have chosen Mr. Dragoljub Reljić's secretary. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – The appointment of members of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency Council, the material of the BiH Council of Ministers. Before we vote on the appointment of members of the RAK Council, we will first vote on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Zijad Jagodić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that this proposal has not received the necessary majority – 8 for, 19 against, 10 abstentions. We are now voting on the appointment of members of the RAC Council of BiH, so seven total people. Please prepare to vote Vote now. 22 for, 13 against, 2 abstentions. I find that the House of Representatives...
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18139	No, no, no Federation. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2013-11-05-1.u18140	And there's no Federation, yes, yes, yes. So, at the request of the SDP Club, we repeat the vote. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I realize that we have a general majority, and let's see the entity, we also have an entity and I realize that the House of Representatives has chosen members of the RAC Council. We move to item 12 of the agenda – Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the preparation of amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law – Proposer: College of the House of Representatives. First we vote on adopting a proposal for a conclusion for, and for members from the House of Representatives, so we propose: Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović, Niko Lozančić and Milorad Živković. After that, we will also vote on the conclusion of MP Darko Babalj. So first we vote on the conclusion and these names. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. At the request of the SNSD club, we will repeat the vote. Please prepare for the vote, just apologize and let me know when we can get to the floor. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] He can't if he tells you 20 at the same time and you don't listen to what we're talking about, you can't even know what we're talking about. So we're voting on a conclusion containing these three names from the House of Representatives in this Interresor Working Group. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. We have a general majority, let's see 14, there's an entity. I find that we have selected three members of the Interresor Group from the House of Representatives. We will now vote on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Darko Babalj. Please prepare to vote on this conclusion. Vote now. 16 for, against 13, 8 abstentions. I find that the House of Representatives has adopted this conclusion. I'm closing the 56th session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next session is scheduled for 20 November 2013. Session completed at 14:15 p.m.
