ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16211	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 51st session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. The meeting invited our regular guests, the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of the media. Representatives of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption whose report on the agenda for today's session were also invited to attend the session. I warmly welcome the present MPs and guests. The absence was justified by MPs: Božo Ljubić, Milorad Živković, Nermin Purić, Danijela Martinović and Salko Sokolović. A delay in this session was announced by MP Milica Marković. According to the service's information, 31 MPs are present at the moment, and I find that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. When it comes to changes and additions to the agenda of this session, I would like to mention the following. The following shall be added to the agenda: point 3. – The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foreign Trade Chamber of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-33/13, of 19.07.2013. As part of the previous issues, I would like to remind you that as a commission, the College of the House of Ministers has reached agreement on the Proposal of Parliament's Opinion Dušanka Majkić on the 2012 report on the work of the Council of Ministers, which reads: The House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers to pay more attention to drawing up annual reports on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. In accordance with Article 80(2), The rules of procedure of the House shall be notified of the agreement reached. The Commission's report to the College you received. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Ambassador Asim Sarajlić has applied for the debate on the proposed agenda, please. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16212	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow colleagues, honored guests, just here another note from the MPs present at this session, Salko Sokolović is not present for a medical session, he is currently in the hospital, will be deployed to the heart clinic today, but his condition is good and he welcomes you all.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16213	I said the reasons for the absence are justified, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16214	I did, but here's to point out that he had health problems. So, we're in front of the SDA Club here to apply for a new agenda point, since I see that you're yourself chairing without colleagues today, you determine which would possibly be the point of the agenda if you support this House. On the basis of Article 29. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Representatives' Club at the BiH Council of Ministers' House of Representatives, aha pardon, on the basis of Article 29. The Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH The Club of Members of the SDA in the House of Representatives suggests the following conclusion – On the establishment of an Investigation Commission of the Representatives' House for the Determination of the Legislability of Procedures of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (SIPA), in the event of the detention and detention of MPs at Shemsudin Mehmedovic's House of Representatives. If this point is supported by this House, the Commission's task would be to establish, in the light of the provisions of the applicable laws, as well as any circumstances relating to the detention and detention of MPs at the Šemsudin Mehmedović's House of Representatives by SIPA on 19.07.2013 whether there were any such cases of atypical behaviour of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of SIPA and its director, Goran Zubac. The investigative commission is obliged to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, and is authorised to ask BiH institutions for the data needed to work, and BiH institutions are obliged to seek data without delaying delivery in accordance with the law. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat will provide administrative support for the needs and work of this Research Commission. The investigative commission would act urgently and will deliver its report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. We propose that every club of MPs in the House of Representatives propose a single member of this commission. They would choose among themselves the chairman, first and second deputy. The conclusion would take effect on the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of BiH" provided that this House is positively declared. So we're asking this to be a special item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16215	I will only ask you to deliver professional services to the Members of Parliament as soon as possible, as the Rules of Procedure so require. 3 Is anyone else answering for a debate on the agenda of today’s session? If there are no more logs on the agenda, I'll conclude the debate on the agenda. I wouldn't take a break, so let's wait two, three minutes for it to just be copied and then come out on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16216	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16217	Ten minutes break at the request of the SNSD MPs' club. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Council of Ministers, I invite you all to take your positions in the O.R. So we had a break of 10 minutes at the request of the head of the SNSD Club. Before that I concluded the debate, we formally know what it means by the Rules of Procedure. In the meantime, however, more members of the MPs' clubs applied to me with a desire to be seen as clubs before we vote on this agenda. And if I don't put that conclusion to the vote, here's hoping that we're all agreed that after the club manager explains, that the other clubs that want it, some say their opinion. Are we all in agreement here? Yes, thank you. The word has been made by the head of SNSD's Club of Representatives Drago Kalabić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16219	I thank the chairman and welcome you, dear fellow ministers, fellow Members, all guests. The logical setting, I was a little surprised there weren't any comments, but here's the thing, while at first everyone was probably trading attitudes, on behalf of the SNSD Club, we were looking for a break for that very reason, and I'm obliged to explain, so, the reasons. You see we will support this proposal to form this commission for many reasons, among other things we will support for the reason that the SDA voted here to take away immunity from the MPs, they looked at the floor when the bill was here and then they supported those solutions, and we were saying that it was not good and that the cat would come to the door. However, it was not respected at the time that state lawmakers were ordered by international power centres, unlike all other states, to abolish immunity, that is one thing. Secondly, the SDA did not allow any debate when there were arrests of MPs in various parliaments, under the pretext that the state authorities are doing so, but when it was allegedly their MPs, then the problem is, we have no problem discussing anything and any time and any 4 time. And now we are likely to violate that principle that now the state authorities are no longer working, because in this case they allegedly abuse their position or what they are already accused of, and Parliament is required to stand by, we will not stand in anyone's protection. We are interested here in giving light to this case, not to protect Mr Mehmedović as our colleague in Parliament, not even to violate the procedure, we have lost faith that state lawmakers will be protected precisely because of those who brought us into this position, but we continue to insist on the extent to which we are asked. And the key thing we're going to support, we're going to say, is it possible for the story to end, that for dozens of tons of weapons, no one knows where it is, that it's not known, that no one can be charged. There, when a rifle was found in Serbian villages, half the village was arrested and half the village was closed. The lowest officials when they had the slightest suspicion of war crimes, they and their 10 associates were closed the same night, the same night, from the lowest to the lowest officials we didn't react. MPs were hapšen here in this building, in this House, the SDA refused to discuss it at the time. But here's to determine what's going on, I'm not that anyone is accused for no reason, but I am for principles, that one nation is not subject to one archeic, and the other is subject to another. And can anyone be charged in any way, whether 220 pages of material is completely empty, if it is empty text, I will ask that Mr. Mehmedović be stopped, according to our colleague here in Parliament, to stop any action. But if it wasn't for us to know if there were any isolated territories in the past war where no war activities were conducted, and only war crimes were on the territory of the RS. That's what we're hoping for, though I've come to be honest with you personally.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16220	It's good, let me remind you, therefore, that not only are all colleagues of Kalabić, three minutes are for discussion within the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16221	Here I am, finishing up, I was in favour of the conclusion that before that, information from the D.A. and the S.I.A. to form us, because we agree and vote for this Commission of Investigation in the hope that we will get complete material from the SIPA and the D.A. and that we can say accordingly that Mr. Mehmedović, in our conviction, although no one has to respect it, is either guilty or has material to act there or not, when we have already entered into it. But I'm setting up a dilemma about what's gonna happen if we don't get that material and if we don't, we don't. But here in any case, because SNSD has been acting in principle and every time it comes to investigating certain actions, we have no problem with that, and I expect to get answers to these questions that I mentioned, we are solely interested in this whole story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16222	Thank you. The word has been made by the head of SDP's Club of Representatives, MP Saša Magazinović, please. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16223	Dear Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome the rest of you. The SDP club will support the formation of an investigative commission, let the whole truth be established and that is the most important. But right now, you should know that through our board member, if she is formed, and here I can see that she will, because there is a consensus about it, we will insist on investigating and stating which I will now characterise as an eyeless manipulation, not to say, before the Commission itself, a lie placed by SDA President Sulejman Tihić that behind this arrest stands the SDP. I quote his statement – Become worried that the arrest of Mehmedović is part of the SDP offer to parties from RS that includes the adoption of some laws and the arrest of certain SDA personnel. As a SDP, we wanted to file criminal charges for this, but the formation of an investigative commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is quite enough to, in addition to establishing the truth in a broader context, also to demonstrate these structures and manipulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16224	Do any of the other club bosses want to say something? If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. Please prepare to vote. So, I propose that the conclusion on the establishment of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to determine the legality of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection – SIPA be classified as the ninth item of the agenda in the case of the detention and detention of MPs at Šemsudin Mehmedović's House. Please prepare, please. The word is from Ambassador Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16225	I'm begging you, we can't accept this formula, I didn't say that in the address. We can only accept a formulation for the establishment of an investigative commission that will determine all circumstances regarding the arrest of MPs. Because if you've ruled on the illegalities of what the D.A. is going to do to us, if you've ruled that there's no quote on what we're going to do... if we're investigating all the circumstances, then the prosecution and the SIPA must be involved in this situation. What do you want me, this Parliament here accuses Mr Mehmedović, and tomorrow the prosecution says that man is not guilty or vice versa that this Parliament says he is not guilty and the prosecution does so. So, I'm asking you if it's possible for a reformation not to be like this, I respect the view that you think that there is an illegality, but let us also find it, too, let us... because you're careful here, no other state bodies are mentioned here at any moment, and the head of the SDA Club said in an explanation that we're going to ask other states, what 6 we're going to ask, if this is limited. I ask you to rephrase - for the circumstances relating to the arrest of Mr Mehmedović. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16226	I just remind you, therefore, as chairman I must work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the SDA Club has delivered a formulation that they think should look like this item of the agenda, what was delivered in writing I must put to the vote. In addition, we had the position of the SDP Club, which said that within that agenda point, it wants to check and quote on the statements made by the president of the SDA, but we can therefore do all of this if we position this agenda point and declare it to be a part of the agenda. It's my question -- is the Proposer and here's the SNSD Club, would you like a five-minute break to make, to call the Extended College and try to make a deal, this one? Here, so, I'm taking a 10-minute break, calling a session of the Extended College, just to try to find a formula that would be... [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you all to take your seats in the O.R. So, we held a session, a short, extended college of the House of Representatives, and agreed together, unanimously, to propose to the House, so we'll make it clear that as the ninth point, we'll consider the next item of the agenda, so it would read the following way: point 9. Consideration of the conclusions on the establishment of an investigative commission of the House of Representatives to determine the legality of the conduct of state authorities in the event of the detention and detention of MPs at the Šemsudin Mehemedović's House of Representatives. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have adopted the proposal to place a new point as the 9th point of the agenda in the way I have already read it. I find that the 51st session of the House has the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 50th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Legislative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary questions; 7 3. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foreign Trade Chamber of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-33/13 of 19.07.2013; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures, Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-21/13 of 14.05.2013. (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection and Well-being Act, Proposer: MP Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović, Law No: 01-02-1-26/13 of 05.06.2013. (first reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Volunteering, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-30/13 of 10.06.2013. (first reading); 7. Report from the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures; 8. Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption for 2012, issue 05/8-50-19-273-1/13 of 14.05.2013; 9. Consideration of the conclusions on the establishment of an investigative committee of the House of Representatives to determine the legality of the conduct of state authorities in the event of the detention and detention of MPs at Šemsudin Mehemedović's House; 10. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 11. The Commission's 2012 report on an effort to reach agreement on Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work; 12. Commission report from the 47th session of the House of Representatives, held on 18.04.2013, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH'), No. 33/06, 41/06, 81/06, 91/06, 91/07, 87/09 and 28/12), I submit the next parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to open a bid for the scholarship of thousands of top students from Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2014’; Commission report from the Ćemalović session of the House of Representatives, held on 23.05.2013, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I submit an initiative in charge of Nermine BiH Council of Ministers to prepare within six months at the latest and to submit to the parliamentary procedure the law on organ transplants and donorship in Bosnia and Herzegovina’; The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the conclusion of Nermine Ćemalović's Parliament on the discussion of the initiative from the 48th session of the House of Representatives held on 23.05.2013, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I submit an initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and submit to the parliamentary procedure the organ transplant and donor law in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the latest within six months’; Consideration of Parliamentarian Saša Bursać's initiative on the sequel to the 49th session of the House, held on 08.07.2013, which reads: "Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I launch a parliamentary initiative to see the situation at the border crossings with Croatia and the constitutionals whether there are problems with the crossing of citizens and goods." 8 Moving to the agenda, first point Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 50th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16230	So I will repeat what I said last time, I have asked the Council of Ministers or the Competent Resort Ministry of Transport and Communications to answer the question – Why is there no implementing provision of the Law on Public TV System on the establishment of three production centres? It is, of course, corporate formation. I've received answers from three Public TV services. It is of course not enough for me, I ask that the Resort Ministry, or the Council of Ministers, be on the basis of these answers, but also my duties and obligations and my visions of future action, to answer these questions – When and what is it that these legal provisions, if I am not mistaken, are being implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16231	The word has an MP, Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question referred to language and national representation in programmes, i.e. in public radio service operators pursuant to Article 26(3), (4) and (5). I've received answers from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which I thank you for. From these answers, it is evident that BHRT has achieved such national representation that 73.6% 9 employees are Bošnjak, 10% Hrvat and 9% Srbin and 7.4% remain. So this shows that BHRT is really in one state that requires a thorough restructuring, and we know that the key problem is the lack of the formation of a public radio service corporation. We probably should have discussed it a little bit and deeper in the last session. The Federation Radio Television responded that it had never completed a full list of its employees based on national belongings, since national membership for the Croatian Federation of BiH, as an employer, was not a defining factor in the establishment of a working relationship, nor did national membership ever have an impact on the choice of employees in a particular workplace. So, from this we see several things of the Croatian Federation, BiH is considered an employer, not a public operator, and does not consider the obligations of the Law on Balanced National Representative to be actually a public interest and public policy that operators must implement. On the other hand, they recommend that if parliament considers the Federation of BiH necessary, they will make such a list of employees. They received the issue from MPs from the state parliament and it is not the whim of MPs, nor the SDP, but it is a matter of implementing public policies that have an important impact on the implementation of the public radio service concept in BiH. And finally let me just say
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16233	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16234	Finally, to say that RTS gave the answer that all the competences in connection with him were performed by the RS Assembly and that they would give her the answers. I only mention that many MPs
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16235	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16236	RS wants data on cantonal or federal levels and is given to them and that this is not a fair approach. Requesting complete data to be given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16237	Thank you. Comment on the response received, MP Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16238	Thank you, well-respected chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests. I have asked a parliamentary question that reads – How will Neum integrate traffic in BiH, given these circumstances around the border? 10 I got the answer and I want to say I'm unhappy with the answer. I'm told, is, that it's the jurisdiction of entities, cantons, and so on. I guess we all know so much, and the question is that, at least that's how I get it, it would encourage someone to think and start certain activities to solve certain things. I know it's entity jurisdiction, but I think those who give answers have to think this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16239	Thank you. Ambassador Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16240	Thank you, Chairman, I welcome everyone present in the O.R. Here I got an answer that I can't be satisfied with because, I asked – How many registered return homes in BiH have been restored to where people live, where they don't have electricity, how many in the Federation, and how many in the RS and when will the electrification of them end? And now, I welcome the ministry's decision where they say they have opened a tender that has 81 municipalities from BiH, where the number of housing units is listed, but that is not the answer to my question, or that is not the exact number I am looking for. Whether or not someone has applied or does not mean whether or not these housing units have one. So I'm interested in what particular number is that? It says here that in 06.05, the ministry sent a request to all municipalities in BiH for data on the need to electrify renewed and unrenewed housing units of returnees. The delivery deadline is up and I would, here says the results will be known by the end of June 2013. So, I'm interested in this information, or – does the ministry have the right number of households that still do not have electricity? So I don't know how to make that database, right to tell you I haven't even thought about it, but I think someone in the ministry should take care of it and those people there should know how and how to get to the number of these households. So, I'd like a real and concrete answer, okay. The tenders, it's all fine, but I'm interested, there's so much here, so much there. That's what I want to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16241	I find that there are no more comments reported. Moving on to, b) New Parliament Questions The word has an MP, Slavko Jovičić, please. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16243	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers with his members of the Council of Ministers. So, at the 48th session of the House of Representatives, I asked a parliamentary question, and I received an answer from the Council of Ministers on 10th of this year at a session. I'm giving the sekretar this memo and the answer, why isn't this listed today, and why didn't I get a chance to comment on this answer and why isn't it in the agenda? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16244	Okay. The word is from MP Asim Sarajlić, therefore, new parliamentary issues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, on behalf of the SDA MPs' club, I am asking the next parliamentary question to the Council of Ministers. So, based on Article 151. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, SDA MPs' Club in the House of Representatives, the BiH Council of Ministers asks the next parliamentary question – Does the Council of Ministers of BiH intend to carry out Mr Goran Zubac's dismissal procedure as Director of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection through the Ministry of Security and Supervisory Authorities of BiH? On the basis of the provision of Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives propose that the procedure be initiated and Mr Zubac be suspended immediately from the office of directors. The reason for asking the parliamentary question and launching the initiative is the existence of a reasonable doubt that Mr Zubac, as Director of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, has exceeded the boundaries of official powers in case of detention and detention in the rooms of the Members of the SIPA in the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, Mr Šemsudin Mehmedović. From Mr Zubac's behaviour and SIPA's officials during the arrest and detention action of Mr Mehmedović, statements made by Mr Zubac himself and the SIPA pres-služba Service on several occasions, it turns out that SIPA is not prepared to comply with the BiH Prosecutor's Office's orders in cases where SIPA and the Prosecutor's Office's views are diverged on certain issues. Even more has been shown the willingness to use the state police apparatus on its own in the event of a conflicting attitude. Mr. Zubac's behaviour is a dangerous trend in the functioning of the state police structure and leads to the establishment of a police state. Goran Zubac or anyone from any police agency may disagree with the prosecutor's position in any particular case, but must respect the prosecutor's position as long as he is in force and must not use the state police apparatus on his own and contrary. For these reasons, we consider it necessary for the Council of Ministers to act without delay in accordance with this initiative. Due to the importance of this event and its impact on the overall 12 democratic flows in BiH, the SDA MPs' club at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives will launch an appropriate parliamentary investigation, which is the point we have already discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16246	The word has an emissary, Aleksandra Pandurević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16247	I thank the chairman. I will not present any subjective, flat-rate and political evaluations of anyone's work, I have one very specific question regarding the lives of ordinary people. Namely, the Commission for Integrated Border Management gave its consent to the temporary opening of the bridge between Bratunc and Ljubovija from May 1st to the end of December for freight transport capacity of up to 25 tonnes. However, to this day, this bridge, although it was due from May 1st to bring about a better improvement for people who live there to go normally, to carry crops from one side to the other, is still not open to this day, so my question is addressed to the Commission – When and why is this not open? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16248	Thank you. The word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16249	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers. My question is, for five years now, I have been trying to answer that question, and it is about marking the inter-entity line as an obligation under the Annex II of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and that is why my question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, NATO headquarters in Sarajevo and the EUFOR Command, as the main authorities for that part of the job. I know that the Council of Ministers should have formed a commission and not formed it – is it still because the Federation will not participate in the work of the commission? If it is, we need to know. So I want a concrete answer. Given that the RS has delivered all the materials, there is no more reason not to endure and I expect that in the responses from NATO headquarters and the EUFOR Command, I will get, but also from the Council of Ministers, just – Who is it that obstructs the work of this commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16250	The word has an MP, Petar Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16251	Thank you, Chairman. 13 I am literally renewing the questions I had asked earlier, but I did not get an answer. The first question was referred to the RS – What is the epilogue of the private colleges in RS, what measures have been taken in this regard? Second question: (a) How many civil servants and deputies are employed in state ministries, therefore, individually? ( b) How many funds have individual ministries been allocated to NGOs? I c) How much has been spent on projects so far by individual ministries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16252	Thank you. The word has an MP, Emir Kabil, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16253	I thank the chairman. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and the question is – which is why the Ministry of Foreign and Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is responsible for identifying(?) and the registration of animals, allowing the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry of Sarajevo to counter Article 16. The BiH Veterinary Act forms a parallel animal labelling agency and a parallel special database, thus making it difficult to monitor the entry and exit of animals, control of infectious animal diseases, determine the real state of the population of different categories of animals? This problem is so much more significant that the registration, with only a commission or agency located in Banja Luka for registration to the EU and which has adequate stamps according to this agreement, has a discrepancy of almost a million non-registered animals, so I would therefore ask for an urgent answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16254	The word has a letter from Ismet Dervoz, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16255	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members and members of the Council of Ministers. I refer the initiative to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At its 50th session, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH ratified the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight of Violence against Women and Violence in the Family at its 31st session, thus contributing to the entry into force of the Convention as the 10th member state of the Council of Europe. I urge you to deposit ratification instruments as soon as possible and allow the implementation of the strongest legal instrument so far in the fight against violence against women and domestic violence. 14 I would like to congratulate my fellow Members and fellow parliamentarians and to point out that of the 30 countries that have joined the Convention, BiH is therefore the tenth that has contributed to the entry into force of the Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16256	The word has an MP Dragan Vrankić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16257	Thank you very much. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent ministries, i.e. the Commission for Integrated Border Management – When will the Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent, look at the problems found by applying the border agreement with the Republic of Croatia on the road route M17 Sarajevo – Mostar – Metković and Gabriela Polje in correlation with the Biač border crossing? On the grounds that the Doljan should return to traffic and goods, and we know that the practice is quite different, that Bijač is still isolated as a travel route, that it cannot be reached and that the passengers continue to go towards Metkovic and that we have problems, not only in Metkovic but also in Gabela Polje because of its specific position. Those who don't know, and we can talk more at 14th point about it today, the border line goes down the street, middle of the street, middle of the settlement, and I think this problem is very, very important and big for those people who live there. So, as long as the highway is not built at least to Mostar, I think that the Doljani border crossing must have some importance, much greater than it's supposed to be at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16258	Thank you. The word has an MP Amir Fazlić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16259	Mr. Chairman, I have two questions for the Council of Ministers and I will deliver them in writing wanting to speed up the course of today's session and to work constructively.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16260	Thank you. The word has an MP, Zijad Jagodić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16261	I have two questions for the Council of Ministers – What seems to be the legal solution to the supply of milk and milk products for which inspection findings have been found to contain extremely 15 dangerous and illicit quantities of aflatoxins, and that significant quantities of them are found on the dairy lagers in BiH, of which only 400 tonnes on the Tuzlaska mlecara lager? Second question to the Council of Ministers – What was done during 2012 and the first half of 2013 to reduce the number of lawsuits before the European Court of Human Rights, with only 507, and 1,350 claims concerning BiH being filed in 2011 in 2010? The competent courts in BiH – How many companies, stock companies, as well as the DOO are led in bankruptcy proceedings, which are companies, since when is the bankruptcy procedure opened, who is in the same manager and all mentioned on 30.06.2013? And the question of the Ministry of Security and the Agency for Investigation and Protection – When will SIPA first and foremost start a more active mission in the part of economic crime that makes up responsible persons in the legal person, which is visible almost every day through non-payment, not fulfilling the legal obligations undertaken, both to employees and business partners, and to competent public institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16262	The word has a letter from Nermin Ćemalović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16263	Mr. Chairman, allow me to greet you and everyone present. This way, I urge the co-workers of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to decide on a decision by the BiH Council of Ministers to set up a commission for the selection of BiH anthem, which will consist of representatives of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and cultural and public workers' homes, through its competent ministry. After the constitution, the Commission will adopt its rules of procedure and plan for its work, establish the text and conduct a public competition for the selection of the text of the BiH national anthem according to the legal procedure, and select the best-ranked text and establish a proposal for the text of the BiH national anthem. After that, the BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with preparing and referring to the parliamentary procedure of the draft law amending the Law on the BiH National Anthem. In an explanation just to say that indeed our BiH, our country is one of the few that does not have the wording of the national anthem and that the citizens, our citizens of BiH, I think they deserve to have the text and show that they also have patriotism, and since we are a democratic country and we need to show democracy, I think we deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16264	The word has an MP, Boško Tomić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Lately, the issue of Croatia's entry into the EU, especially in Serbia where pressure is being made for certain products to be untaxed, i.e. that they are not being paid customs duties and 16 to apply the CEFTA Agreement, I am primarily referring to tobacco products, so my question concerns the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations – has so far given any customs relief for imports of tobacco and tobacco products from Croatia, which is a member of the EU, and how will they oppose importers of these products, and all in order to protect domestic producers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16266	The word has been sent by Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16267	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, and this applies to this – Does the Council of Ministers intend to refer again to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposal of the Law on Mine Action, which was not adopted during the previous months during parliamentary procedures in this House? I would like to remind you that in the European Parliament's interparliamentary dialogue, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been called on to pass this important law as soon as possible, which would therefore legally regulate this extremely important area in BiH and thus reduce the number of those who still suffer from mines in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16268	I find that there are no more applications for new parliamentary issues. I thank all those who have asked questions, thanks to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister and the ministers who have been here in the vast majority today at this point in the agenda. I'm closing the second item of the agenda and we're moving to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-33/13 of 19.07.2013 This Bill proposal was submitted in the procedure on 19.07.2013 with a request for urgent consideration. I am opening the debate before the discussions on this agenda point begin, and I am obliged to direct this debate in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Section 3. First, MP Senad Šepić signed up, please. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16270	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am on this agenda point, and I would generally appeal to the Council of Ministers, and also to you in the College that you are holding meetings, to end this practice in a certain way that we are discussing matters and many things in an emergency procedure. I'd like to ask you to put this back in the regular procedure. I've personally talked to a lot of people who are dealing with these issues, and I think there's about 70-80% of this topic, which is a proposal for these changes, which they will personally support, but I think this deserves a little wider discussion and the possibility of us fixing this kind of amendment, and I would ask on behalf of the SDA Club to get this back into the regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16271	Before I give my word to the next MP, just to be clear, so this point was on the agenda today, in a way that the Extended College unanimously concluded that it was going to today's agenda and it wasn't on the Extended College, which was participated by both the SDA, by any man who was neither against nor abstention, that you had in mind. And if you say you weren't, I think it's better if you didn't say it. The word has an MP, Anto Domazet.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH, the SDP Club will support, both in the process, by emergency procedure and content. We would like to point out that these changes are, therefore, very clearly defined and fully consistent with the urgent procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, they represent a significant improvement in the business environment and represent one of the steps for which the business community calls out, which is that the business environment is improving. I would especially like to say that in this sense, in the amendment proposal, the role of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce as an institution that has an extremely important place in promoting economy and is given public authority, that is what was constantly asked of the business community. Secondly,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16273	This is in the function of an emergency procedure to explain why, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16274	Yeah. And secondly, I would like to point out that the issue of limiting the contribution to the Foreign Chamber of Commerce is very precise, and that is how I really think that, with these other proposals, we have a very good bill that will help the business community and raise its competitiveness. Thank you very much. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16275	The urgent procedure also wants to be discussed by MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16276	Dear Chairman, I ask you not to abuse the position of the chairman and then, and when you are not talking about the procedure, you tolerate it when it comes to your MPs. So, I don't think it's correct. If I had talked about the principles you would have stopped me and said – colleagues Majkić are not about principles but procedures. I'm asking you to just keep your relationship to SDP and SNSD the same way.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16277	Well, you can see that I'm more rigorous towards SDP, most of the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16278	I didn't notice. You'll have to convince me more.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16279	But now you've abused the Rules of Procedure a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16280	No, I have a right to say this.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16281	So you started talking about procedure, but come on, I'll tolerate it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16282	Here's what's at the expense of my time. So, like I was talking about this. So, what's the reason why I think we should accept this emergency procedure, I think for 10 years we've been talking about the situation in the Outer Chamber of Commerce and there's been no political agreement so far on how to change the situation there. We know how much the Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Ministry has been trying to find out what the public activity is dealing with the Foreign Trade Chamber. And thanks to colleagues from the U.S.A., we haven't had the capacity for these changes so far. They never supported it, and we know why they didn't support it and why it suits them. So, this needs to be implemented urgently in order for this country, or those companies that operate, to be able to get what is provided to them to reduce the quotas they pay on the basis of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. And finally, to make it more responsible, because as a non-governmental organisation it should, and perform public activity, you need to know what it is and you need to know how it is done. So there's no reason why this shouldn't be an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16283	The word is from Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16284	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, first of all, I'm going to support what my dear colleague Majkić said about the emergency procedure. And I'll just say a few more sentences. In the past term when I was chaired by the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, we had virtually no sessions that were not the point of the Foreign Chamber. Niko one knew what relationships were like, who is... yes, now that it's a procedure, but let me explain a little bit why we're going to support that, I say, procedure. The secretary came, stole the seal, took the Statute, these others blocked it, no one answered the Chamber, chose themselves, did they, did they not. This, however, suggests that this country is beginning to function and that the Foreign Chamber, which was neither in heaven nor on earth, was not even an NGO, that it would at least answer to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, or the Council of Ministers. Well, someone in this country must always answer to someone. But they were the estranged center of power and the most important thing was the whole story, the huge tax on those who had to pay membership fees, not guilty or due. I don't know what people were paying for, when there was no law, or... but there was something they wanted to export to help them. So, if I don't, but my colleague Majkić said, we're going to support this by emergency procedure and we don't need to postpone here, this was supposed to be settled five years ago, six years ago, not waiting today.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16285	Thank you. The word has a letter from Azra Hadžiahmetović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16286	Thank you. I have a different opinion, first of all it is one of the laws that should certainly be amended in certain provisions to adapt to the circumstances. However, the changes that have been proposed to us by an emergency procedure, so without the possibility of any amendment action, I think they deserve us all to imagine that. Here I am for all those who, perhaps, are less in this problem, will draw attention to that by Article 2. The chamber is independent, non-governmental, non-political and non-profit association, so NGOs, non-political, non-profit, and that the amendments to the law become institutions with public powers. It can't be in a legal sense both, so it can be either one or the other, it can be one. And the second reason why I don't think he should go through with the emergency procedure, here's the question, let's just say, how independent, non-governmental, non-profit, and so forth. The chamber is obliged to submit a report to the Council of Ministers on budget implementation. So what kind of changes are here and what proposed solutions, I think we should still stop and possibly improve some of the solutions that are proposed. In that sense, I appeal that we take a brief or regular procedure, and certainly not an emergency procedure. Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16287	Thank you. I find that there are no more reports. I'm closing the debate on the third item of the agenda. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-21/13 of 14.05.2013 (second reading) I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate on the fourth item of the agenda. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection and Well-being Act, Proposer: MP Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović, Law No: 01-02-1-26/13 of 05.06.2013 (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16290	Thank you very much. So I really paid attention to this law, the bill of law, starting with the fact that in 2009, we were very proud when we passed the Animal Protection and Well-being Act. I remember that time, and I remember when we boasted that we had fulfilled another law from the European Partnership, that we had created a condition to be supported by various European and world authorities in this area and how we boasted that the ban on torture and every inequitable and unwarranted killing of animals was the basis for BiH introducing human laws and that we would begin to deal with what has long been regulated in many countries. Now, here's one moment where we're going back. The bill that is before us today, besides having some symbolic changes in other members, his basic message in 2013 returns to the killing of dogs on the streets of BiH. Maybe my sensitivity can't accept that, especially when a woman suggests it. Regardless of all the reasons she could benefit from it, the first reason she shouldn't have suggested it was because her sensitivity shouldn't have allowed it. To declare killing as a means of solving, to declare the result as a cause, our colleague was by no means allowed, especially one who speaks very much about issues for which women must have greater sensitivity than who they are. 21 Who was she consulting? I've read a lot of portals on the subject. I also saw those who strongly advocate politics, i.e. the law she proposed and saw that it was mostly people who had no basic idea about it, do not care about animals and do not know that the consequences of today's situation in BiH, related to a large number of dogs on the streets, are due to unimplemented law. I'm going to remind you that the Council of Ministers, I think somewhere in the 13th of this year, has been considering this problem and has given an assessment that the law can be implemented, but that local communities have done nothing. I would understand that our colleague has made an effort to ensure that local communities, especially where the SDP commissioners are, have addressed and asked to implement the law. No, for an unimplemented law to pass a new law that we'll officialize the killing, can fix this condition. I just want to show you one piece of information that in many ways can reflect the situation, when it comes to the field of regulation, as our colleague suggests. One pair of dogs in five years provided the formation of 57,000 new ones. So that's 11,400 new ones a year, just one pair of dogs. If killing is a solution, if we're going to do it every year, multiply that 11,000 by the number of dogs on the streets. Why hasn't the law been implemented? Because local communities didn't pay attention to that. Because no obligations were defined that those who took the dogs, the owners and who left them, allowed the dog that was in the middle, and until then had care and attention, became even more aggressive than the one who was wandering the streets until then. Because units of local self-government failed to provide adequate and adequate animal care, did not establish shelters, so asylums and failed to achieve hygiene services, microchip them and everything else the law implies. And let's say that the law is passed, I hope it doesn't, but let's say that the law is passed, we're going to kill everything we see this year, everything we see. The next part that's left will provide the problem again. Dogs on the streets are the reason for the non-resolvement of the problem by local communities. I want to give an example in Banja Luka where I know that there are seven dogs who have been sterilized and returned to the middle of where they came from. And every time the citizens come over there, they bring food, they hang out with them, that those people who love dogs and don't have them at home, to deal with them. So, what were we supposed to do? We should have killed them. Where the local community takes care, that's where the problems are solved. It is not an accident that the UNDP decided to address this problem, so in a number of municipalities that have shown interest, imagine municipalities that have shown interest, and not that have fulfilled obligations under the law, to do, to help them both financially and professionally, how this problem should be resolved. So, I don't think there's any reason to vote for this law. I'm asking you not to make any laws, his epilogue to be killing. No other provision of this law is so significant that it would help this first reason. Accordingly, I ask you not to support the principles of this Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16291	The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić, please. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16292	Here I am, very briefly, because I spoke on this subject during the debate on the procedure, or the request for an emergency procedure. I will repeat, and then I reminded myself that this House of Representatives, therefore this House has reached its conclusion and has committed and asked the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, or the Office of Veterinary Affairs, to provide this Parliament with a comprehensive analysis of the implementation of the existing law with any recommendations on how to go forward. I then, at the last session when we were discussing the procedure, asked the promoter to be patient, to wait for it, I invited the Registrar who was present to deliver that analysis to us until this session, I saw her, though unofficially, she was done somewhere in the fourth month, but here I won't use her here. So, I think it's not too late for the department of resolution, of course, if the minister listens to me, to jump into this situation, because you see that now the arguments that deserve an expert assessment have been faced. So, I don't ignore local community demands, I don't ignore the NGO sector, I don't ignore the citizens, I don't ignore my own practice, and that's why I can't handle it anymore, that's why I think it would be the most rational for this House of Representatives to listen to the profession, that is, to listen to the relevant Ministry and the Office of Veterinary. That is why we will not support this law in our first reading and seek and insist that the conclusion of this House be carried out. I'm asking the College to urinate at the Resort Ministry to finally get that paper, so if we had anything to do with it in this procedure if this law were to pass in the first reading, we would have it until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16293	The word has Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16294	I thank the chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, here I am on behalf of a group of young people who have associations and on behalf of 550 damaged and attacked citizens and citizens of my city and 750 who have been attacked by dogs for half a year this year, and there is an analysis for this period in Zenica and Sarajevo, which is why I have data. Based on a request dated several months ago from the BiH Federation's assembly and cities, to do something, to solve the problem. They've all addressed the competent institutions and addressed, let's say, I have data from a year and more and more times, there's never been any suggestion, no document to solve this problem. Searching for a solution that the citizens asked me for and offered solutions, I asked the BiH Research Sector to make an analysis. The analysis was made last year and it showed what the situation is, the analysis is comparative and applies not only to BiH but also to our surrounding neighbours, as well as to the European countries. What does that analysis show? It shows first that these problems are solved, i.e. what is the legal solution in the countries in the environment, especially when it comes to this institute that I have proposed to change and how it is in other European countries. I have to say that based on the data obtained from the Research Centre, only four countries out of these 23 lists, I probably didn't count 20 or more countries, only four countries have a solution similar to that in BiH, there are Germany, Italy, Greece and BiH. In which Germany and Italy have a life of asylum and unlimited accommodation, so asylum dogs. All other countries, I repeat, all other countries using non-determined mechanisms, keep dogs in asylum for up to 60 days, or up to 30 days with the exception of Croatia, which is 60 days, with 30 days only Slovenia and Serbia. That's what he's saying, that international organisations that don't implement what they've proposed in their countries actually put pressure on these countries when they join the EU, and that's that. The largest humanitarian organisation that helps and significantly helps solve this problem, in part of the problem, so it only helps to solve sterilization, but it does not prevent, does not prevent these same animals whose numbers are increasing from last year to this year, since those organisations operate in BiH, it is doing some other activities that are for every praise, but they also have a restriction that they can only come to a country where there is such a law and that they can implement their own resources. The irony is that the organisation comes from a country that has almost the shortest period of accommodation of animals in asylum, only 7 days, where no one forbids anyone to, within what is scheduled, house animals, put in their own backyards, register, do whatever is necessary. Why this proposal? The state of BiH, as the data I have available and listed them in this explanation, should spend 157 marks per month per animal to meet these standards that are prescribed. And you know well that we have seas of people who have no income, that we have seas of people who have worked their whole lives to get this much. Come on, I mean it's hypocritical, it's hypocritical to advocate some standards that we in BiH are not able to comply with at this time. Let's give ourselves a deadline, I asked the organizations – when is it possible to solve this problem? And then I get an answer, so in five years we'll be able to sterilize, we don't guarantee that the number won't grow, the number of dogs will grow regardless of the sterilization activity, but five years later, maybe this proposal of yours could go, hypocritically. Someone needs to implement the funds, NGOs are very aggressive, especially from countries that have this specific and very low period, a small number of days of asylum accommodation. So why do these organizations, which thus play such a human role in our society, not struggle to pass a law in their countries that will preserve tens of thousands of animals for life? Animals attack people. This is just that I've put out this number just the number of people reported, most of these attacks aren't reported if there's no medical consequences. Four days, according to media reports, reported daily in Sarajevo for dog attacks. I'm currently feeding eight dogs around my cottage because they showed up here, I can't watch them get hungry and attack, so I'm feeding eight dogs, I used to be 12. And you know what our woods are turning into and the weekend goes out? So they turn into shelters for pack and pack animals. While there's someone to feed them, when they don't feed them, they know how animals like that will behave aggressively. You can't catch all the abandoned animals in the woods, sterilize them, you can't. I'm sorry that we're not as rich as England, so let's bring, Great Britain, to pass such a human law that we give millions of euros to those who have... law, and at the same time in our law to predict 7 days, so whoever doesn't report, let's predict this the same thing that I am here, not me, but this is what a group of young veterinarians have suggested. I ask you most beautifully for the sake of the BiH citizens, for the sake of all those children, for the girl from Travnik who ran away from such dogs under a car and died mortally, the man in Doboj who was also, whom the dogs had forced to make him die from the heart, the man there in Bratunac who was slaughtered by sheep 24. Be careful, it is not a matter, it is a European standard and it is a European standard. If Europe thought it was inappropriate, what it kept with it, which is that only BiH of all these countries has such a definition, undefined, definition indefinitely. And I'm asking you, I think I've been clear enough, if there are any further objections, suggestions, to fix, to fix this solution together. I was only talking about one segment. Our hypocrisy is infinite. When I left Zenica to Sarajevo, I saw a huge jumbo bullfight, announced on August 10th and 11th in Cevljanovici. By this law that you seek not to change, that law is strictly forbidden. Are you going to go and arrest people there, those 100,000 people who come to the corridor or are going to let people have their own tradition?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16295	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16296	Or they'll be illegally held, too. I ask you to support this law and help your amendments fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16297	Correction of the incorrect quote, MP Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16298	Thank you. It seems to me that, when it comes to the corrida, we've changed something, even though it was this dilemma that at one point it was irregular, but it seems to me that it was now brought down by one regulation, that it doesn't turn out to be a message that people are doing it illegally. But what I've come up with is one finding, of course we have the right all of us to propose legal solutions, different evaluations that are important, that MP who thinks at one point that he has to deal with a particular area, and I'm not going to talk directly about the very essence of the law now how much I'm going to talk about certain consequences that have to do with this law. You see, how did we come to have so many stray dogs on the streets of cities, so here is the city of Sarajevo, biting children, biting people, being in so many quantities? To discuss these legal solutions, we need to see how others do their job, how we got into this situation. So it would be correct if you had asked the mayor of Sarajevo whose job it is to have the kerad on the streets. The mayor of Sarajevo came here a day to hold captive parliamentarians and to fund protesters by knocking, playing round Parliament's building instead of catching fire. He forgot that it was his job to catch a tarp after Sarajevo, not to bite children, and only then, with the state parliament on matters. And Mr. Ivo Komšić here was playing around in that crowd, wringing and encouraging that mass to keep us locked up.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16299	But it's still the verdict, not the mayor's. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16300	I'm asking you, I'm talking about the problem. I'm talking about the problem, because all those who did, they were supposed to ask the mayors and the mayors if they were doing their job, because he was dealing with other issues. It's not the job of a letter, colleague Uzunović, to catch a cheetah, but Ivo Komšić did, to catch them by hand, to catch them on the street or whatever he could do. And he came to deal with other questions. And because he's not doing his job, we're having this debate today. And that's what I meant to say, that everything in this country has been mixed up. Ivo Komšić leads, spends the whole night discussing how to imprison parliamentarians and how to support the violent incursion of parliament, and he, instead of apologizing to us to say – I apologize to you on behalf of this city for what happened to you in Sarajevo. He's public in front of the cameras, because poor guy didn't know he was just used by the ones who brought him in, and now we have a problem. Kerad per Sarajevo thanks to Ivo Komšić, they are not anyone else. And instead of taking care of it and saying, come on, help me with the law, he didn't handle it. He directed the money to support various NGOs, who protested in front of this parliament, which he himself helped with the transfers, and failed to resolve this issue concerning people in Sarajevo. And I agree with the fact that animals don't bite people, but we have to say specifically who doesn't do their part of the job.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16301	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16302	Who didn't do their part of the job so we could have a real analysis of what to do next. But we don't want to talk about them, we're going to do what we do and we're not going to transfer them here to us, so we're going to get to bark at the stars and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16303	The word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16304	To my colleague, to say something that actually destroys the very essence of this law. The dog on the street is the result, not the cause, it's the result of years or decades of abandonment to solve this problem. When you kill all the dogs this year, I said, and you don't determine how to control their reproduction, you'll have them again soon, if you don't solve the problem essentially. Therefore, irresponsible ownership and non-implementation of preventive measures by local communities. Without those two things, no solution to this problem, killing won't solve the problem, dear colleague. You said BiH was a poor country. And it is, but they're saying that euthanasia is five times more expensive than one sterilization, five times. Well, on that basis, isn't this more cost-effective to sterilize than euthanasia? And in the end, there were so many stories on the subject that euthanasia is possible only in certain cases provided by law. Introducing the kind of euthanasia that you're proposing 26, we can't allow it as a humanist. And I'm asking you to withdraw this law while there's still time.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16305	I would also like to report for the replica and hope that no one would mind, since there is no colleague who would make me ______________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So, I want to say that I would not leave the wrong message or that there would be no malicious interpretation after this session, that the position of mayor of Sarajevo, the mayor of the BiH capital, is an important and respectable position. I also believe that the important and respectable positions and mayors of Banja Luka and other major cities in this country are important. They have their required responsibilities and duties and let them also work, of course in accordance with their powers. However, it seems to me that in the present part of the debate, somehow we are increasingly diverged, but if we were to ask all the MPs present here in the House whether they agree, whether there is this problem, I believe that the answer would be yes. The problem exists, not only in Sarajevo, but also in Tuzla, and in Banja Luka, both in Mostar and across BiH, to a lesser or larger extent. Well, just the fact that in 2012, there were over 500 attacks in one woman, that we have as much more in other cities, that there are thousands of attacks on citizens, above all on children. I know there are elementary schools where children can't go to school because of this problem. So, my proposal to try to deal rationally with this problem, I thank the MPs for opening this issue, and I don't believe that she, here, and the SDP Club thinks that all the solutions that are contained here should be implemented, but let's talk about this, let's try to find a solution and solve this problem, the bottom line is that. I absolutely think it is possible to come up with a solution in which we will protect both the rights of citizens and the rights of animals. These are not two uncompromising principles that we cannot find a solution and try to solve a specific problem that exists to a lesser or greater extent throughout the country. I hope I didn't cause any new replicas. The word has, i.e. a replica, a letter from Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to save some time, so I'm using time for a replica instead of a debate. So, it's good that we talk about something that is a visible problem, and it's good that we're looking for a solution to that problem in the interest of the citizens that this is most likely leaving a mark on. However, we must not remain unilaterally, we must consider all other aspects that go beyond this problem and different opinions and attitudes. 27 What is very significant, I believe, is that if it is necessary to amend this Law, then it should be done so that it is changed to the part where the duties and obligations and sanctions are listed and should be more clearly defined, in order to encourage better implementation of this Law. Because it is evident that we are all very proud and that we have European law, but it has not been implemented for four years. The local community has disobeyed everything its tasks are in this, the implementation of this Law. Ms. Majkić said, five times more expensive euthanasia than sterilizing a dog and I am now asking a question – How come local communities, which have not been able to find any means so far to sterilize abandoned animals, register their owners, to establish shelters, because they do not have those funds, will now find the emergency and provide all those funds that we need to put into shelters that need to be euthanized? I think that this could be solved in a different way and that is why I plead to discuss this Law and by adding certain amendments and trying to overcome the obvious problem that plagues the citizens of BiH and driving away the fear of our children who, just a few days ago, are calling for an appeal from pre-school institutions who are praying that the premises around kindergarten are cleaned from pack dogs that can't be played in front of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16308	Thank you. Replica Ambassador Drago Kalabić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16309	Second and final replica chairman. You'll understand why I said this, since you just said that the mayor of Sarajevo is an important position. I must tell you that this mayor has never visited or spoken to us or welcomed us as the most legislative body in the country, and on the contrary, he wished us something else that night. That's not how the mayor of Banja Luka works, that's not right. I expect a public apology from Mr. Komšić all the time for what he did that day, it's not hospitality, it's not household, it wasn't his problem here, and I took the opportunity to say this about his problem. No one can convince me that local communities and even cities can't allocate a lot more resources on this issue, because you'll find items that are certainly less necessary than this. But until now, there's been no attention to them, and everyone's quiet thinking that animals are coming, not by someone else's fault, and it's none of their business, but you can see they're dealing with some other questions. And my public invitation to Mr. Komšić to apologize to the RS MPs for that day of conduct and to come and talk to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16310	I trust my colleague Kalabić that you and I agree that we will have a special agenda point, so we will discuss when it comes directly. 28 The Word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16311	The line sent to you, because I expected you to listen to what I said. You were talking about the consequences, not the causes. And I mean, a huge, huge amount of dogs on the streets is the result of negligence. Chiefs don't do their job, but they're not in all municipalities. Go to Banja Luka and see if you can find a pack of dogs. I've never had a dog attack or anyone in my neighborhood. I don't see dogs. You want to change the law and start killing because your superiors aren't doing it right. So please don't talk about things. Force the local government to do what she does. And until they do, there's no way, even if you accept this law, there's no way to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16312	I was talking about the solutions that we're looking for.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16313	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16314	The word has an MP, Milica Marković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So my replica refers to what my colleague Dervoz said and she tried to convince us that the reasons why we should support this law today are on the side of the fact that the local communities in BiH are not doing their job well, which I don't think is the right reason for cheering, to say that this law is adopted and accepted for the very reason that this situation is not, if it is in Sarajevo, if it is in Zenica, it is not in many municipalities where the chiefs are doing their job. Here I'm going to tell you an example from the municipality where I come from, so in Bijela's mayor who, not now that I'm saying it because he's from my party he's from the SDS, but he needs to be fair and objective and say that two years ago there is no problem in Bijeljina. And the animals on the streets of the town of Bijeljina can be seen as pets who go out with their owners on green surfaces to see them and everyone else, of course, and, to do what they want, which means that there is no reason why we should today support this from aman for nothing the mayors and commissioners do their part of the job. Those who do not work should see how they are forced to do so, but that is not the case with all municipalities, and do not convince us that these are crucial reasons why this Law should be supported. And I certainly agree that if it's a situation where people are exposed to certain dangers and problems, of course we should talk about it and think about how to prevent it, but it's not our job, it's the work of local communities. And you who claim and say this, see what municipalities these are, because I have received dozens of emails that, people have spoken to, NGOs with the aim of supporting what colleague Uzunović has proposed and then I have naturally asked around the citizens, meaning beyond what I see and what I know in the town of Bijeljina, she has been asking 29 citizens, and people in the last two days absolutely have no problem because such animals and these prides of animals are not seen in the streets of Bijeljina. And don't convince us, just try to play that card to get this bill passed, it certainly won't pass if there's no support from the RS MPs, first of all the SNSD Club, that law won't pass today.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16316	Replica, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16317	...respected colleagues to answer my question – Is the RS in force and is the law applicable? Yesterday I heard from the NGO sector that a law on the protection and welfare of animals in which the provision stands, in Article 30, applies in the RS. - animals from a shelter that cannot be adopted, can be killed after 30 days of holding. And if this is the law you've applied, and I've found it on the Internet, applied it and solved it, then I don't know how [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16318	You're the only one who finishes your discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16319	It says. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16320	Thank you. The word has a letter from Ismet Dervoz, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can't figure out how I was so vague that Mrs. Marković's 360 degree twists what I wanted to say in her debate. But in the last session, I said very explicitly, that euthanasia is what is in no way acceptable, that people don't do their jobs, and now we're dealing with the consequences of what someone hasn't done their job, can't lead to our inhumane relationship and animal behavior. Mrs. Majkić and I were undermining the welfare of animals that were not spoken of here at all, and it is in the title of that law. So my discussion went in the direction that, yes, we are aware of the problems, let's see it, the data on 500 bitten people in Zenica are evident, the data that children in kindergarten in Sarajevo are looking for protection is evident, but there is no way to go to euthanasia and kill dogs on shelters, which do not ultimately exist at 99% of BiH. That's what I wanted to say. You need to talk about the problem, you need to look for a way, euthanasia doesn't. And I'm asking Mrs. Marković to follow 30 a little more closely, and if we're not clear enough, I'm going to try to figure out how to say something that can't be dramatically thrown out by what the MP says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16322	Replica Ambassador Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16323	He's practically correcting himself. So, I was just talking about an analysis of the implementation of the existing law and I was saying that we didn't get it, but I checked it out now, I'm told that it's official, that this analysis is officially directed towards Parliament, it's got to be on protocols somewhere, and so on, I want to tell us all that we have now here and that analysis. And maybe it wouldn't be bad if we delayed or pleaded in our first reading, if we all looked at it or... [[no microphone turned on]] Please. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16327	Replica, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16328	Mrs. Dervoz, it's clear to me that in many situations you enjoy being superior and absolutely convincing someone of what you say. But I didn't even mention other things from your address, I've limited myself to the part where you mentioned local communities, because I can't allow it as an MP and that comes from a certain environment where 31 there are no problems, that you unfairly accuse local communities where there is no problem. That's what I've been talking about, and there's no need for you to spend so many words, because sometimes you know in exposure it's more or less.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16329	Ambassador Saša Bursać, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16330	Thank you, Chairman. Here I can hardly wait for these strong replicas to come to order. Like this, I'm sitting here listening and telling you the truth, I don't agree with anyone who's exposed before, and I agree in part with everyone. So there's something that can be taken from everything that's right, and there's a lot to throw away that's wrong. I have three dogs at home and I love dogs right now, and if I didn't like them, I wouldn't have them and feed them and keep strict accounts of them. But that abandoned dogs, stray dogs, wild dogs, call them whatever you want, make trouble, real dogs, that's obvious. That many local communities are not able to solve these problems because they have far greater problems, means social, economic, like this, like Bog knows what things aren't, that they're still fighting about it, it's hard for them. So, it's hard for them, and they have a problem. So they were supposed to be consulted. Very rarely, at least this way I publicly agree with Mr. Belkić, but I will agree absolutely this time, so every word should have come a little more seriously to this. Not a bit more serious than that, so the local communities were to be consulted, and the Veterinary Office should have seen the meaning of all the people that are being touched. To see, so here we are talking mostly about abandoned dogs, stray dogs, so the story is about dogs, but here in these changes there are some other things and I welcome this part that needs to legalize practically bull fighting. It's our tradition, our tradition doesn't need to be given up, and it absolutely needs to be welcomed. But on the other hand, if we have this, it's a communal problem for me, about abandoned dogs need to be solved. We need to get to it seriously. We, I don't think we're competent, so I'm, even though I have my dogs and I know a lot of problems about it, I don't think we're the ones who can drive all the things out here right now to clean up, it's supposed to mean going studioically about it all, including all the ones that have something to do with this and seeing it eventually, means what the solution to the problem would be. The biggest problem is, here's the lady who, Mrs. Nermina, means who suggested changing this law, says she feeds 8 dogs at her cottage, fed 12. And that's nice, so now that you take it from one human aspect it's perfectly okay and that's how it should be and it should be more and it should be, now that you're looking at it from that human side. However, when you look at the other side, probably your cottage is somewhere in the hunting grounds, or somewhere in the pyrode, and when you take that pack of 8 or 12 dogs is a very serious threat, meaning in the hunting grounds, that the hunter's user, and when you take that, right now, we have a very small lanad, means the lanad which are up to a month old, and when you take the fact that, since I'm dealing with this job, people have been tipped off, it means that there's already some damage in a few places from the stray dogs right now on the lanade because they can't hide, or they can't run away from those stray dogs that there are too many, and they're relatively easy to overcome in the hunting grounds, then you can see that there's no one who at their cottages, the house feeds and dogs. So, we need to get rid of them. We need to get them out of there. You have a problem on the other hand when these dogs become strong or violent, then they move, when they can't master the game, they go on an expedition towards domestic animals, so to sheep, 32 goats, and everything else. And then there you have the problem on the other side, moving the action, just like that, moving the action because they're starving. So they have nothing to eat and it's only natural to do harm. It's a problem that needs to be solved in the municipality. I disagree when you say municipalities, municipalities, I repeat, they have far greater problems than this. So the municipalities need to deal with much more serious problems and they need to take care of the mass of other things, because this is, let's say, the last, or marginal problem that needs to be solved as effectively as possible in order not to have these problems. If euthanasia is being done everywhere in Europe, I don't know why it can't be done with us. If it can be solved in a better way and has the meaning of competent institutions, i.e. people dealing with it, a better proposal, I will also accept a better proposal. So I'm closest to Mr. Belkić's discussion when he says he needs the ministry to deal with it, to consult means all people. Don't forget that dogs carry very serious zoonoses, meaning diseases that make people sick, that they're also very dangerous when they walk uncontrollably, when they're hungry, when their health and every other condition is bad. So I don't support killing apriora, but I support solving the problem. Five times more expensive euthanasia than sterilization. That's true, the act of euthanasia itself is far more expensive, however I act, what after? In Banja Luka, we have a case where people are human and feed these animals. However, there are places where people are not able to feed it, or we have environments that are very poor and have this problem with hungry dogs. Hungry dogs do various damages. Here I am, right to tell you, I have a family house or I live in my father's family house where every little dogs roll over the trash kit and I have to do it in the morning, just when I'm getting ready somewhere, and I get out of the house and I see it's chaos, and then I have to get rid of all that junk before I go in front of the house, and then I have to go back and wash my hands and what I know. So as far as it's concerned, it's a disaster, so as far as this problem is concerned, we need to approach it a little more seriously, we need to support this part that's about fighting bulls. There's no bullfight in my neighborhood, but if there's a hundred thousand citizens in one place, it's a very representative set, and I'll always support it. I have to tell you that there was a great deal of interest in training dogs and one legal act in the RS has been denied to people and people are very disappointed about it, and they're disappointed about why people just got together, hung out, trained their dogs, and now they can't do it anymore. I'm everywhere where people get together, where 1,000, 2,000, 3,000 are gathered, not to say 100,000 people and do something that's practically harmless to me for animals, or possibly no danger to humans or animals, so that's absolutely what we should support. You don't need to give up traditions in that part where people have learned simply and that's that bull fight, it's just our tradition. Now that you take Kočićev for what it is, what a set of people it is, and I think that ban the fight of the bulls that Petar Kočić described, means in his works and what our tradition is, of that tradition, I think it's Mrs Dušanka, please, I sat quietly, I didn't speak a single word while you were discussing. Please, please, listen to me, I guess I'm not talking about Bog knows what, I'm talking about a subject that's in the material. So it's our tradition and it doesn't have to give up just because it's someone's idea from the EU. I've got the same memo that came from these NGOs and that, it's all fine, it's all fine, but it's our problem to solve, and we won't make any mistakes here on the European path if we apply only what is applied in the EU. So I ask the Ministry that 33 would not be bad, and you, Mr. Minister, before you plead and say a few words about this, do you have the will to work, or your ministry to deal with this problem, because from previous discussions, we are wandering, each of us have one, another opinion, and I think you should definitely say something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16331	Comrade Domazet, I suggest you give up the replica, as my colleague Bursać has also made very clear the arguments that this problem exists in both entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16332	I'm that, this is qualified as a replica, but I only have two questions that I'm asking in further discussion from competent people to answer, because I'm in a dilemma. First question – Does sterilization remove dog aggression? Secondly, are human conditions when you put dogs in asylum where you keep them for life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16333	The word has an MP, Senad Šepić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16334	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am, as far as I can see, how this debate moves along this agenda point, it really shows that we recognize this problem and that the very initiative of my colleague Nermine Zaimović-Uzunović makes sense. As she will eventually be resolved, I think it should be a deal for all of us and I think here, especially through these last discussions we're going in that direction. Namely, I'm, I'm suggesting that, when it comes to this present-day thing, we keep it in the process, to delay the debate, to delay today's debate, or..., pardon the statement until we get this analysis that Beriz was talking about. We requested this analysis in February. Here's the minister here and the co-workers from the ministry, I think it should've been delivered earlier. We all see how much trouble we have because every day we're buried with this, as it's called, e-mails, reactions, both of us and thirds, and on the other hand it's obvious that all of us, and here we're aware that we have a big problem, not only a problem but a big one. She is exactly a colleague of Dušanka Majkić when she says, there is a law, there are clear provisions in the law, how it should be done, and that is the thing that someone else should do there, it is no longer our concern. But I don't agree with this background that it's none of our business. This Parliament passed the Law in 2008. Is this problem smaller or bigger since 2008? Here's when you do the analysis, and now that you look at this, yesterday we had a representative from the ministry, or the Office of Veterinary, who, from an opportunity through his discussion, pointed out that this problem is evident and that he is on the rise. And when you look at it, let's say the pressures and demands of the citizens on the ground, then you really see it that way. So, because citizens expect us as state parliamentarians who 34 have passed the law, so let's say whether this law is really what solves their problem or which makes us bound to define ourselves in this sense and to change it. There's something we have to do about it. So here I propose, on behalf of the SDA Club, that, since there is an intensity that we are solving the problem in this sense, to postpone today's statement on this proposal, that in the meantime we get this analysis and this information all of us and I suggest that together with the people of the profession, with the Ministry, with the Veterinary Office, also in the meantime this colleague Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic also discuss in some way trying to bring these attitudes closer, but I am one of the people who believes that this should remain alive and that we should, therefore, lead this thing to a certain way to the end. We must have an answer when it comes to this important problem. And on the other hand, one of the conclusions that I'm going to come up with about this point, which would be useful for us in our next parliamentary work, is to think about passing law on law enforcement. So here we are today 5 years after 2008 as we passed the law, and on this example here we see that we have the law, that we have solutions that could be acceptable that could be useful, and on the other hand, we see that the problem is increasing. This time, this is not on official duty for us to come here to the bench, but in fact, by the reaction of the citizens and the real problems we have in the field, this problem has come before us. It would not be bad if the adoption of laws after a certain time, and this is not a practice unknown, we have such practice in many modern and regulated countries, so that the Council of Ministers has an obligation after 3 years or 5 years to carry out an analysis and assessment of the applicability, efficiency and implementation of each law adopted here in the Parliamentary Assembly, and that we here, after a certain time, have a debate. So, if we had had had had had, as far as this Law is concerned, we would have acted before, and in some ways we would have put those responsible for the implementation of this Law into office sooner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16335	Thank you. The word has an MP, Lazar Prodanović. My colleague Majkić used two lines already, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16336	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to try for a moment, just to say my point. I was abstention, therefore, on the principles of this Law on the Constitutional Commission when it was discussed. I think that here we should have mutual understanding in the sense that we respect all the proposals, so they're legitimate and other proposals, that the point is that it's extremely important that we have a serious debate on this. I respect very much my colleague Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović, who, with enormous statistics, has literally stepped into this and said that this is also a European standard, which she advocates. 35 I therefore thank the Council of Ministers for the analysis we have received, so I am speaking for the members of the Constitutional Commission concerning this issue, the problem is therefore in the whole question, so the non-implementation of the Law for these four years since it was adopted and the fundamental problem when we are now analysing that we have implemented this Law we would not have discussed this at all today. Therefore, sterilisation itself would reduce reproductiveity, i.e. absolutely disabling reproductiveity in dogs that are subjected to this method, hence the inability to reproduce, while at the same time reducing aggression which is extremely significant in terms of attack on animals and transmission of infectious diseases of which is certainly the most dangerous rabies. I don't think the local authorities are acting, in that sense, that these problems would be solved. And at the same time, I think that this analysis is extremely important, but to respect very much that Mr Belkić pointed out this problem before, I think that we have a fundamental problem and colleagues have previously pointed out, in order to have a public debate on the implementation of the Animal Protection and Well-being Act, to put all these proposals as part of the debate, so in the course of this debate and to have opinions. In this way we would come to whether or not we should work on the amendments and additions of this bill. I don't think we should make a statement today about this proposal, so we should postpone the debate and maybe have a public debate on the implementation of the law. And I'm going to say one sentence that's been said here in the final part where the Council of Ministers says, the problem created and created by man for decades doesn't arise overnight, the path to solving is only answers and a consolidated approach to human dog population management in accordance with the existing law. I think this sentence is very important, she points to it. There is also another problem that needs to be considered from..., said counterpart Šepić, it would be necessary that when the law is passed, I am not only talking to those in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, so one of the members who says that after 5 years of the law's entry into force, an analysis of the application, even if possible before the need arises, because then we would have the effectiveness of the application of the law. This is not the only law that... we have the Law and the medicines, the laws on education and a series of others that are unfortunately, often being a dead letter on paper, and then producing problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16337	I knew an experienced MP like Prodanović would use this initiative by Šepić to order. The word is from Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see there have been a lot of debates today, so when it comes to amending and supplementing the Animal Protection and Well-being Act and a large number of us in the discussion, as I am about to now, we're kind of repeating ourselves. We have all seen that this is an obvious problem, meaning in the entire BiH area and for all its citizens no matter where they live. This Law, its amendments, refers to the amendments to that Law which was passed five years ago, which is essentially not applicable. And this, and the problem is obvious and it is, therefore, mainly about solving stray dogs' problems. The obvious problem is, therefore, 36 large numbers of stray dogs in all communities, in all municipalities, is whether, but the current Law has allowed all those who wanted to implement it and implement it on the ground to spend it, that the number of stray dogs has decreased significantly or simply started to apply the Law since 2008 in the way in which it should be applied, which this Parliament cannot possibly influence... today these stray dogs would not even be. The law clearly predicted there in which way, this problem would be solved, that is sterilization. When we talk about sterilization, probably all those dogs would have been extinct naturally by now if they had been sterilized in 2008 or 2009, probably. So there wouldn't be any. But here it is, and the promoter says that the implementation of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to this Act does not require either financial resources that will burden BiH's budget, but are those environments or municipalities that need to implement it. I am now not aware of the technique itself and this implementation possibly of the Law to pass these amendments to the Law, to adopt this amendment in this part that speaks of euthanasia, about the collection of these animals, about putting these animals into shelter, about keeping them, about keeping me, about five, ten, or 60 days as set an example here for certain countries, and then euthanize them, is it, in a way that human medicine, that is, human veterinary. And it costs a lot, or I don't know now who's going to be doing the collection, bringing these animals, catching them on the ground, how we're going to get them into some kind of shelter, is it, to keep them there, possibly if someone wants to take them over, is it, or to euthanize them. So there's more to thinking about how to solve this problem, which is obvious and which we all want to solve, all of us. But it's obvious that the existing law, which I think is a very good law, means, but he, he didn't implement those environments there, so where they should be implemented. What Col. Prodanović said about the public debate depends on the municipality to the municipality, from canton to canton in the Federation, people would react differently to this, some might be doing sterilization, and in any case they should ask the profession. We've got all the problems with, is, uh, house mice, is it like that or the Polish mice that get into the house for a while, then we're putting somewhere in the corners of those poisons that are, like, prescribed, so through this medical vet they're prescribing, is that, then our mouse died? Also, if we want to do so in a much cheaper way if we want to euthanize dogs, means put somewhere in the periphery of the place or the community of the bait, is whether, which will lead to certain disorders within the organism, one example, hemolosis of the blood, where in three or four days, you will have a sick animal and eventually a dead animal that someone needs to put away again, the one. And it's a much cheaper way, and it's also human, it's also human. And this is, euthanasia is I have to tell you, an expensive process and I think at this point that it's not in the first place, and by sterilizing these dogs significantly, it significantly reduces dog aggression, and that's both professionally and scientifically proven. And I think that, I say, in that direction, that should go for me to get, and my suggestion is that we don't possibly plead, because I'm afraid of such a significant problem that we're not going to solve, that it's going to fail and yes, and that it really needs to be solved. Of course, yes, this must be the most important and responsible for those who conduct local politics, here is where counterpart Kalabić spoke of the mayor of Sarajevo, Mr Ivo Komšić that he is responsible, is not responsible for Sarajevo dogs, he is a recently chief, I think he is responsible earlier, is he. He did, that one, instigated us here, but here's an example of our leadership and Bulgaria, so they also held their own there two days ago, not only prisoners, not only means whether, parliamentarians, but also the government,... he did and got beaten, and they are EU members, you see? 37 So we have to solve this problem, I think we need to find, I think, a compromise between these two kind of solutions that were discussed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16339	The word has an MP Adnan Bašić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16340	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm listening to all this and I'm wondering, how much do we even know about animals? I'll soon be 70 years old, never in my life has a dog attacked me, and not a dog bit me. And the two greatest loves I've ever had in my family and human beings are horses and dogs. They are the first, even for many of us, to be declared noble, and they are, and we have long forgotten them, and our horses kill these, don't they? I would like one of my Hercegovac to put this here as a problem, what about the only wild horse herd in Europe, that's our wealth in Herzegovina, and God damn them, some evil people. As soon as I hear the story of killing me getting all creeped up, we can put it in the clouds that it's euthanasia, that it's sleep, for me it's killing one of the biggest friends of man. And the proposal of this statement that dogs are wild, that they're instincted to attack a man, that's how much he talks about us and how much we even know an animal who has lived beside us for centuries, for millenniums, has definitely given up between the calls of the wild and the calls of service and socializing with man. And well said Mrs. Majkić, she seems to have told me the first thing, we're dealing with the consequences today and we know what's causing it. Unfortunately, the horror that lasted here for over four years has led to the fact that all our domestic dogs had to become wilder, madder I would say, that's a little better, more adequate expression. And now we have a consequence, how do we solve it? We have to figure out one thing first, killing doesn't solve anything, I belong to a generation, especially Sarajlija here, a couple who are really much younger than me, but they probably remember it, famous schintores or tents, depending on who calls them, with their car with one horse and a cage on it. And I was one of the Sarajevo children who, with pleasure, always tried to cheat with the help of those dogs' advocates, free those captured dogs, the famous Sarajevo avalanches whose race can't be determined alive. You can't talk about animals and look for a solution to the situation we're in if you don't know it (?If you don't know them, whether you love them or not, it's your private business, but if you don't know them, then ask the experts. And there are many people who have said not only is she, many say the euthanasia of these animals is expensive, and it hurt me. So if it's cheap we'll still kill them, right? Every kind of killing is a human sin, we raised those dogs, they didn't fall from Mars, they didn't come out of the ocean. These dogs are made of us, the citizens of this country, and they're our problem. The fact that we're who we are and we're dealing with, here's how many years since the war once the result of which we are the cause, and we don't know the right answer yet, is our honor. If the only solution is to kill it all again, why are we rebelling against the former system that simply did it open, it had a Shintor service, there were hunters who went out into the streets every Sunday morning, shooting and killing dead dogs every step of the way. Will you do that? So be open, don't be like that, we won't be like that, we'll be nice, we'll just give the shots, and we'll kill them. Well done, I'm against it. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16341	We have two other MPs from those present in the O.R., and then let's hear the minister who also signed up. The word has an MP, Emir Kabil, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16342	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Uh, first of all, I would like to welcome the initiative of a distinguished colleague to supplement this Law, but I cannot agree with the principles of this Law for several reasons. When we adopt some new laws or new principles, some new, updated law, we usually refer to the laws of a much more developed and socially stable country, in this case the EU. And that's why I'm going to give you a very interesting example that I met when it comes to free animals or stray dogs in one of Europe's metropolises, which is Atina. Atina had the largest number of stray dogs four or five years ago, something perhaps like Tuzla today, according to the number of inhabitants. Both the people and the MPs tried to introduce through the legislative regulation the institution of the kennel, what we had before, or to introduce the institution of euthanasia. Of course, as Greece is the EU very quickly, the answer came from the EU that this law is absolutely inhumane and that it cannot be applied, nor applied to the EU, and of course, Grk as Grk have found a very smart solution very quickly. And that's the solution to catch an animal, vaccination, cure and release. And today in Athens, if you were in Athens recently you can see thousands of dogs and every dog has its number on the computer list, it's vaccinated and absolutely harmless, I repeat absolutely harmless. So, talking about euthanasia of an animal is absolutely discriminatory in my opinion and I as an MP will never support such an idea that in the morning, free vehicles go and kill dogs in the city. On the contrary, I will support the idea that the local community, here we have an example and local communities, said in Bijeljina that the problem has been solved, that it is simply to try to solve this problem in a way that the profession, in this case the veterinary, inspectional authorities, are maximumly engaged, to identify these animals, to vaccinate them, because, I repeat, the difference between a stray dog when it comes to treatment and a pet who has the best conditions in the world, is the same treatment of a dog living in a multimillionaire and a stray dog, that is the EU's premise, which means that one and another dog must carry out the same procedure when it comes to identifying parasitic diseases, when it comes to sterilisation. Let the dogs walk free, they are harmless and harmless, we have many other more dangerous problems. Therefore, I would like to welcome the initiative of the honourable MPs, but I can never agree that the motto of this law is euthanasia. The previous law has not been applied, Article 14 has clearly defined which animals are laughing and may and must euthanize, so I want to make my personal point, that simply local communities have to find additional funds, which are not usually in their budgets, to solve this problem. And surely if we approach it like this, we'll have similar situations like Bijeljina, I mean positive, or some other environments where they don't have a stray dog problem. Thank you. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16343	Thank you. His constructive contribution to this debate would also like to be given by MP Slavko Jovičić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'll start with support, because it's the freshest of my colleagues' Kabil, of course, I support a lot of exposure, so now I don't want anyone to get angry, not to forget someone, but here's Mr. Šepić and Bursać and colleagues Marković and Majkić, but something to remind me of. With the circumstances when this Law was passed on the protection and welfare of animals, I was chaired by that commission and there was no one we had consulted, the European Commission, the EU, all of them were pressuring, NGOs, associations, there are colleagues here who were and who will remember, and I think that Mr Mehmedović was then with me on the commission, we call the 15 associations holding bulls and today it was heard, the wrong term, the term, what kind of cord, the cord is known to pick and kill and against it, the law does not allow that and we define it in accordance with the principles that are acceptable to impediment of the ox, which is logical. Could I, perhaps, make a mistake in the year, prevent a 250-year-old Corrida bush, a tradition? Corrida in Cevljanovici where 100,000 people came and I went there twice. And whoever looks at them with his own eyes, and sees a weaker one on the television, and does not want him to stab him, he has given him up the hill, or down the hill, or into the people, he flees mostly. So it's not a threat against, nor does it treat that law that we've passed and we've all been commended. I ask you nicely, if you look at it five days ago in Spain, they let the streets of the ox loose, and they killed that people, and they, I will not insult you, but what a courage it is to run before the ox that will reach it, for surely it is faster than it, and who will beat it on horns. Well, you looked at it with your own eyes like I did. Next, I'm talking here about the law of abandoned dogs,
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16345	Let's go back from Pamplona to BiH. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16346	Oh, here, that's, that's, I'm coming back. Mr. Bećirović is coming back right now, you don't need to, so I'm saying I took part in making this bill and the law is the problem that's not being implemented, as soon as something's abandoned, so no one needs it. You won't find it and it's an animal, you won't find an abandoned lamb anywhere, the abandoned calf is gone, everyone's there at the table and the lamb is going well, there's no abandoned. It's this thing that no one needs, it's like abandoned. And this law exists in the RS, it applies, Mrs. Marković mentioned Bijeljina and I will mention pasti, but you know who doesn't mention anything else, doesn't mention villages where people don't go, so they can see what dogs do there. Mr. Bećirović and you mentioned Zenica, 500 attacks. But imagine some village where you've never been there, geographically you can locate it, and of course I wasn't, what do dogs do there, do we know, do we have any information? And now that I've looked at the number of participants around this point, I have to finish, so I'm really wondering if we're going to start taking care of people here sometime. And the dogs after this discussion, even mine, from this moment on, will start walking on 40 two, too pleased as I fight for them, too pleased. Come on, people, let's get serious and get these topics that are in the interest of the people, and this is the topic for the people, but that these local communities are starting to worry and implement this Law. And to repeat what counterpart Kalabić said about this mayor, it's not a hit on the mayor, so the biggest problems are here, but fortunately no MP will bite, because we come in cars, we don't walk, we don't come from above down some slopes. If I were not to caricate, I had just told you how this Law came about and received praise from the EU and said, Mr Bećirović also knows he was then an MP, and received his commendation, everyone told you every honour that you passed this Law, this Law is excellent. But today I am asking a key question and it all comes down to what my colleague has proposed – why is the law that was passed in 2008 not being implemented? That's the problem with all the problems, and I don't need that minister giving me answers, when he can't give them, the minister can't make the mayor of someone or the mayor of the municipality say fata dogs, when he can't run with himself, or count on himself because his budget is empty, everything there is normally empty and what he's going to do. And to finish, I'm looking forward to this number of people being reported, but I'm looking forward to something else, so let's start taking care of people, and this is a concern for people, and to start that law that we've passed, trust him there's nothing wrong, just to implement and implement in one part of this country, and that's the Federation in the RS, so you can tell me that I prefer the RS, get a lot and almost to the details of the funeral in many municipalities, the colleague mentioned Bijeljina, I can list 20 municipalities even where the funeral is. Although there are problems there as well as there are in Zenica and everywhere and let's work it out once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16347	Ambassador Zijad Jagodić and then we'll give the word to the minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16348	Thank you. I didn't want to be special on this agenda point, but I see it is necessary that based on previous speakers it can be concluded that this bill will probably not be adopted today, but the problem is certainly evident. What I would particularly like to point out, my thinking about this problem is that we can definitely change all the laws, but if the law that would adopt eventually not be implemented in a way that has not been implemented and practically laws respected from previous periods, I don't think that any special effect will be achieved either, neither would this be achieved. Where's the key problem? The problem is, in my opinion, in all local communities, we can definitely say that the mayors or even the presidents of local communities, they have to locate what positions they are, whether they are schools, whether they are kindergartens, whether they are bus stations and so on. where there is just a danger of stray dogs when it comes to children, older ones, saboteurs, people with disabilities, and so forth. I think it is necessary, in my opinion, that the Council of Ministers, together with the Veterinary Office, in a way in three parts define this issue and make a specific plan, propose the most appropriate plan to address this problem where urban parts, suburban 41 parts and ultimately, remain populated places where there is a threat of bites, bites and so on. dogs, mostly dogs, not just stray dogs. What I can say directly, if I had a neighbor who had practically had a dog, I don't even know what his name is, but some kind of, boxer some, something fierce when he has teeth like that that, it seems to me that without some, some sticks, some sticks wouldn't have come out of the house out, because definitely never, ever, ever, when it comes to solving this problem in this way, I believe for the sake of my children and for my own safety would have suggested all possible methods to eliminate it, whether or not. But the fact is that this Law which was proposed, the Animal Protection and Animal Wellbeing Act, I studied the law in Slovenia and it is called Animal Protection Act, the Animal Protection Act, Croatia also had the Animal Protection Act a dozen years ago, so they introduced the Animal Protection and Animal Well-being Act, which is what we, however, did 10 years after that, Croatia reintroduced the Animal Protection Act, and we continue to go with the Animal Protection and Well-being Act. I think we're just copying some things, nothing indigenous, we're not autonomously contributing through our regulations, to our problems, to our situation. I think it is most necessary, I think, that the best thing to do is try to solve exactly the worst problem, and that's the problem where these bites occur that inspection, i.e. veterinary cells and all those who are competent under existing laws, are to eliminate those who are dangerous to humans. And the others, first of all the smaller ones who are even cute, I believe you wouldn't have the heart to, uh, access the killing. And when it comes to killing, also with the Director of the Office of Veterinary of Slovenia, I was saying, "Why don't they have – why don't they have a word to kill?" He says no, it's a criminal offense. However, in our laws many are mentioned and states the word kill. But if that's the case, it's a crime. Then I asked – what word do you terminologically use for it? It says to confiscate. Well, I'd ask that we try and find a solution to confiscate what's dangerous, what's not to let go, because as one of the speakers said, we're primarily to blame for this kind of mass that's kind of a problem today, which is essentially not. But the problem is probably in us, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16349	I thank my colleague Jagodić, who has translated the provisions of the law from Slovenia into Bosnian. Replica Adnan Bašić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16350	Although right now, let's excuse my predecessor colleague, just a small one replica, precisely our ignorance of what we're talking about, which is the best man's friends in this case of dogs, of course that this terrible phenomenon that has astounded the world at first came to BiH, is the creation of races to fight so-called. Half beasts as many kinologists call them. They're not, my dear colleague, they're not normal dogs, they're wild dogs, they're horrible dogs, they're fighting dogs, sometimes in many nations, who had few soldiers raised for fighting dogs, so they took part in wars. Today they fight between themselves or against people. Just remember the horrors in America when the later law prohibits that kind of dog and that kind of training, that among 100,000 white people if there's one black man, he's going to get 42 out of all those 100,000 white people and grab and tear that black guy down, they're trained and trained dogs for that sort of thing. Unfortunately, this horror has spread to BiH and probably some of these specimens have strayed on our streets, and they should be dealt with in another way, I agree completely, but I am talking about a huge number of quite ordinary dogs that we all need to know very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16351	The word has a foreign trade and economic relations minister, Mr Mirko Šarović, please. Here's what we'll ask you to do as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16352	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs and MPs, I will try to really be brief and perhaps at the beginning to say that perhaps the most important thing or the most important goal of this initiative is being achieved in some way by the public, so this problem is being brought to the public and we will discuss this, as far as I understand three times. Last time we were here in the Parliamentary Assembly, today and probably when we discuss this information, namely an analysis relating to the implementation of the law itself. And in that sense, I do see the greatest benefit of attention to this problem. I also want to get to know you that the Ministry of Veterinary, or the Office of BiH, has prepared the appropriate analysis that this Parliament has also requested, this analysis has passed the Council of Ministers and contains a series of measures. I am convinced that this analysis here will be found in this House as soon as possible. When it comes to this initiative, to really be as specific as I promised myself, I want to say that from our point of view it is not enough, not at the highest level, here I am trying to choose words and to respect the applicant of the initiative, there are a number of vague problematic definitions that are not, I would say, in accordance with certain standards, European standards. And I would say that, the most important question, the conceptual approach is something that we have different attitudes about. No country has, at least the European country has not resolved this issue by euthanasia, and I would say that euthanasia is also foreseen by the existing law for sick dogs and dangerous dogs and it is perfectly clear that this approach means how many advocates there are for you from our people in the office to see how many e-mails and requests, I would say they are measured for hundreds, for that approach that is in the current law. So if there's a need for some professional explanation, there's our representatives from the office who might be able to do a better quality and better to pass on than I can. I want this opportunity to say, that the solution to the implementation of the Law is our Law is European, it is also enforceable, this, in cahoots with this, this, the adoption of this Law and the adoption of four regulations we practically closed Chapter 12, so we have aligned this area with the requirements of Brisel, i.e. with the requirements of European legislation. To implement the law, we need more money, we need more responsibilities and more particular responsibilities of the owner or former owners of stray dogs, and we are trying to resolve this by adopting the fifth law, or the fifth regulation, forgive me, about the identification by which the stray dogs would tie up with earlier owners and making 43 of this act is near the end, I would say, and he should soon find himself in the procedure and he would significantly overcome certain issues, dilemmas and still present here in debate with MPs. And the solution is that on this one, I would say, the bell, the alarm, I call it, we conduct a debate on the report, or an analysis of law enforcement, to consider the proposed measures and to tighten the responsibility and to make it the greatest benefit of this initiative in that sense is, I would say, the proposal from our ministry. So, to take advantage of all the good in this initiative, but if the amendment and the addition of the law in our view didn't contribute to anything, it wouldn't solve this issue, because we really have a European quality law, but we need to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16353	I thank the Honorable Minister. I'm closing item 5 of the agenda. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Voluntary Law, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-30/13 of 10.06.2013. (first reading) I'm opening a debate. The word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16355	So here's to short, to be, and to say that this law shouldn't be supported, the first reason is that it's a law that doesn't have a constitutional basis. The second reason was that it was adopted in the Council of Ministers by revoted RS ministers, the third reason that the area is in the exclusive jurisdiction of entities and the fourth in RS is already in force of the RS Volunteering Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16356	The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16357	So here's after this argument and Mrs. Majkić's firm attitude, there's a question of whether it's worth anything to say at all, but here. So it is absolutely necessary to pass such a law at BiH level, regardless of what entities have arranged this area. Unfortunately, it went the other way instead of having how popularly domesticated the name framework law, and then entity-developed laws and uniquely done this area in BiH, we now have a very messy situation. So, respecting, or understanding what Mrs. Majkić says, there remains an empty space, we have two entity 44 laws, the Brcko District has no law, so it comes from BiH institutions, BiH authorities and so on. practical volunteering is not arranged. Because entity laws obviously didn't deal with it. So, we will support this Law regardless of the small chances that it will be supported in the first reading, but here are the motions for a few remarks, that is, my thinking. The name of the law itself says – A preliminary law on the volunteering of BiH, I assume that the proposer thought that it was the state law and so on, but it is understood when Parliament adopts it by BiH that it is the state law, of course. It was better to say -- volunteering in BiH institutions. Maybe, good morning, good morning, maybe things would be clearer, right? But in addition, for example, in article 6, you say the definition that a volunteer is the one who volunteers in BiH's space. You can't say that by this law because it's governed by entity law, so under, obviously there was no communication and harmonisation of the existing state and attempt, so to speak, by introducing regulations that would solve what's uncovered. You can't change at this point, there are entity laws and entities certainly aren't in the mood to give up those laws. So other than that very name and so on. I think some formulations, this is all really well-intentioned, in Article 2, you say, first, first point, you say – volunteering is organized by the organizer of volunteering. It is enough that you said that the organizer of volunteering within the meaning of this Act are the authorities of the BiH and so on. This sentence is absolutely unnecessary and quite like this, to say this, contradictory. There are things, of course this would be more debates for a second reading, there are things that are contactations, not norms. It is clear that the role and importance of volunteering is important, that the role and importance of volunteering should be passed on to children and young people through education in the educational institutions of BiH. You say one kind of recommendation, it's necessary, but it's not a norm, it's a law. But here's this, not to waste your time, I hope, uh, that the MPs from the SNSD will miss this law until the second reading, so let's try to change it in this direction that I was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16358	The word has an emissary, Aleksandra Pandurević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16359	Thank you, Chairman. I'll be brief, and I'll look back on this, but we'll tell you what's going on, Mr. Kalabić, be patient. We have no intention of praising you, but we can't trouble you when you're right. As distinguished counterpart Majkić RS has said, this law can be called a voluntary law in BiH institutions, under this name it would lead to a truly absurd situation. We have before us a law that has been prescribed by the law of the RS, Mr. Belkić, and a very bad law, a law that has proved to be immeasurable, overcome, a law that has caused enormous problems. And the SNSD when it passed that law after a few years, Mr. Kalabić, did you see that it is bad and what is good is that it is the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, because this law is as bad as it is prescribed here, and which is prescribed by the 45 Federation in the same text, RS has adopted a new draft law that is far better than this one and, of course, the SNSD will adopt this time also in the National Assembly and the amendment of the SDS, is that right Mr. Kalabić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16360	Replica, MP Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16361	So, I didn't speak nor did I go into details because it is about first reading, but here you have given a kind of argument that it would be good if we did this area uniquely in BiH, is it possible to fix this law, Mrs. Pandurević listen to me, so I didn't talk about entity law and the law at BiH level, I was talking about the area. So let's try to harmonise these two existing entity laws in BiH institutions. Is that possible based on this text, I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16362	Drago Kalabić replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16363	So here's the way to say when it comes to this Law, of course, here's this suggestion of colleagues going towards possible possible settlement, so if there's room from the Council of Ministers to look for means in some way in accordance with these suggestions, if it's not going to be in some way as it's going to be and how it's announced, but really if there were to be a change and respect of these suggestions that could possibly be discussed in some new setting of the situation and that. When it comes to replicas, colleague Pandurević, I tried to help, or to warn Mr. Belkić not only depends on us and that there are SDS in front of you, but it seems that we are the only one who sees her, no one else sees her. And that we keep trying to warn you all that people are there, that there are both SDS and don't just look at us that we're the only ones who decide and who, so when everyone forgets about the SDS, we want to remind that they're both there and yes, they're right next to us and yes. And as far as the law is concerned, what counterpart Pandurević was saying is from that famous joke when a police officer punishes Husa for a traffic violation of a bicycle, and he laughs and says how much longer he's going to punish Hase. So why would he? He says, "He has no bicycle at all, how much punishment he will have, for he has imposed ten punishments on this. So, for a law that the SDS never passed, none. You're talking about the law passed by the SNSD and that the SNSD in the procedure and fixed, they don't change, they don't change, they don't change, they don't change, they don't change, they don't change the laws. Of course, you have the right to say it's bad, not all laws change because they're bad, laws change because certain times do their part and better solutions are shown, not because they are. But it is also your right to, we have done a good law and now we are doing an even better law and in new amendments we will do the best law, that is, we will work after 2014 and you will praise us again as you have now commended us. Thank you. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16364	...in election results, the replica of Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16365	Mr. Kalabić that you have decided to be behind 2014 a constructive opposition and all our suggestions are welcome, I think in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Uh, Mr. Belkić, I'm afraid, we're staying here together and don't worry, this Mr. Belkić law, if it could be fixed and in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia would be his changes and additions, it wouldn't be going to the full adoption of a new law. And what would we come up with if we adopted this in this form at all? We would have come to the fact that the RS then better law, which I hope will adopt, must change and align its provisions with the law that has been overcome and which is not right. I think we should work this out fine today, so if even this one, they didn't find it necessary for themselves to at least the solutions from Serbia or Croatia, here's a solution from Croatia to look to take advantage of, then wait for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt the law again and rewrite the new one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16366	Ambassador Boško Tomić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16367	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to react, uh, since I was the legislator of that law at RS level, so they said it wasn't good, some of us copied it, and it proved practical. I have to say that a good number of people volunteered because they had the right to health care based on that volunteering, they had the right to a warm meal and I have to say that a good number of young people college-educated completed volunteering and thus gained the conditions that they could apply and apply to some of the places where they've been looking for an internship for a year. We even had the idea to make it a commitment, but there was not enough funding through compulsory education to ensure that RS could continue volunteering for a year to obtain basic conditions so that it could apply. So, fellow Members, that law I had the good fortune and the opportunity to propose and we did it as best and you accepted it then. Although Mr. Bojić was then and voted for that law so. But already when it comes to this law that it's only said in the institutions I think it might be discussed, because it should be at the level of the institutions to solve the question that people can volunteer in these joint institutions, because it's not a great cost, and it's an extremely significant and huge benefit for the people who need to take that internship to be able to apply to one of the competitions tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16368	The word has an MP, Petar Kunić, please. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16369	Thank you, Chairman. This doesn't appear in Parliament for the first time, it has appeared several times. In fact, the Council of Ministers is asked whether he knows the powers of Parliament, or the competence of the BiH state, and why is this given to Parliament, which is why, do unprofessional people work there when they do not use the procedures provided for additional powers for the BiH state? They have mechanisms, there's co-ordination of the Presidency, so there's a possibility, there's an entity agreeing to transfer some jurisdiction to the joint institutions. I would ask you, if you have competent representatives, if you don't do it anymore, there's no point in going to the records, that RS representatives have rejected the law. And why did they refuse? Someone's fault. And this is repeating itself, and we will never accept something that is, which is not within constitutional provisions. So that's where I'd say, maybe I'll go too far, but there's a little bit of insolence about this sort of thing. These things are not simple and I think they have their own procedure and there we are all very sensitive and working by the Constitution. If they do not know yours, your professional service to work under the Constitution, replace them with others to work in accordance with legal regulations and with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16370	No more reports. If Alija Sirotanović and Abdurahman Babajić knew about this Law, we wouldn't have a mile of railroad today, but good. I'm closing the debate on item six. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures This bill was not adopted in the same text in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. The Joint Committee on Harmonisation of the text of the Act delivered the Report on 17.07.2013. The Commission agreed to the text in such a way as to reject the amendment which was subject to the consent and which was adopted in the House of Representatives. You got the report. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. 48 We move to the eighth point of the agenda, Ad. 8. Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption for 2012, issue 05/8-50-19-273-1/13 of 14.05.2013.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16373	As chairman of the Commission for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption, first of all, let me say a few words as to why this Report is here today. As you know, we have recently adopted amendments to this law where the Commission has been defined to be an independent body of the Parliamentary Assembly with the precise powers set out and that the Commission submits once a year a report to the Parliamentary Assembly, it is a report on its work. Why did we feel that the Parliamentary Assembly needed to get acquainted with this report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency? Well, for the reason that perception in general of the work of this Agency is in public such that many find justification for the conviction, many believe that it needs to be done far more and that the Strategy and the Action Plan for the Prevention of Corruption are not met, for this reason the Commission decided after considering this report to be forwarded to homes. Here, as you can see, we've been reviewing the report on two occasions. The first time we didn't adopt the report and we returned it, because it was the first report the Agency filed, and we returned it to the Agency to fix the report. We have instructed them to make these changes within 15 days and to submit the new amended Report to the Commission. And that report was re-evaluated at the next session and adopted. At the same time, we adopted, not only the Report, but we have proposed, so that the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly should have a debate on this agenda point in their agendas. There are also several conclusions here that should be adopted to help the Agency speed up its work, as it has obtained conditions, received a number of employees, provided space for action, received budgets, provided appropriate rules. And according to this, as you can see, the Commission, with 5 votes in favour, 2 votes abstention and no votes against, adopted a conclusion that speaks – To initiate the procedure, with the consent of the Parliamentary Assembly, according to the Council of Ministers to find additional funds from the Budget of BiH for the employment of six civil servants and two employees in the Agency, and to find the means to support the implementation of the Action Plan for the implementation of the 2009 Strategy. 2014 We're not sure it's possible to do this, because if there's enough resources in the budget, and resources from the reserve, we don't know that, but here's the conclusion that we haven't reached agreement. And the following – The Parliamentary Assembly gives full support to the further efforts of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency to prevent corruption at all 49 levels, as well as to support the implementation of activities in the Action Plan for the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. The Commission unanimously, therefore, adopted with all 7 votes in favour – that the Parliamentary Assembly requires the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption to take all measures in 2013 to meet its obligations under the Anti-Corruption Strategy and to suggest to the Agency to launch an initiative against the BiH competent institutions to adequately address the issue of permanent accommodation of the Agency in line with the Council of Ministers' decision. So these two conclusions are unanimously supported, here is the director of the Agency, and these are the basic things that are tied up..., Parliament needs to know what the Agency has done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16374	The word has an MP, Niko Lozančić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16375	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, here we have for the first time a report from the Agency on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption even though the Act on this Agency was passed three or four years ago. This is the 2012 report. In the year until 01.12.2012, the Agency worked at the level of directors and two deputies, and that is all that the Agency has received from all of us who, declaredly, persistently, publicly support the fight against corruption and activities and these agencies, as well as all other agencies that should fight corruption. She had no fixed accommodation, she had no number of employees, she had no budget, so she had no conditions to realize in 2012 at least a fraction of the powers she had prescribed by law. In 2013, she entered with three new employees who received at the end of 2012, i.e. 01.12.2012, and about half this year she managed to receive another number of employees, well below the capacity planned for how successful this agency's work was. And this agency, along with the situation that it is located as a tenant in, in some, unconditional areas, by some conditional means that it is not located in the premises owned by BiH institutions, is still likely to be subject to unrealistic expectations, and on the other hand is hampered by the inability to do so financially, materially, by the human resources etc. And I think that all of us together, if we want from this, or similar agencies in this country, to really ensure the purpose of their existence, the establishment, etc., we will have to behave more honestly at times when the funds are allocated, through the budget, to this Agency, we will have to be more generous in the means to work this Agency. We're going to have to provide this Agency with a number of employees, because at this point in this Agency, there is not a single employee in the affairs of analysis, and it should deal with the prevention and coordination of the fight against corruption. And how to deal with it if you don't have a minimum of analytical indicators of what's causing it, what happens, how does it occur, where corruption occurs, etc. So we will also have to provide support in the human resources of this Agency, and then we will certainly and rightly be able to expect reports from this Agency, to ensure that the work of this Agency is recognised and ensured, means what we would all like, I hope, as a result of this Agency's work to reduce the corruption rate in BiH and that this 50 Agency has enough capacity to propose to us, the Parliamentary Assembly, solutions to improve legal regulation in order to eliminate the origins of corruption through the laws. At this point, estimating the circumstances in which the Agency acted, it was better said, in 2012, we can take to the knowledge of this Report because it had no minimum conditions to function in 2012. And here, with the support of these conclusions, which are proposed by the Commission, makes assumptions that by the end of this year, the Agency, but in particular in the future, is truly being capacitated and can respond to the requirements for which it has been established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16376	The word has an MP, Petar Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16377	Thank you, Chairman. Well, the very fact that, and the time period that this institution is establishing, is telling the most sincere how political forces are... to be made public and to take seriously the fight against corruption and organised crime. It is the Agency for Prevention and Co-ordination and has its role, an absolute role in the fight against corruption, but it is slow going, otherwise all slow going to BiH, small steps are being made almost everywhere. But this is one of the priority issues, I have highlighted on several occasions in this House, that the fight against corruption is a life issue, not only of state institutions, but of all citizens in the BiH area. And what's necessary for that? The political will is needed first, so the political will is needed to fight organised crime and corruption it has in BiH indefinitely. I don't know, what are the legal acts in these areas that we can say – e, here is done in accordance with the law, here is the law, etc. In addition, other institutions need to work, and this is a prejudicial judiciary. We've talked a lot about justice here, and what's now structured, as it does now, there's no way to fight crime and corruption seriously, there's no way. In the Balkans, there is one symbol of fighting organised crime and corruption, it is the late Barać Verica, I suppose you've all heard of her, she fought for several years and eventually died, so that the time of political time has matured in Serbia to seriously tackle crime, and it is very successful now. Of course he's gonna need something like that here, too. We expect, this must happen, so all those who obstruct this kind of struggle, or serious work in this field, will surely fail at some point. And it's inevitable, it's a legal one, a legal act that, simply only society matures and realizes what it takes at a given time to do. The state has an important role in this regard, when I say the state, I mean not only BiH institutions, but also entities, canton institutions, and in this respect almost all entities must, as I said, have the most important and political will. What is political will? So, to pass good laws in this respect, of course to complete legal legislation, it is not enough to pass only this Law, but it is necessary to amend both the Criminal Law and a series of other legislations that follow this area. And of course, it is necessary to stimulate the fight against organised crime and corruption, so create an atmosphere, create 51 media spaces, so media space where this struggle is stimulated. We don't have anything in BiH for now. We have mostly tycoon media, media that work in the interest of course of their own or in the interest of some party, coalitions etc. So all these things, of course, will have to change if we want a serious fight. And the very fact that we're discussing this thing, this thing requires a special debate, perhaps with two more points of the agenda, possibly one, says there's still no political will, no awareness of it, or yet the interesting structures haven't been balanced to make any more serious withdrawals in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16378	An MP named Dušanka Majkić signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16379	It's our professor to replicate in one piece. This is the Prevention Act, so the establishment of the Corruption Prevention Agency. In order to obtain visa liberalisation, BiH passed one such law, it is only one form of fight against corruption. Will this Law be able to change the state of society? Many countries have opted for a more rigorous entry into the fight against corruption, such as Croatia or Serbia, we see what USKOK is doing, and only BiH and Slovenia have the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. What does prevention mean? You can start prevention since primary school. And what objective results... This law, its passage, what are we going to get? [[You don't understand.]] That's the question. Since Mr Sorensen's cabinet is focused on this law and not a single letter of this House can change until it is fully implemented. What does it mean to implement? To deal with corruption. Well, that's what I'm saying right now that this law will never be implemented. And the question is, did we really have to open up the question of whether this law can make the effect that we all expect from it? So, you can see what was given to the Agency, she doesn't have any repressive methods. So, that's, I call them the Ombudsman, please don't steal. So it's him for us, and I only agree in this part where the professor said - we need to talk about it. Well, we need to talk about whether these benign laws can make any kind of change in society. Here, that's the thing we can talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16380	Discussion MP..., replica of MP Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16381	To answer to my esteemed colleague, Majkić. You know, if you don't have any political will, you can't talk about prevention, you can't talk about anything, if you don't have political will, you can't pass any laws. And I, my accent, was on political will, so, as for prevention, of course, of all institutions, because this institution will have to co-operate with a number of other institutions. So her work depends on the work of other institutions, and she herself will of course not be able to do some great things without the help of other institutions. I mean the judiciary and that distinguished lady, of course, she's done a lot of work, but she couldn't do anything in the wing, 52 political wing she was living in. Only the political changes expressed her idea, or they have now come to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16382	...three MPs. Just to let you know that after this point, we're gonna take an hour off. The word is from Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16384	And the chairman himself runs the session, and we have to appreciate that, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16385	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16386	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, very briefly. So, said Mr. Lozančić already, we can take the report to the knowledge, and the report mostly lists problems, of course it never worked. But what is essential for BiH, when we passed this Law, and I personally had and believe many colleagues, pressure from the international community, various embassies, the European Commission, need this law, it must be passed because of the visa-free regime, because of this and that. And when we did, however we did, all of them or most of those foreign states and embassies, committed to fund NGOs that allegedly fight corruption more than our official agency. So on some other occasions I was telling you, that hour up on, it doesn't matter which part of the city right now, because I know this town I'm from here, but it doesn't matter that they put it here on Mariindvor, every second changes those numbers, you can't keep a man against how it flies. Well, I don't know who's conducting with what this tech guy, the engineer, who was setting it up, how he came up with it, and we're here, an extraordinary team of our associates, so I watch when they turned me on when they didn't start talking. And that's where it's on all the time. I wonder how I pray to Bog that once the power goes out, if all the numbers will go back to zero, but that's impossible either. But to get things serious. So, there's no serious fight against corruption, whatever you want to call it, and I, for me, is a kind word of corruption, I call it against thieving and crime, if all institutions are not synchronised in that fight. So here we have the name prevention, so preventative I say now, don't answer let's please in half an hour finish the session, and it's not possible people. Listen to me, someone's asking, I'm acting preventively. Let's do what's already been found as a crime and what's proven and what all people see with their eyes is that it's a huge thief, 53 let's sanction it and try to stop it. But there's nothing a happy agency can do if that prosecutor over there says there's no crime. If the court lets those who are, which the people, it is the best expression there are no better ones so you make an academy of science and art than Parliament, the one that pitted there he pitted and he cares about, whether BiH is by some degree perception, corruption 104 in the world, as determined by those NGOs. So that torment of men caught me every other night listening and by the misfortune of this Parliament, and I have been a witness in the last three months, in three times enables them to use space to talk about corruption and gather together, people, an incredible number of ambassadors. I just came to see, God Bog I participate, no matter what, because I was chosen by the people and not by that group of NGOs who gathered there. And they say all the blackest, and I ask them directly, as I ask you colleagues, give me one piece of evidence that you have and don't carry it, I'm wearing it today to the prosecutor and I'll call this prosecutor who didn't do anything against what you found. Well, let me cut it short and finish it. So, this agency, like many, has no conditions of personnel, material, spatial, but it will not solve anything if we give it Parliament now and we all move out, if there is no support, and what Professor Kunić was saying and everyone said, if there is no political will to deal with the thief, what kind of agency and what kind of people are sitting there. So I'm saying, we can get, I don't know what kind of reports, we're not going to move, and the next call when they're other people, it's going to be the same story. But whoever put up the pit, and it best points to that happy commission of ours that was in three calls for an interrogation of donations, and I don't know what, billions of dollars arrived, and now I'm supposed to be discussing this agency that's supposed to be fighting someone who's been bailing on the crate, I don't know, beer or I don't know what it is, and he's in some position, so he's made some kind of corruption. No matter what corruption, thieves need to be put to rest, but all mechanisms should be involved. And this Parliament has to take all these out of our institutions here and order them, says, people have to have results, prosecution, court, our agency, the ministries, the police, this, this, give them support, and then we'll have results in the fight against thieving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16387	Okay. I'm asked not to take any breaks after all, but let's go when it's already so we can focus on the agenda points. The word has an MP, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16388	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you. This, then, is said to us in the people “sacred water, ” will not help you, nor will it take away. So, the Agency, as many have said, is about preventing corruption and co-ordination, another agency at the level of the BiH state that unfortunately cannot have results, because we know what the consensus here in Parliament is, those who decide everything when it comes to the BiH state. And that's why what Mr. Petar Kunić was saying, I think we need it, we're going to need more political will to advance it, and this is how we now have a letter on paper, as we know last year there were three employees, in this year there will probably be something more, but we don't need to shut it down, we need to work on our political will to solve this situation. Thank you very much. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16389	The word has an MP, Anto Domazet. He signed up in the trial extension.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16390	Well, I answered, indeed in the extension, because here I have closely followed this debate and of course we see that there are understandings that we have an Agency that should serve a strategically important orientation and society and Parliament and all BiH institutions, but that we have no results. Of course, here's the focus and we see from this report that focus was on building institutional capacity. I only came forward for one reason, which is that in the proposal for a conclusion I propose point 4, which is – The Agency focuses on the effects, on the results ahead of it, that it draws from the strategic tasks of the Council of Ministers the obligations it has in the area of prevention of corruption, that is, that part of its work and that it works on tasks. So this is about creating an effect means that some of the freeways are forming. So far you have had the activity of strengthening your own institutional capacity, so some preparation, preparation, preparation, now start playing the game and define what your tasks are. I am saying this and in line with the latest efforts of the Office of Audit which has made us one already an analysis of the impact of the Council of Ministers which shows whether the money spent for certain purposes is justified, whether it is justified to spend public money for certain purposes. So far from me wanting to train the Agency to deal with problems of childhood, growing up, but it's really a key question for us to see what the effects of the Agency we can expect and which you can report for 2013. So, before the whole discussion made it clear that the Agency is a specific kind of fight against corruption, so not the repressive one, not the one who prepares the lawsuits, and I don't know the investigative actions, but the one agency that, first of all, through education, through the consideration of the cause of corruption, the measures in the public to act against corruption, the co-operation with the non-governmental sector should act. In that sense, so I suggest under point 4. Conclusion – In its work programme and activities for 2013 the Agency focuses maximum on the effects of its activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16391	I'm closing the debate on the eighth item of the agenda. Of course, I'm obliged to ask the Director of the Agency if there's any need to say anything further, if you'll excuse me. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you. I'm closing the debate. 55 We move to the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an investigative committee of the House of Representatives to determine the legality of the conduct of the competent state authorities in the event of the detention and detention of MP Šemsudin Mehmedović, MPs of the House of Representatives, proposes: Members of the SDA Club, number: 01-50-1-15-51/13 of 25.07.2013.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16394	Mr. Chairman, by respecting what you have said, I propose on behalf of the SDA Club Mr. Amir Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16395	All right, next up, Ismet Dervoz signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16396	Mr. Chairman of the Alliance for a Better Future Club of the Alliance of BiH proposes its chairman, Mr. Dr. Mirsada Đuguma.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16397	All right, colleague Mato Franjičević.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16398	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to propose Mr. Nik Lozančić as a member of this committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16399	Here I am, on behalf of the SDP Club of MP Mirsad Mešić. SNSD club Lazar Prodanović, please. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16400	Mr. Chairman, we will give the name, so just before the vote, by asking that the Commission's name and mandate be in line with the definition of point 9 without the conclusions delivered by the SDA's Members' Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16401	Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16402	Thank you. So, he's digging up a trap, what he said to his esteemed colleague, Prodanović, on behalf of the SDS Club. So, we'll deliver the name before the vote, and we're also looking for these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16403	Okay. Any other clubs left to propose their candidate? I think this one's mixed up. Is there anyone here? There's no Purić. There's no Ljubić. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And then they can go to the polls. I don't think this is the problem that MP Prodanović was talking about, so the text contained in this conclusion is adapted to what we talked about and agreed on at the enlarged college, so we'll be in charge of professional services.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16405	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16406	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16407	... The House of Representatives brings to its session held, concludes on the establishment of an investigative commission of the House of Representatives to determine the legality and conduct of the competent state authorities in the event of the detention and detention of Šemsudin Mehmedović, MPs in the House of Representatives. Nothing else, therefore, a point, without anything else, that that definition should only be defined in this way. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16408	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16409	That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16410	We're going to install that in point one and the rest isn't even questionable. Okay, there's no
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16411	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16412	It's already in the conclusion. Thank you. I'm closing the ninth item of the agenda. We're going to the 10th item of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Commission Report on Efforts to Reach Consent on Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on Amendment Law Proposal and Supplements to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law The House College has not reached agreement on the Commission's opinion. There's no discussion here. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda, Ad. 11. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2012
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16419	Thank you, Chairman. Well, since I started this initiative, I want to tell you why I did it. I put a brief explanation there in the submission of the initiative, but definitely, given that Croatia has now entered the EU and that they now have some new rules about these border crossings and how this is happening now, I am interested, because there are many problems. Here in Kozarska Dubica, in the territory of the municipality of Kozarska Dubica there are two border crossings, one was freight and one was practically for passenger traffic. This is for passenger traffic, or in the city where people crossed, mostly means small vehicles, passenger cars where they crossed even bicycles, on foot, I know, now that border crossing is closing. So, absolutely, any communication with Croatia has been disabled, so let me say with the EU, so at that border crossing. I've heard from colleagues here in Parliament, and otherwise I've heard it a few times, it's been seen on the media, there are other similar problems, I know that there was one initiative of a group of community heads bordering in this part of the Krajina where I come from, meaning where they met and talked about common problems. I think the story, let's simplify it, everyone talks for themselves, means that every person talks about their own problem, I think it's us who can talk about this problem and who should discuss this problem far more extensively and far more qualityly, possibly take some steps. So I propose that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations prepare us one material, one information, what happens at the border crossings with Croatia where they are, to make means one cross-section, where the border crossings are in function as they were before, or to what extent they are dejected, as far as crossings and goods and how and how they cross. It wouldn't be bad to see it, so if it's recorded in these last few, let's say, days or months, to see if the brakes are at the border crossings and how and how they are now putting pressure on those border crossings that are practically left to cross Croatia. So, I think that means that the Ministry should provide us with one quality piece of information, that we should discuss here, see how and how we can help. I think that, in full capacity, the Ministry or the Council of Ministers should be placed there to see how and in what way they can make their contribution. I think their contribution to this case should be far greater and we should help BiH citizens to function more easily when it comes to these border crossings. I'm not going to tell you, so, about the damages where you can't cross the border crossing, the damages are great. You take it that from Croatia people crossed daily and bought goods of broad consumption in BiH, so that's one of the smallest, meaning the most banal problems that happen, but happens. When you take that some of the shops that were along the border crossings are already closed, all of which is the problem, and of course we are not talking about the enormous costs that BiH businessmen are exposed to when they have to drive to some border crossings where they can cross over, and they have crossed meanings for some others over whom they were far closer to entering and crossing Croatia, that people have signed contracts with EU countries where they were counting, meaning that the proximity of transport, they have not calculated that they will have to go to other border crossings where their transport costs are going to increase enormously, thus more threads are competitive or anything. I think 60 has a lot of problems and that simply the Ministry should prepare this information and we need to discuss it in more detail. Thank you. That's why I filed the initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16420	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote that could cause a misunderstanding, has MP Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16421	Thank you, Chairman. All of what the esteemed colleague Bursać pointed out as the reasons for his initiative, it stands. With that, I don't know if he knows it or not, but I got the information that the Council of Ministers is already working on this. So, as far as we're concerned, we will support this, and we need to talk here in Parliament, but Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister, Minister of Transport and Communications, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and all the other ministers have already taken on certain obligations on this matter. It was the subject at the Council of Ministers' meeting yesterday, in the previous Council of Ministers' session, of the following, so this is an initiative which, in my opinion, is not at all controversial, but which is already in a certain way in the process and which is already being implemented in this way. So we will support, if it means something, that Parliament also gives importance to this issue, but here we need to know that this is already done.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16422	Do you even after this announcement that it will support you, have a replica? Comrade Bursać, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16423	I'm not going to rephrase anything, I'm just saying that I'm not in a situation like my colleague Magazinović to find out, so you were talking about two men, two ministers, or the president of the Council of Ministers and Ministers who are from your party and probably to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16424	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16425	You did mention the Minister, the Minister of Transport, and you mentioned the President of the Council of Ministers. Where are your men from?
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16426	No microphone 61 is included
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16427	Well, it doesn't matter, you mostly have information, Mr. Šarović is from the SDS, I don't know what's going on, it doesn't matter, you experience what you want, maybe it is everything. (?) No microphone turned on However, I am pleased that you will support the initiative and I think that Parliament is exactly where it is to be discussed. That's why I got up means, and I don't have the information, believe me I didn't have any information that this was already being discussed at the Council of Ministers, and it's also expected that people are discussing it, it's a big problem, as I said in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16429	Ambassador Mato Franjičević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16430	So I have already pointed out on several occasions through parliamentary issues and initiatives some problems that may arise and problems that have already occurred by signing and adopting this Treaty between BiH and Croatia on border crossings, and in particular by the fact that in the meantime the Republic of Croatia has become a full member of the EU. I'm going to do some of these initiatives for a very short time. First, the problem of the border crossing of Kamensko. I have here one document showing that even in 2007, this border crossing, the decision on the border crossings of the Republic of Croatia, had a significantly different and more favourable treatment, is an important more favourable categorisation. This time again I propose that the Council of Ministers, the Commission for Integrated Border Management and the Mixed Commission, as referred to in Article 4 The contract between BiH and the Republic of Croatia should be established or already established, mainly within 60 days of the date of signature of the Treaty, to take seriously into consideration the need for this border crossing to obtain a more favourable categorisation that would allow international road traffic of passengers and goods subject to market standards and to determine health regularity during transport. I remind you that there is no border crossing of such a category in the area stretching 300 km between the Gorica and Izačić border crossings, while there are three border crossings in the area of 80 km south of the Gorica border crossing which have such or even larger categories, there is a border crossing of Bijač. I would also like to call on all of these, so the Council of Ministers, the Commission for Integrated Border Management and the future Mixed Commission, that the border crossing after the current Billy Brig - Vaganj be re-tegrated to the border crossing for international road traffic of passengers or in 62 categories other border crossings for international traffic of passengers and goods. Namely, this border crossing is located on the roadway from Livna towards Split via Vagnja, which significantly shortens the road to Split, as the most significant urban aglemeration on the eastern coast of the Adriatic
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16431	A colleague Franjičević, only if you please, a brief note. So this is about initiative. I believe we'll adopt her today, and then after that we'll have a point and open a serious debate, so I guess there'll be a chance that
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16432	Of course, I don't doubt there will be an opportunity, but I also have to take this opportunity to point out some things, because I remind myself once again that some of the initiatives that are vital to the population, for the people living in a particular area, I have not received any answer and there is no indication that anything concrete is being done, either in the Council of Ministers, or in this Commission for Integrated Border Management. Let me just say, I'm not going to be too long, when it comes to this initiative that this border crossing is being overtegorized and becoming a border crossing, but I was just saying in which category I suggest that it be classified. To remind you that it is, it means a significant cut in the road towards Split, which is not only interesting for the territory of Hercegbosan County, but also for the area of the central and northwest parts of BiH, because in both directions, the road ends up shortening, saves 50 km, it is not insignificant. And just for a little while again, to remind the problem that exists when it comes to the local community of the Destroy, it is a local community located in the municipality of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Dalmatian side of Dinara and whose inhabitants with the rest of BiH can communicate exclusively through the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Their problem has escalated Croatia's entry into the EU and with the effect of such a Treaty and the Treaty on Border Crossing, too, because in no way has their existence been brought into normal frameworks. They, I'd say, afterwards exist truly illegally and it's unacceptable and unacceptable. And once again I appeal to the Council of Ministers to really get there as soon as possible, but really as soon as possible, something does so that these people can live normally. Of course something would have to be done as soon as possible to contact the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, but this is our problem, primarily our problem, because these citizens are not citizens of the Republic of Croatia but are citizens of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16433	Ambassador Dragan Vrankić has his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16434	Thank you very much. I support the initiative, namely me and my colleague Bursać in one way and we discussed it together, and here we have also supported our commission. I think that today's debate, no matter what 63 is on the agenda again, must be in place, to remind those who should listen to us, but don't listen to us, listen not to listen to us and make what is more quality than it has ever seemed. I expected that this is how one serious topic will come across a broader debate and in one way that we can give all our opinions and that indeed we who come, who choose us, can convey what is right and what is on the ground. We've been listening to the fossil lately how the border is the one that connects, how the limit of opportunity, how it's all something nice now, but I don't think what happened to the border, that this is so ugly that we're not even aware, of those who don't hang out with the people and we're not meant to see what's going on on on the ground. This is now the strongest limit in the last, I don't know how many, 50 or 60 years that exist in Europe, there's no stronger. This is sometimes, I don't know, that we went to Trieste or something by being able to, and we got in fact with one message that Croatia must be in our hands to integrate into the EU and instead of having a lot of crossings, that there is a flow of people, goods and minds, they have reduced, and what I most angry about is that everyone is calling on Brussels, and Brussels is only included in two crossings. All that remains is the relationship between Croatia and BiH, and we have seen how wasteful we are, how much money we spend, and I don't see a few crossings still povertying BiH, the dipping to be of great help. I'm just going to say one thing that I've asked through the parliamentary question, of course we all know better where we come from, the road route, in BiH we have several routes which, whether, do dominate, how, I don't know, Evlija Čelebi wrote – Bosnia is scattered through the valley of Neretva, so people of communication go through it. There is a road route, so Mostar-Sarajevo-Mostar-Metkovic and on that road we have come that he is absolutely closed. The goods can't go, there were three border crossings on the Gable Field. In the Gabela Field there were 2 and when the crowd was in the Valley, people would cross open and it would communicate. Now the Doljani remain only for passengers, the goods have moved to a new crossing called Bijač, it is called the Metkovic crossing in Brussels. But we who, who made a run from a mile away, can only fly and fly off it, absolutely not connected and not at all people or goods are sent over that crossing, everything still goes to Metkovic, and there is no traffic there. I don't know who had the chance to be at the opening of the Biyach border crossing, but that was ridiculous. He asked me, I don't know any of my colleagues here, to explain to him where it's coming from on Beach, I said I couldn't explain it to you, and I live five miles away, I can't explain it to you, it's so complicated. And you remember the last time I spoke, if someone drives a fish from Neum to Dubrovnik, the sea from Neum to Stolac, then from Stoc to Capljin, then from Capljina to Ljubuska, then from Ljubusko to Bijač, then somewhere along the goat path, they go down to Opusen and come to Neum to make a pass and take a ride to Bistrina and bring down that poor fish that is more beautiful on the pan than on that trip when it was. Now we've come into the environment, that's the BIP, that's the part, but we have other things to go through and where life has to be simplified. It's a special story of the Gable Field, the border line goes down the street, on the one hand it's a father, on the other hand it's a son, it can't cross. Border traffic is only valid until 10:00 p.m. So, after 10:00 p.m., if you're going to cross the street to prepare a fine right now, I don't know in Croatia, I don't know how many are in our regulations. Now we often hear it's all soft, fine, it's going away. Well, the worst part is when you depend on someone's will, I don't want my crossing the border to depend on the mood of that officer standing there, I want to be a citizen and as 64 officials to pass legally, to respect the law, but that nobody's stopping me. There's absolutely averted flow of people and goods here, we have major obstacles that stand, now they last for hours and I don't see any reason not to remove it. If Bijač were connected by highway to Mostar, I would say so let's call it Doljani, people will board the highway, however 10km left-right, there are roads down in Croatia, moving on. But under the current circumstances, I wish someone could deny me, we can't expect the highway to Mostar in 10 years. In 10 years' time, it's going to mean that we're going to be Bihachi's appendix where you won't be able to explain to anyone how it's gonna come or how it's going to come down when it comes from Biajaca to do so, and we weren't so smart to come up with a concept of local or auxiliary roads, regional roads, that it connects that it can work the way it's supposed to be. Here I am expressing hope that the Council of Ministers and these all Committees of Border Management will find sufficient wisdom to look at this quality, of course we will make our contribution and in agreement with the Republic of Croatia change these circumstances when it comes to Doljani, when it comes to Gabriela Polja and everyone else crosses where it should be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16435	Ambassador Senad Šepić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16436	Well, here's a colleague, Vrankić, maybe in one of the most direct ways, here's what he's talking about is the importance of this initiative, and I'm not going to repeat it. I support most of what he said. I propose to the promoter, at last session of Parliament I had one parliamentary question and an initiative, it was tied to a small border crossing, given that since 01/07 status and positions and small-scale crossings have changed. Somewhere in the sense that temporary permits have been issued to citizens, so they have no problem, the population in those border areas now has no problem crossing the small-scale crossings, in many others it is not. So I suggest, here's fellow Bursać, a proposal to change the text of this initiative a little bit, and to add, apart from the border crossings, to the small-scale transitions, so we include, we have a whole picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16437	Ambassador Boško Tomić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16438	Very briefly, I support the initiative, I think it's good. But I only volunteered to say that the information we expect from the Council of Ministers to get, how long has it been waiting at these crossing points compared to the previous period, are the talks with the Republic of Croatia about opening new crossing points? Because the damages are extremely large, especially from the point of view of people who decide from, say, Slavonia and other places to go across BiH to this space, they will go 200 km longer when they hear that they are waiting 2 hours down this heat at + 40 °C. For these reasons, this 65 information of the Council of Ministers must be addressed with extreme seriousness and responsibility and prepared complete and complete information and with suggestions on what will be done not to wait, not to wait so long.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16439	The word has the head of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16440	There are no special leaders here, we have a very democratic atmosphere, so. Thank you very much, uh, I will be very brief on this issue, of course I support this initiative since there really is a need, but there is a need to urgently analyse this issue, given that in the last month there are serious problems in functioning at border crossings, and this is particularly expressed in Kozarska Dubica, as a colleague has already said, and not only in Kozarska Dubica, but also in Kostajnica and in this environment, and of course not only in that area, but also in the places that were here. Naima, I think it would be good to, in addition to this information to be prepared by the Council of Ministers, to go to one conclusion perhaps, this one to first agree to Article 2 paragraph 7. The agreement to urgently initiate procedures for the approval of temporary international passenger traffic at the Kozarska Dubica border crossing – Croatia Dubica. Since people have really problems in terms of going home and going back to work, if it works by 10:00 a man needs to cross the border, he simply can't cross the border, he has a problem and if he wants to go home then he has to go to Gradin and go around, come back, it's 100 km away, it's just not possible to function like that. And I think that here there is, I would say, the interest of the Croatian side that this issue is positively solved when it comes to this border crossing that is practically in the city itself, because that city is, I say, in some ways living as one whole. Next, that consent to Article 6. The agreement to initiate the procedure of retegorisation of the permanent border crossing for the Kozarska Dubica border crossing – Croatia Dubica to the border crossing for international passenger or road, however you will, traffic when it comes to this traffic of passengers. It would simply help this transition to get the status it needs. Finally, a number of problems arise when it comes to this freight traffic, since through kozarski Dubica, at least as the mayors of the municipality of this environment have said, and I see that they have also addressed the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of all, two, four, six municipalities from that environment that are looking to resolve this issue, because there are serious problems in terms not only of the flow of people but also of goods in the area. The initiative makes sense, but if this initiative is delayed and this issue is resolved as the Slovenac have dealt with the Hrvat there for half a year, it seems to me that this issue has been resolved, there will be enormous damage for one and the other people of the border areas, especially here I am talking about the Una Valley, not about other border crossings, and I think it is clear here that it is necessary that not only the Council of Ministers, but also this agency that deals with the issue of integrated border management. Well, in order for us to have any full information in this past month about what's been going on at the borders, we don't have it, but now who can and can anyone here from the Council of Ministers tell us that things are standing and whether or not he even paid attention to this point of the agenda in the way that these fellow Members of Parliament have pointed out here, I wouldn't say that he is. Although we have information that in some 66 ministries this issue has been debated thoroughly and that they have even certain pyredelogs. If these conclusions that I have made help in the sense of entering into this procedure urgently, I am prepared to translate these conclusions into written form as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16441	Thank you. I find that there are no more reports, I'm closing the debate on the 15th item of the agenda. After consulting with the members of the College present, I would like to inform you that the vote is in 15 minutes. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please prepare to vote. We are going to vote on the first item of the agenda – adoption of the minutes from the 50th session of the House of Representatives. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives adopted the record at today's session from the 50th session of the House of Representatives. We have the necessary and general and entity majority. We move to a vote on the 3rd item of the agenda – The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foreign Trade Chamber of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. First we vote on an emergency procedure request. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority, that we have adopted an emergency procedure request. I'm opening a debate on the bill. For the word is, there are no reported, therefore, or there is. Comrade Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16443	I have to, thank you. So, I supported the rush law because it corrects the current law, but not nearly what it should do to economic operators, especially when it comes to the organisation of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and Article 2 where it says it is a non-governmental, non-political and non-profit. So, which is not true at all, and it needs to be completely different. 67 For her, the government today makes a key decision on how much their income will be, therefore, purely governmental. Non-political depends on politics. And the nonprofit, so they must spend all the money that we have given them. So, totally everything, it's not well-placed. At least it's our fault, the culprits for that, there's kind of the employer's sector, because this needs to be explicitly the employers' association. The truth is that in BiH, the employer is both the state and the private sector, that the state is an employer and so manages, in a way with all of this, here we are, and Mr. Niko Lozančić has said several times that they are not being paid, that they are working under the law. And the state that it does probably has a cover in politics no one touches it. However, the private sector, we know very well that it is not in a good situation and it cannot, there is no new employment, there is no development, there is no private investment, and it is in some way mostly in the gray economy and in the policy racket. Now this is the message, therefore, to the employers that they must arrange, the policy of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce will not surely arrange how it suits them and in order for them to persecute. So this is a message to them that it's an explicit employers' organization, because in every society, even in our democratic society, employers, they have a government, there's a union. This organization should explicitly belong to employers and that they are offices. And as long as the policy is to regulate it for them, it certainly won't be good, we'll have a situation as we do, because we also know the country's trade deficit and the government's duties are going in which direction, as I said, the state as an employer can borrow practically unlimitedly as long as it has its resources. And the private sector cannot be debted unlimitedly, it has an exact limit. I point out once again, therefore, that this is their most substance to the employers, and that they are trying to make this better, because in this way that they're working so far, it's not satisfactory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16444	I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Foreign Trade Chamber. Vote now. I agree that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that the House of Representatives adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH. We move to a vote on the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have passed this Law in a second reading. We move to a vote on the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection and Well-being Act, Proposer: Parliament of Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović. After that, i.e. we have the first conclusion of Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, you all got it, right? There's no need to be, 68 [[Common discussion]] Is there one of the MPs that didn't get that conclusion? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16449	Here on behalf of the Mixed Club... I suggest myself, since my colleagues have been dismissed, well, and I haven't been able to contact them.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16450	Okay, so Zvonko Jurišić. Comrade Drago Kalabić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16451	On behalf of SNSD Club Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16452	So SNSD's proposal to MP Dušanka Majkić. 70 and Comrade Babalj, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16453	On behalf of the SDS, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16454	And on behalf of the SDS, a Member of the Parliament of Aleksandra Pandurević. I would now ask you to vote on a proposal for a conclusion on the formation of this Commission of Investigation, including these names that are an integral part of it. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I conclude that this proposal has received both the necessary and the general and entity majority, namely unanimous support. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are voting on the Commission's opinion in the second round. Please be prepared, as soon as we vote on the Opinion, it is known whether it is. Vote now. I agree that we have 13 against the Republika Srpska entity, that this opinion in the second round, therefore, has not been adopted and the Commission is in charge of drawing up a new opinion on the bill proposal. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Report from the Commission on the Effort to reach agreement on Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2012. We're voting on receiving information in the second round. I believe there will be no problem with receiving information. Vote now. So the information was not received, we have 12 against from one entity, from Republika Srpska entity. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's initiative from the 47th session of the House of Representatives. We're voting on the initiative in the second round. Vote now. I find that the initiative is not accepted and that we have 13 against the Republika Srpska entity. 71 We move to the 13th item of the agenda – The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Nermine Ćemalović's Parliament's initiative from the 48th session of the House of Representatives, held on 23.05.2013. It is about this law on organ transplants and donorship in BiH. Vote now. We have 13 against it, so this initiative didn't get the required majority either. kolega Sarajlić, are you following the session's work? Okay. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the conclusion of Parliament Nermine Ćemalović on the discussion of the initiative from the 48th session of the House of Representatives. Vote now. I find that this initiative has failed, too, we have 13 against it from Republika Srpska. We are moving to the 15th item of the agenda – Considering the initiative of Parliamentarian Saša Bursać from the 49th session of the House, held on 08.07.2013. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16455	The President-in-Office needs to clarify one thing before we make a statement, we have here on the parliamentary benches of conclusions, if we understand it well, and I think that this fellow Bursać made it very clear, his initiative is to prepare the material and hold a session with prepared material where the Council of Ministers will inform us about what has been done, what is going to be done, where we will open the discussion and adopt some conclusions on this. In that sense, we believe that the conclusions of fellow Bojić cannot be adopted at today's session, they are not in themselves controversial, but they prejudge as if we had already held a debate, and we are actually bringing, adopting an initiative that says – that this debate will take place. If we were to go into detail, we would ask, why is it that only this border crossing, and why not all those mentioned today in the discussion? And in this regard, we believe that when it comes to the initiative, conclusions can be proposed regarding the very text of the initiative, as did counterpart Šepić, who extends it with small-time crossings, which is not disputed. However, we believe that business decisions cannot be voted today and we suggest, if we have that freedom, colleagues Bojić will withdraw them, to invest them in the session itself when we discuss this item of the agenda, and it is not at all disputed to support them.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16456	All right, so, formally, we have two proposals from counterpart Borislav Bojić, we have a proposal for a conclusion on this point by fellow counterpart Saša Bursać and a proposal from counterpart Šepić that extends a little bit of this whole initiative, which I don't know if it's possible. 72 Does anyone want one? Comrade Bojić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16457	You're really right, I hope this conclusion will be accepted since you've already made such a statement, it's more useful to withdraw these two conclusions, but that doesn't mean that the competent institutions don't already need to act. I invite them to act, because by the time we hold the sessions, it's been a long time, that's what it was, it was the meaning of these conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16458	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16459	Bursać is the legislator of the initiative and, therefore, at that point in the agenda, he cannot accept another MP's initiative. My proposal is to accept this initiative as it is from colleagues in Bursać, and it is no problem for us to include Šepić and the others after the open debate and discuss it. Yes, it is. Here you go. _________(?) ...after the debate to do so, we can now add a small border crossing to this text of the Initiative, it is no problem at all, the promoter agrees. We have... put that on. Okay, if he accepts any trouble to install that part, then. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16461	About this means my conclusion, which I have set and this last line down – and to propose concrete measures to address any problems, since it does not stand in the initiative itself, means that the ministry means proposing concrete measures immediately. Yeah, well, it's meant to be, but it's not too much of an initiative, so I think it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2013-07-25-0.u16462	Okay. I think we can accept these suggestions and colleagues Šepić and Bursać. And now prepare to plead. Vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority, that we unanimously accepted this initiative. 73 I would like to ask you for a few more notes, the first next session of the House of Representatives, certainly therefore, should be on 29 August 2013. In case something comes from the Council of Ministers or for other reasons, we will have a session before 29 August. I also want to take this opportunity, as we will probably not meet until then, that I congratulate all Bošnjak – Muslims in the country and abroad on the upcoming Ramadan Bayram. And this concludes the 51st session of the House of Representatives. Thank you for your cooperation. Session completed at 2:58 p.m.
