ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u1	An entrepreneur from Helsinki, Captain Resp. Atte Kaleva, who has become deputy to John Vartiainen, who has been released from the constituency of Helsinki, has today presented me with her mandate on 9 September 2021 and has taken over her mandate. Mr Jari Kinnunen, M.Sc. in administrative sciences from Nokia, who has been seconded to Anna-Kaisa Ikonen, who has been released from the constituency of Pirkanmaa, has today presented me with his mandate on 9 September 2021 and has taken office. Suldaan Said Ahmed, a community worker from Helsinki, who has become deputy to Paavo Arhinmäki, who has been released from the constituency of Helsinki, has today presented me with his mandate on 9 September 2021 and has taken up his duties. I ask the representatives to take their place. I would like to welcome you to your duties as a representative.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u2	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u3	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u4	Mr President! The Finns have always believed that both Finland and the EU should ensure that human flows from Afghanistan do not flow to Europe, but that those who need protection receive it in their neighbouring areas. Since then, this position has also been reiterated as the official position of the EU and in many individual Member States. However, the Finnish Government is in pain with this. You have already increased support for the surrounding areas, but in addition to this, you want people here. You are proposing an increase in the refugee quota, you are offering an automatic four-year residence permit, you want to facilitate family reunification and, above all, you want to alleviate all the minor restrictions on immigration. In other countries, asylum policy is being tightened up, threats are being prepared, even genuine ones are being built, approved by the Commission. Finland is moving in the opposite direction. Mr Government, are you going to accept an avalanche of migrants from a safe country, the Swedish border?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u5	Secretary Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u6	Mr President! Thank you for the question. The best way to prevent people from leaving their homes is, of course, to prevent the emergence of a humanitarian crisis in areas where it is difficult at present. The crisis is in Afghanistan, the crisis is there in the neighbouring countries, and so far the Finnish State has supported, among other things, organisations that continue to operate there in the crisis area. We work with our European colleagues and organisations and have worked hard to ensure that we are better prepared than for the crisis in 2015 and 2016, so that Finland is better prepared for the fact that if people come here, we will know how the processes work better, how the asylum system is in better shape. But we have to admit that at European Union level we still have a system to develop. For a year now, this reform has been carried forward by the Commission and discussed in the Council, but the reform is not yet complete and is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u7	On this point, when I know that more ministers always have the willingness to answer the question, the question that I will be rather sparse in it, that is, in general, one question and one answer. — I would now ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Representative Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u8	Mr President! Over the years, Finland has paid up to EUR 3 billion in military, humanitarian and development aid to Afghanistan. We just picked up hundreds of Afghans with military protection, and you want more. You immediately added millions to nearby Iran to support the Afghan people. Development aid costs 1.2 billion a year, of course debt money — large sums, but nothing compared to the cost of immigration from these countries to the Finnish taxpayer, i.e. an average of half a million people and more. On an annual basis, the total cost is billions. Government, you've just been turning the budget. Even there a few million is small money, and there is no more money for the underprivileged Finns or for health care. However, to improve the world billions and billions, and it is always petty money. Could you explain to the public, Mr Government, why this is so?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u9	Minister Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u10	Mr President! On the previous question, Mr Purra, you asked, first of all, about family reunification, why the government is trying to make it easier. If I tell you the situation in Afghanistan: because of the covid, the corona, we have had a situation where interviews with family reunification in New Delhi could not have been made in Afghanistan — India has not accepted these people. We are now trying to create a system in which these interviews can be conducted in neighbouring Pakistan in Islamabad. It is probably reasonable for these people to be able to start this process. Then you asked about development cooperation and you also mentioned that Finland has now given EUR 3 million to help people in neighbouring Iran in Afghanistan through the UN Refugee Organisation. In your introductory speech, you spoke of the need to help people on the ground and in the region. That is exactly what this EUR 3 million is doing, it is these people who are being helped there who have had to leave their homes in neighbouring countries so that they can have decent conditions there.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u11	And the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u12	Mr President! In his question, Mr Purra also referred to the budget for next year and the contributions made by the government within it. This concerned, among other things, health care and the well-being of people, and I am pleased to say that the government is making a very significant contribution to the release of, for example, care and care debts that have arisen during the corona. Hundreds of millions will be allocated to this very side of social and health services in the coming years. In addition, of course, there is considerable investment in education and training, human capital. In other words, such thinking that the work we do outside Finland would be out of the work we do inside Finland is certainly not the reality that the government's budget proposal represents.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u13	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister Marin, you have just told us of your efforts. I am a little concerned that you have spent quite a few days discussing emissions reductions and increasing the quota of refugees, but that is something for which we are not primarily elected here, but to deal with Finnish and Finnish affairs. You told me that you are investing in the rule of law, which is important to you. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has given a unanimous opinion that the conditions for the functioning of the rule of law and justice are in danger and that basic funding should urgently be put in place to safeguard and strengthen them. How much do you invest in the rule of law in Finland? Please tell me how much and how much funding is going to be available for this side of the world. However, you have spent many days trying to improve the world. Tell us how you improve the rule of law in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u15	Secretary Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u16	Mr President! It is quite true, as Mr Meri points out, that the rule of law must be taken care of, and that is what the government is doing. That is why we will be investing in the fact that we have police officers, that next year the budget will be slightly higher than this year, and that is why the resources for justice will also be a little higher next year than this year. So there have also been adjustments in the budget negotiations that will bring us to a better career than we are today, but that is something we should continue to discuss here in the Chamber and here in Parliament. We will publish the entire budget proposal in a few weeks' time, and then it will also become clear how much money has now been invested in justice, but the direction is that more is being invested than in the current year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u17	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u18	Madam President! Afghanistan was the second most dangerous country for Christians in the world right after North Korea even before the Taliban took over, and now there is concern that many well-known Christians and parish leaders are in special danger after the Taliban rose. When the government plans to take asylum seekers from Afghanistan to Finland, even raising the quota, would it be good to consider accepting these persecuted Christians, pastors in danger of life and known names? We know that the former Muslim people, who have been converted to Christianity in particular, are perfectly integrated into Finland and are able to assume responsibility in society here in Finland as well as the rest of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u19	Secretary Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u20	Mr President! There are interesting differences here, perhaps certain differences between lines, whether you can come to Finland now or not. The right to asylum is, of course, a human right — it is a different lane. On the other hand, there is this quota refugee system in which we work well with the UNHCR. Under this system, Finland can decide which countries and with which targets we make these choices. For example, human rights defenders, defenders of women's rights and journalists are the groups that we will certainly go through in our discussions when we consider what this number of quota refugees will be in the coming year. So it's humane to help people who are really there in distress. Finland has the opportunity to do this. And here I would like to remind you that Finland is in fact also receiving support from the EU's common AMIF fund for the reception of these people. Most
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u21	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u22	Thank you, Mr President. According to some sources, Finland has assisted Afghanistan by almost EUR 1 billion through various development cooperation projects over the last couple of decades. In two days, the extremist Taliban came to power with relatively little resistance. In other words, the Taliban watered down 20 years of work and thus wiped the table with a billion blue-eyed Finns. The question is: Is it in Finland's interest to force the Islamic totalitarian state into the West by forceful feeding democracy from the West to a clearly unwilling nation? And the deep ranks of the people do want to know whether, in the light of what has happened, Finland intends to participate in even more pointless development projects in Islamic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u23	Minister Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u24	Mr President! On behalf of Mr Peltokangas: Finland and other countries that have gone to Afghanistan as part of this support from the new Afghan Government since 2001, of course they went there because of the fact that there was a serious Islamic terrorism nesting in Afghanistan and not just that country itself, but that country produced terrorism elsewhere. This was, I can say, a joint decision by the West, in broad terms, but also by many neighbouring countries, to try to prevent this and to prevent it. And we did this for 20 years. Now there's a new situation. You are right, democracy is not rooted there, the atmosphere of attitude is still, for example, contrary to women's rights. It is very important that this continues to be influenced. No, no, no, no, no. No, Afghanistan and not Afghans alone now, but we must of course look for ways in which we can influence this situation. There has now been such an Islamic government, the Taliban government, and, for example, the EU has put very strict conditions on what conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u25	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u26	Madam President! The European Union needs a common asylum policy. The mechanism for crossing borders and seeking asylum within the country of destination must be minimised and the selection of the most vulnerable should be made as close as possible to the countries of origin. However, in addition to the EU level, action is also needed at national level. The Coalition Party has proposed that a national border procedure be introduced in Finland in which an application for international protection can be processed and resolved, as appropriate, in the border zone or in its vicinity, without allowing a person to enter the country at all during the procedure. The introduction of a border procedure based on EU law would have at least two clear benefits: Firstly, restricting the period of application to the border zone would make it difficult to misuse asylum seekers. Secondly, the procedure would improve incentives to return to the country after a possible negative decision. Mr Ohio, are you prepared to implement this proposal for the Convention?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u27	Secretary Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u28	Mr President! During the period in which the Ministry of the Interior has had Co-operative Interior Ministers, this reform has not been brought to an end.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u29	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u30	Madam President! The original question was about immigration. Allow a few seconds' review of the situation twenty years ago. I worked as a county doctor at the time when our eastern neighbor was in a state of disintegration and chaos. At that time, Finland’s state administration was preparing for uncontrolled immigration for up to half a million people. Now I would like to ask when, during this covid crisis, we have many times come across the fact that we have had to react quickly when these contingency systems have been incomplete: what is the general planning of preparedness, the state of preparedness, with regard to possible uncontrolled entry, whatever the climate?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u31	Secretary Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u32	Mr President! As I mentioned earlier, much has been learned from the years 15 and 16, data has been gathered, analysed, new contingency plans have been put in place — trained together, because the most important thing is that the authorities are able to work together when things happen and, even more importantly, before things start to happen. This is where we need European cooperation, the communication of European players, so that we are ready for different situations. But what we do in Finland alone is not enough to prepare for it. When much has been said about the emergency law in connection with the interest rate, the Ministry of Justice has worked on the development of the preparedness law, and in this context we need to discuss whether there are tools there, for example, for our authorities to act as smoothly as possible in such situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u33	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u34	Madam President! We are all asked whether 20 years in Afghanistan were wasted, whether it was useful to have our soldiers there who were also trained, or what work has been done to train women and girls and to eat school, and in general to ensure that people have the right to their own lives. It is important that we discuss Afghanistan later here, what we learn from it and what we have done wrong. But one of the things that has been going on in this crisis is the EU. This is where the Minister of the Interior raised this immigration policy very well, but the second is also the EU's common foreign and security policy. The nation states, the EU countries, have acted alone in Afghanistan and have released people from Afghanistan, as Finland did well thanks to special forces. But what will we do in the future, Mr Foreign Minister, to ensure that the EU is able to act more quickly and respond to such crises?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u35	Minister Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u36	Thank you, Mr Ovaska, for an excellent question. I can say that this debate is now taking place in many EU countries. When EU foreign ministers met at the informal Gymnich meeting, this was one of the topics for discussion. In fact, many have found that, on the ground, EU cooperation, direct cooperation between EU countries, worked very well, both for us civil servants and for our diplomats. Yes, they helped another EU country, brought citizens from another country, as Finland did for evacs in Ireland, for example. It worked great. But then these mechanisms, such as mechanisms such as the Rapid Reaction Force, have not been created in such a situation that could be mobilised so quickly, and there is a big gap here. And perhaps the most important thing in this domestic preparation is that we know how to cooperate with civil and military authorities in such situations quite simply. For Finland, this was a good and interesting experience because our diplomats and soldiers worked so closely together to save the Finns from the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u37	And to this question, Mr Purra, the original author of the question, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u38	Mr President! In my opinion, I did not receive an answer to my question as to whether you are prepared for this, that a safe country, through Sweden, is going to have an avalanche of migrants. I understand that this provision has been made in the Ministry of the Interior and in Finland, but unfortunately we — and a significant part of the Finnish people — do not mean that we are prepared to consider who will carry the bags or where they can be colonised as quickly as possible, but we mean that Finland will not be more attractive to the target country than our reference country in Europe, we would not be more attractive to family reunification than Sweden or Denmark or other Nordic countries or we would not be more attractive to, for example, our social security level. We know that there are not only people fleeing conflicts in asylum seekers but also people seeking a better standard of living. This too is humanly accepted, but Finland cannot be a recipient country. I described in my question how much this is going to cost us.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u39	Secretary Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u40	Mr President! As I said several times, Finland is better prepared than in 15 and 16. [Base Finns Group :But how? We asked how!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u42	Next question, Mr Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u43	Mr President! Finland is not in the path of sustainable economic development, and unfortunately today does not seem to have brought about any change. The government has just agreed on a budget for next year, which, according to the information we have just received, means a new debt to Finland of nearly EUR 7 billion next year. It is debt on top of debt and, as we know, public finances in Finland are not in such a condition as to ensure sustained growth in the long term. We are now experiencing a boom, a good economic development, Finland has been included in the suction of the global economy. I would like to know and ask you, Mr Government: how is it possible that, when the economy grows more than in years and, as a result, tax revenue development is also positive, the government will also break its own spending limits by nearly one billion and take up nearly 7 billion new debts next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u44	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u45	Mr President! I share the view of the representative that the main task of the Finnish economy is now to ensure sustainable growth. If we compare this budget proposal with the proposal made last year, i.e. the current year, all of it seems to have a deficit of about 7 billion lower than in the current year. It's the right direction now. The level of debt is on the same scale as in the early 2010s, and I agree that it is too much. That is why the most important thing now is the right career to which we have moved since the extraordinary high level of debt in the corona period. And in that good career, it is not only by talking about debt, which worries all Finns, but also about employment, by taking action to ensure that companies want to hire people, that there are people who can accept work, and that new investments are made. All this is what the government is investing in in its budget, and I am happy to tell you more about this in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u46	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Mr Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u47	Mr President! It is not enough for the Minister of Finance to be concerned about these issues and to consider employment decisions to be important. As we all know, the government has constantly postponed the adoption of employment decisions from one row to the next, and it was now expected that, in line with its promises, the government would have decided on employment measures that would strengthen public finances at least to the tune of EUR 110 million. And once again, at the press conference, we learned that the government is moving these decisions to next spring. Prime Minister, can you judge whether anyone in Finland is surprised that you are delaying the necessary decisions on employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u49	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u50	Mr President! Mr Grahn-Laasonen has now misunderstood this point. After all, the government has already done all the structural employment measures that we have agreed on in the Government Programme, for example, or whose objective we have already raised. These have already been achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u55	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u56	Mr President! Yesterday we were able to read in the papers that the city centre and the greens stayed overnight to twist climate action at the Regulation House. That was probably the right decision, but is it really the case that there is no party in this government that is prepared to spend the night thinking about how to take less debt in a budget debate and not increase it? There's no party? It is not enough, Minister Saarikko, to be concerned — action is needed. And as far as action is concerned, I completely disagree with the Prime Minister: you have not done any real employment measures, and what we have seen so far from the result of the debate has not actually been produced today. Is it simply that you are unable to settle your quarrels or what is it? Why were decisions not made again?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u57	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u58	Mr President! Yes, even when we were in the same government as the Coalition Party, there was a slight disagreement. But I would like to ask the assembly whether you do not regard the decision to increase the income limits for student aid as an act of employment. I understand you've insisted on that, too. Do you not think that it is justified to improve the reduction in earnings for people over the age of 60 in such a way as to make it even more profitable to take work on a part-time basis? Or have you not heard what is the main message of Finnish companies to decision-makers: take care of the processes so that work-related immigration is successful. That is what the public sector needs, that is what the private sector needs. Among other things, this is the kind of decision we have taken, and I am extremely pleased with it. Structural measures, 450 million in effect, are all in preparation and will all be delivered to Parliament, and the rest of the decisions you need will be taken by this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u60	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u61	Mr President! We currently have a situation where there are 145,000 vacancies, 316,000 unemployed job seekers. These actions, which you listed, are important actions, good measures, but they are like a drop in the ocean on the scale you should do. You sought employment measures of 110 million, which will strengthen public finances by 110 million in ten years. It's not just zero, it's two zeros. In ten years, 10 billion should be applied for fiscal consolidation measures. You couldn't even do this. Thank you for these measures, in particular the increase in the income thresholds for study aid and a few others, but they are important measures — local agreement, reform of unemployment security, reform of social security to encourage tax reductions — where are all these?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u62	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u63	Mr President! Mr Orpo, when we look at this economic situation, where we are at the moment, and see how the Finnish economy is going and what the prospects are for progress in terms of this economic growth, employment and, for example, investment, we can say that the government's economic policy has been quite successful. We have survived the corona as one of the least affected countries. Our economy is growing very strongly. Employment is doing better than we anticipated. There's a record number of investments. The government's economic policy has also been quite successful in terms of employment. Structural measures are important. That is what we have done, and that is what we will do, but on a large scale and in a big picture, when we have been experiencing an historic crisis, the most important thing that this government has done for employment has been the management of the corona, the successful management, and all the decisions that we have taken in this regard. That is why our economy now has a bright outlook.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u64	Congressman Valtonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u65	Mr President! If the government's economic policy were so successful, why on earth is it forecast that Finland will grow the weakest in Europe over the next two years? I think this is about us now being involved in this booming season. My real question would be for the Minister of Finance, Saariko: You are proposing an exit tax in Finland. Well, I guess that's the last way to keep here the least of the experts we still have. Indeed, as we know, much more would be needed — and thank you for speeding up the processes — but the work done by the Ministry of Finance has shown that this exit tax would actually weaken Finland as an investment and have a very negative impact on Finland’s competitiveness. For these reasons, for example, our neighbouring country, Sweden, has not introduced it, and unlike Sweden, Finland has a genuine shortage of experts, and Sweden also has much more investment and experts to move to.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u66	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u67	Mr President! This increase in value tax is a question of safeguarding Finland's tax law, and in my opinion there is a similar regulation in Sweden. This action is particularly relevant to the most prosperous people in society, those whose origins are in this country or those whose livelihood is based in that country. As far as your view of growth is concerned, yes, I agree with you on that. I think the growth rate is relatively good for the years to come, but it is even more relevant to think about how it would continue in that career. It is true that if we can keep our growth at more than 2%, then it would, of course, strengthen employment on an equal footing, and that would enable us to achieve a reasonable balance between expenditure and income. That is why I ask all of us: we trust and work to strengthen growth, right? This is the government. The great potential of the green transition, climate change: I wondered about Mr Orpo's question, as if climate change were something foreign to economic growth. That is the most important engine for economic growth, the fight against it, the skills and technology that Finnish leading companies have.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u68	One minute was the time limit here. — I would point out that there are more than one group of these budgetary issues, which means that we will spend some time on this. — Next floor, Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u69	Madam President! In June 2019, employment measures were postponed until autumn 2019, then until spring 2020 and further until autumn 2020, when last spring’s mid-summer row 2021 was set as the tailboard, where a further review was agreed until autumn 2021, and now the work seems to continue until spring 2022. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u70	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u71	Mr President! I intend to do everything in my power to ensure that Finland's employment and economic growth stabilise at a level that ensures that the situation of Finland's economy, whose expenditure and income have been unbalanced for a long time, can be corrected. This corona period made the work of the government more challenging, but I am therefore particularly pleased that the Economics Department, which prepares a forecast of the development of the Finnish economy for the years to come, to which the government relies in its own work — that forecast will be published at the end of September, but I dare say — estimates that the employment rate, which is the most important indicator for people's livelihood and well-being and the Finnish economy, is now developing in a promising way in the right direction. And I will continue to ask you, ladies and gentlemen — thank you for having a common concern for employment and objectives: Do you not consider any action relating to the possibility for students to work, the possibility for pensioners to work? Don't you think it's worth it?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u72	And this is where the assembly is given the floor. — Mr Valtonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u73	Mr President! As we have said at the mouth of several colleagues, we certainly thank you for your contribution to the arrival of experts in this country, including the fact that students are able to work alongside their studies and that pensioners are better able to combine income from work with pensions and also work at senior age. This is not a question at all; it is a question of you taking another 7 billion debt next year, despite the fact that we are experiencing a boom that has not been seen in this country for practically a few decades. How is that possible? How do you explain this? And if we look at what is known here for the next 10 to 20 years — our population is ageing, the number of people of working age and working age is shrinking — we are going to have serious difficulties even ahead of us. And no one will rule out the fact that there is not a new crisis in sight. Then what happens, good government?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u74	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u75	Mr President! In my speech, I will focus on this deficit, which has emerged from the many contributions to the debate. Firstly, fortunately, that scale is now very different from the scale of this year. For this year as a whole, that figure stood at nearly 15 billion, and now the scale is less than 7 billion. That is a significant change and, of course, it also tells us that society is opening up, and we all hope that the difficult time of the corona is behind us. That deficit also shows a few other important decisions, partly a joint decision by all of us politicians, an HX fighter project for which the government is preparing and which will be reflected in the deficit for several years to come. Nevertheless, the deficit trend has now started in the right direction and I am confident that in the coming years it will be even smaller. But there is a lot of repair debt when you look at the development from the early 2010s. One change is social change, the establishment of welfare areas in the provinces, for which the government is preparing
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u76	Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u77	Madam Speaker! Prime Minister Marin, you have praised the employment situation in Finland as a record success. Yet you are taking 6.9 billion in debt in your budget — despite the fact that you have told us that the EU is now making money. In fact, there is mass unemployment in Finland. According to the new statistics of the Ministry of Employment and Employment, there are over 300,000 unemployed job seekers, which is by the way more than was the case with your government. There are a huge number of unemployed people excluded from this statistics. We also have hundreds of thousands of people who, despite their work, are covered by social assistance, such as part-time workers. At the same time, long-term unemployment has increased. If you, Prime Minister Marin, consider the government's achievement to be an increase in employment statistics, is your government also responsible for the increase in unemployment and the use of social security?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u78	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u79	Mr President! Both in the speeches of the members of the Assembly and now in this speech by Mr Tavio, we are very much forgetting the situation in which we have been living for the past 18 months. We have been in the midst of an historic crisis. In an exceptional way, we have had to close our real economies, both in Finland and in the rest of the world, because we have tried to prevent the virus from spreading. Well, now we are opening up society again, and the government has announced and today approved a strategy update on how society will be opened up and, at the same time, our economies and jobs will recover. But when we look at the threats that we had before us a moment ago and compare this current situation and prospects, we see that, in fact, employment is much, much better than we feared a moment ago. For its part, the government has taken structural measures to address the structural problems described by Mr Taviok in his speech. But in addition to that, we also take rapid action,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u80	Time. — Mr Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u81	Mr President! It's hard to find money for some things. The government had great difficulty finding money — I do not know if the money was found — that police forces need not be cut, but news reports show that the government is finding money to double the refugee quota. This 2000 refugees per year — do you know how many days of population growth it is just in Afghanistan? It is a one-day population increase, it is 2000 people, even if everything is taken from Afghanistan, it is no longer enough for the next day. That doesn't make any sense. We don't have enough money for that game. These things are against each other. We will receive 7 billion more debt in the coming year and that will not be enough. You will certainly be making supplementary budget proposals that will add to the debt. You have thrown ideas into the air about double taxation of Finnish pension funds, taxation of Finnish mutual funds, and yet you still take up that mountain debt, to a large extent also to export money abroad. When are you going to set these priorities? When are you going to set up?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u82	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u83	Mr President! That was, Mr Mäkelä, you now have quite a lot of arguments, and I will see what I can overturn in a minute. Firstly, with regard to the refugee quota, the Government's programme identified a fork between 800 and 1050 refugees, and in this process the Minister for the Interior. Ohio has here explained how the refugee quota — as if the people in the greatest need — will be implemented in cooperation with the UN on refugees. At the same time, in view of the situation in Afghanistan, the government is preparing to increase that amount further if necessary. The budget has now provided for the arrival of the 1050 refugees. As far as the police are concerned, it's a common concern. It is part of the Finnish experience of safety. That is why I am pleased that in the preparatory debate on this budget we were able to have a good interaction with the Chief Police Officer, and with the whole government we decided to work together to target additional euros to the police in relation to the basis presented by the Ministry of Finance. The budget for the police remains at the current level, and as far as the police are concerned, the government has yet to record,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u84	Congressman Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u85	Madam President! In Finland, people with high incomes are moving tax payments more and more, for example by hiding their property in insurance envelopes. Finally, if you transfer your books and possessions completely out of Finland, you can avoid taxation altogether. Unlike Western countries in general, Finland has never had an exit tax before, and so we have encouraged people to move out of Finland. It is so great that the government has now decided to correct this unpatriotic loophole in taxation. This tax therefore only taxes income that has not been taxed in the past in the event of a move out of the country. Now that the OECD and the European Union are correcting these broader tax rules, which, apart from the welfare states, are of course the poorest countries in particular, I ask the Minister for Finance of the island: in what other ways does the government intend to tackle the tax leakage and thereby reduce the sustainability gap? It's known that we're gonna lose as much as a billion dollars.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u86	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u87	Mr President! This budget proposal also included tax negotiations and, as agreed in the spring, tax measures for growth, but also tax evasion, amounted to a total of EUR 100 million, and this so-called VAT was part of it. I'm gonna bring up a couple more. Contrary to what Mr Mäkelä pointed out, there is not going to be a decision on double taxation of funds — no, there is no such decision in this proposal. In the case of tightening transmission price regulation, Finland's tax law can be fully exercised, and the second entity that I am raising is the taxation of foreign real estate investment funds' income in the future in Finland in a more extensive manner as justified by tax treaties. At the same time, however, it is good to remember that we take care of the competitiveness of Finnish companies. One of the measures I would also like to highlight from a tax point of view is the reduction of household income. It will have a positive and negative impact on the black economy, will increase entrepreneurship and will now focus particularly on services, domestic, care and care work, and also on changes in oil heating on a voluntary basis. It's got an effect, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u88	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u89	Madam President! Prime Minister Marin said here that the government's economic policy is a success. Well, considering that we are living in an upswing now and that we are debting nearly 7 billion a year, there is certainly a difference of opinion here. Here, Minister Saarikko quite rightly said that growth must continue. I think that everyone in this Chamber will see that if this indebtedness trend is ever to be reversed, growth must continue, and investment is at the heart of it. When there is a desire to increase labour productivity, new investments will be needed, and in this dispute some kind of tax incentive had to be given to RD investments, if you believe in the government programme record, if you believe that the parliamentary research group has been given the task of pursuing a 4% share of GDP in investments in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u90	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u91	Mr President! In many ways, Mrs Essayah’s speech was wise. I am thinking just as you are thinking about growth and its importance, and, yes, growth requires Finland to be a pioneer, to create new ideas, inventions, technologies, for example, in the face of climate change, digitalisation, health technology and the like. That is why I am pleased that, as part of this solution, we have decided that the incentive for cooperation in research — the same one that is already in force — will be significantly increased and will also be valid until 2027. So it has not yet been established directly, because it is only in use for the first year, but according to the information we have already received, it has been very popular. It will also benefit small businesses and, in our view, this career for the next five years will certainly prove its importance. And just as you wisely said, Mr Essayah, the importance of this parliamentary, cooperation between all parties in securing research and development is now of paramount importance in the coming autumn. It's the only guarantee that private money will move.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u92	Congressman Pitko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u93	Madam President! In connection with the budget debate, the Government also agreed on a climate package that is essential for sustainable growth. The industry has also called for climate action, and now – or you have – agreed on ways of achieving carbon neutrality by 2035. It has also been decided to use half of the sustainable growth fund for climate. These means will also be evaluated and, if necessary, increased. A credible climate policy also gives business a view and companies a view of what the investment environment is like. This, combined with the cancellation of the Finnish Academy cuts decided in the budget debate, gives a positive outlook for the future. So I ask the government: how do you see Finland as an investment environment now that we are on the real road to being the world's first carbon-neutral welfare state?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u95	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u96	Mr President! I think it is particularly important that Finland should take this serious role in combating climate change in a way that encourages us to trust that there are solutions to it. In many cases, Finland has already succeeded, Finnish municipalities, households and businesses, including agriculture.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u99	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u100	Mr President! We have to bring a little dimension to this debate on the economy and employment, which is extremely important. In June, the employment rate in Finland rose for the first time in history by over 75 per cent. The number of employed persons was higher than that recorded in Statistics Finland's measurement history. That's good. This is a career that needs to be continued, and there will now be more of it. As far as this deficit is concerned, the Socialist Group in Parliament is very pleased that the deficit will fall by seven and a half billion compared to this year's estimate for next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u103	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u104	Mr President! It is very important that you ask this question. We talk much about the economic sustainability gap but very much less about the social sustainability gap. This health debt, which we have had before the corona, but also in the aftermath of the corona, forces us to re-evaluate what is really important in society. Maintaining human capital and health is absolutely essential, because it is what helps people to cope from the point of view of their ability to function. We will now implement the treatment guarantee. It is precisely in this budget line that a further 50 million will be added to the spending limits for the year 23 so that a proposal for a management guarantee can be submitted. So the starting point is that in seven days, every Finn gets basic care and is also treated. This is essential if the provision of a treatment guarantee is to be maintained,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u105	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u106	Irade the Talman! Gratulerar på födelsedagen! Yes, other good things have happened today. Indeed, RKP’s determined work is producing results. Next year, a two-year experiment will be launched to increase the ceiling and compensation rate for domestic and nursing work, for example. At the RKP, we are very pleased with this and probably even the Coalition Party. This reduction will lower the threshold for access to services, will help small and female-dominated businesses in particular and will reduce the black economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u107	Thank you, Mr President. It is true that the RKP raised this issue of household allowance, and I think it is the right thing to do in Finland, which is an opening society, and I am very happy to support this proposal. It is now also the solution of the whole government, specifically in support of the service sector, women-dominated sectors, jobs and employment, and also a message to Finnish families and other homes: use the services. We are now supporting them with a tax solution so that the compensation rate will rise to 60%. It is a strong message for Finns: use the services. In this context, I would like to say that I confirm Minister Kiuru's message that, as part of the budget debate, we have agreed on a treatment guarantee, i.e. faster medical treatment and access to treatment at the start of the new war. But the expenditure referred to by Minister Kiuru is already within the framework — we have not opened the framework — and he certainly meant that 50 million has been transferred from the 22 budget to 23, when the treatment guarantee comes into effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u108	Time. — We will take one more question from the meeting. — Mr Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u109	Mr President! I think that this overheated economic situation is not very much thanks to Parliament or the government. After all, so much money has been pumped into the market in Europe with different-looking purchasing programmes, and that is what is behind this improvement in the economy and employment. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. Mr. Government, if, according to your estimates, tax revenue increases by 8%, then I ask: How can you deepen the deficit from what the Ministry of Finance suggested? The Ministry of Finance proposed a deficit of 6.7 billion. Now, after your meetings, you will add 200 million to it, which is a deficit of 6.9 billion. How is this possible during a tax increase of 8%?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u110	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u111	Mr President! Mr Eestilä, I am glad you asked this question. The answer is a little technical, but I try to be as understandable as possible: As far as tax revenue is concerned, yes, this accumulation is on the increase, but it still cannot be regarded as a supercollection of taxation. It is not yet at the level of the accumulation before the corona period, which created a huge hole in our economy. On that, too, I agree with you that both Finland and other countries used a number of measures to breathe the economy: business support, support for the cultural and event sectors. And thank you for the fact that, in my opinion, the assembly also strongly supported them. As far as this deficit is concerned, these changes for EUR 200 million do not mean that the government has opened its own framework, which was decided in spring. No, we stayed in the frame. The change comes from the fact that the actions of the EU’s sustainable growth programme were integrated into the budget, the decisions that had been taken with the EU’s recovery money, above all in the green transition, digitalisation and care debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u112	We'll take one more question. Congressman Turtiainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Green Fascism has become a nuisance to our society, and that is why we live as before the end. Words get fined, and... [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u116	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u117	Mr President! I think it is an excellent question to ask every politician who walks with us how we talk about each other and how we view things. I myself think that every human being has human dignity and that is what we must all hold onto. I have always reconciled my own words with this wise truth, which from one generation to the next has been very successful in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u118	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Henriksson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u119	Mr President, värderade talman! The Government's proposal concerns the reduction of retention periods for certain payment default markings and the necessary changes to the Credit Information Act, the Payment Services Act and the Criminal Records Act resulting from EU data protection legislation. Shortening the retention period for default marking is a very important government programme project. In Finland, some 392,000 people have a default mark, so the subject affects a very large number of people, and too many struggle to get back on their feet. For example, under the current law, some of the enforcement data will remain in the credit register for three years and the new entry may extend the retention period of the entry.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u120	Mr President! Dismissal marking and enforcement make a person’s life very difficult. When credit data are so-called burned, it becomes excessively difficult to obtain a basic service that is essential for many everyday lives. Problems arise, for example, with access to telephone and Internet access, insurance and rental, and of course, access to credit, credit and part-payment contracts are too often walled up. The underlying problems of financial problems and defaults vary. It may sometimes be a matter of indifference to the payment of debts and bills, but often the underlying human causes, such as unemployment, health problems or unfortunate accidents. Larger economic phenomena may also drive individuals into financial difficulties, resulting in a default marking. These include the recession of the 1990s, the recession of 2008 and now the corona epidemic affecting the employment situation and the economy of many Finns. During the interest period, the government has, of course, become a bit of a temporary relief from the situation of the debtor, but there are still problems. In this context, the reduction of retention periods for default marking will facilitate the position of debtors who are able to make defaulted payments. I think that is a fair line. Over the years, I have been doing a whole series of parliamentary activities that are practically in favour of this particular issue. I'm glad it's finally happening. Changes in the registration of bankruptcy data under the proposal are also in the right direction. It is also good to update the Credit Information Act and the Payment Services Act to better meet the requirements of the Data Protection Regulation. There is less cheering in government performances, but it is now necessary to give small praises for the promotion of an important issue. At the same time, I would like to thank Mr Strand, Mrs Myllykoski and Mr Hänn, among others. And there have been a few other representatives who have tried in every way to move these things forward so that there would be some light in the future in the lives of a person marked with a default and a person marked with a credit failure. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u121	Thank you. — Ledamot Bergqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u122	Mr President! Hundreds of thousands of Finns have a default marking. So today we are talking about a bill that affects the lives of many Finns. The big problem at the moment is that the entry will remain in the register for years, even if the debt itself has already been paid. The payment default marking affects everyday life. It may be difficult to get a rental dwelling, insurance, online banking credentials or a new telephone line, for example. In some cases, labelling also makes it difficult to get a new job — and a vicious circle has arisen. Especially if the debt has already been paid, it is unreasonable to label people for years. It is important that everyone can have a second chance in life. I would like to thank the Minister for the record of the Government Programme for shortening the retention period for default marking by means of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u123	Mr President! Indeed, there are about 400,000 Finns with a default mark. Last year, 273 000 of which 42,000 were registered as the first. There is a need for serious consideration of payment default marking. For example, the default marking makes it difficult to obtain a new loan or credit, the lease may not be signed and the telephone subscription will not be opened — that is, many of the consequences that make everyday life difficult. The government wisely proposes to shorten the retention periods for default marking. This entry would therefore be removed one month after the holders of the credit information have been informed of the payment. In addition, it is proposed that the retention period for each payment default marking should be independent. The new default marking would no longer have an impact on the retention period of the old default marking. I consider this to be a very sensible and humane step forward. President! The credit register plays an important role in society. It ensures the solvency of the undertaking or person that is a party to the contract. A person who has received a default marking may also be considered to benefit from the credit repository. The default marking may stop the debt cycle when the new loan can no longer be taken out. Old loans are no longer eligible for new loans. President! However, the default marking quickly loses its meaning once the debts have been settled and payments have been paid. A new opportunity is an important part of our welfare society. So it is fair to go towards it, and this motion is part of it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u124	And Mr Heinonen — Mr Heinonen is gone. — Ledamot Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your thanks, Mr Elomaa, and thank you for your excellent work. There is no point in repeating these arguments, tens or hundreds of times have been spoken of in this Chamber, and already during the last period more than a hundred names have been added together. There have also been opportunities and many more in this period, and I am very pleased that now, with the RKP on watch at the Ministry of Justice, this is progressing, because we have been talking about this for an extremely long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u126	Mr President! I must be pleased that this will has come from Parliament — it has come from every party, and I do not know such a representative who would have disagreed on this matter. That is why I see that parliamentarianism works, however, that Parliament is where the signal comes from, and it is the government's job to do the will of Parliament, the will of a clear majority. In this respect, the government must be commended for having done this work, and I personally feel that this is a very big and important issue. If the President will allow me to expand this slightly and I would ask the Minister for Justice: does the government have any idea of how many people are actually unemployed, who, for example, have, in their own way, been caught up in the debt and recovery cycle so badly that they are not actually able to go to work? I am told from different quarters about the figures, but when they are just estimates, I cannot say it, and I would hope that one day, if there is information about it, we will find out how much it is precisely the quick levers that are causing, especially for young people, a situation in which it is impossible for them to return to work in a genuine and decent manner, regardless of any protective element. Secondly, I ask you, Minister, when I am not so familiar with these issues: when we talk a lot about the positive credit register also in Parliament and, as far as I am concerned, that is also the will of the Parliament to achieve it, at what point is this going on in the ministry? If we look at this digitality and other things, all these labels, which are now getting shorter, should in practice go in real time, and there should always be information about the current situation of the person who is without additional debt if he is unable to deal with the former.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u127	And Congressman Pitko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u128	Mr President! It is a pleasure to join this choir and thank the Minister for this bill. In fact, failing to pay may have a truly significant impact on a person’s life. Even though the debt may have been paid, it can be difficult to get a home, for example, which is, of course, a basic prerequisite for a good life. Indeed, it is humanly right to shorten the retention period for these non-payment labels, and these economic effects, which can result from an increase in people's activity, will certainly be welcomed. On this point, I would like to ask the Minister about an issue which arose last year when there was a wide-ranging debate in society on the issue of the data breach in the responsible office. At the time I heard about the situation when such a person who had been subjected to the theft and leaking of these personal data told me that it was necessary to impose a credit ban on each bank separately and it also paid every single time, and suggested whether it would be possible for the credit register itself to be subject to a credit ban, i.e. that it would also be up to the Digi and Population Agency to maintain this current credit ban, in addition to the current credit ban system, in which case a person could indeed, free of charge of course, report this situation, and then the information would automatically go to everyone, for example banks. So I ask the Minister: has this been discussed here at the same time, and do you think it could be possible in such a situation when a person loses his personal data?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u129	Congressman Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u130	Mr President! For my part, too, I would like to thank the Minister for this excellent proposal. I'm a representative. I agree with Mr Eestilä that it is great that we have parliamentaryism working and that this is an extremely important issue, the reduction of the retention period for default marking, is now moving forward, because, as has now been heard in this debate, it affects the lives of the people who have these markings in many ways. I'm gonna jump a little ahead. We have also had a lot of discussion about the possibility and possibility of personal bankruptcy. I would have asked the Minister whether there is any preparation under way in the government or in the ministry which could also allow for personal bankruptcy for people who simply do not come out of that huge debt burden in their lifetime without a personal bankruptcy to survive? I do think that this would be important and, above all, for small entrepreneurs. In this society we should also allow people to fail and then get back on their feet with their own work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u131	Congressman Hänninen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u132	Mr President! I too would like to add my voice to these thanks in this Chamber, which have been heard. In other words, thank you to the Ministry of Justice, thank you to the government and thank you to the Members of Parliament, Mrs Elomaa and Mr Strand, Mr Eestilä and everyone else who, for several parliamentary years now, has made an excellent effort to promote this in their own efforts to reduce the retention periods for payment default marking to a human level, because we know that this will facilitate the economic situation of many families. As Mr Elomaa said in his own speech, the default marking makes it difficult, for example, to get a rental dwelling and insurance, or in some cases even to get a job. Indeed, this proposed reform is an important means of addressing these disproportionate situations in which the default marking will remain even if the debt has already been fully paid out. In other words, shortening the retention periods for default marking will have a major tangible and human impact on the daily lives and everyday lives of thousands of Finnish families, which is why this bill is more than welcome and needed. So, thank you again.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u133	Och ännu ledamot Strand och sedan Minister Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Just a brief word: Mr Eestilä mentioned this positive credit register, and I also support it. Technically, there are a number of options to implement it, but I am extremely glad that it will not wait for it, but that this proposal has now been brought in, which was easier to do, and then later we will have the positive credit register — I am sure the Minister will answer us for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u135	Mr President! I would first like to thank you all for all these contributions and for this tremendous support. It is quite clear that Parliament has also shown its will in this respect, and I am glad that our officials in the Ministry of Justice have also done very well in this matter and have also brought me a proposal which I have been able to bring here in good conscience. And that is what it is all about, that we have to give people a second chance. It has been unreasonable that default marking may have been in the register for up to three years after the payment has been made. Now this is going to change, and the winners are the Finns and the people who handle their debts. Very good, and I would also like to thank the representatives of the opposition for this support. I would also like to thank all the citizens who have been active in this area, there are also many of them. This, too, is an indication that the voice of the citizens is here all the way to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u136	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. As has just been said, a maximum of 30 minutes will be set aside for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Harakka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u137	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I wish us all a very good start in the autumn. Vehicle traffic must be safe and smooth both at home and across borders. In order to ensure the smooth flow of transport across Europe, it is important to take advantage of the potential of digitalisation. Electronic tolls are used in some European countries. The objective of the European Union is to ensure that tolls in the Member States are interoperable and follow up on the latest technological developments. At present, the lack of interoperability of toll systems imposes additional costs and burdens on both European drivers and public authorities. A new directive has now been adopted in the EU to address shortcomings in the regulation of electronic tolls. This revised directive will bring with it new, largely technical regulation. However, the Directive does not oblige Member States to introduce tolls. This too will be decided at national level in the future. However, it should be noted that the importance of the Directive in some Member States may be high. Well-functioning electronic tolls can reduce the administrative costs of international road hauliers. The Government has proposed a new law on the interoperability of electronic toll systems, and this proposal would implement the aforementioned directive nationally. Although the proposal does not bring practical changes, we, as an EU Member State, must nevertheless ensure that the directive is implemented. We have had a law with the same name in Finland since 2014. Of course, this law has never been applied in practice, because there are no electronic tolls in use in Finland. The present proposal would amend this legislation as required by the Directive. Mr President! With this proposal, we are fulfilling our EU legal obligations and I trust that this will also be included in the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u138	Like this. — and Mr Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u139	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. This is certainly a well-founded proposal for a law which will certainly not arouse great political passions in committee. But in this context I would have asked about the fact that in this country we have been discussing the so-called vignette charge for heavy foreign traffic for a very long time, and the preparations were already quite advanced during the last term of the government, but they were not implemented. At least in my own country, Lapland, we find it somewhat unfair that Norwegian trucks, for example, use Lapland's roads even for internal traffic without paying any compensation. I would have asked the Minister: is there anything going on in this regard, and can we possibly get some kind of road user charge for foreign truck traffic, and then participate in this maintenance of our roads, not only as consumers of that road, but also as payers?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u140	Minister Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u141	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kärnä, for this question. This vignette issue has been one that has given a lot of thought not only to the Ministry of Transport and Communications but also to the Government as a whole, not only during this term of government, but also in the previous term, when the vignette proposal finally arrived at the Committee on Finance, but it had such significant legal problems that, for well-known reasons, it was not able to move forward. Nor does this legislative proposal at hand mean that the national vignette system is being prepared, as I am aware, in particular, of the difficulties that are happening on the 21st Street, that is, hundreds of derailments every year — it is an intolerable situation, and I hope that we will find some solutions to that. The national implementation of this directive and the preparation of the national vignette system would therefore be completely independent of each other, and it must of course be remembered that if this kind of vignette goes, then it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. Of course, the provisions of this proposal can and should be taken into account in such preparation and implementation. After all, last summer these years of negotiations on the reform of the vignette directive were concluded. After all, it sought to abolish these vignettes, or time-based tolls, but this led to a great deal of opposition in the Member States. As a result of this compromise, vignettes can then be introduced for a further eight years from the entry into force of this Directive, and vignettes can then be carried out with derogations, in justified cases by Commission notification. In other words, there is no obstacle to a wise decision, but that wisdom has not been found. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u142	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. This, too, is the subject of a referral debate for a maximum of 30 minutes. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Leppä. - Can you see it? I don't see it. — Let us go directly to the speeches of the representatives. Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u143	Mr President! It is to be welcomed that efforts are being made at the level of EU legislation to monitor trade in animals, the registration and identification of animals and the transport of animals. Harmonisation of the animal health acquis is an important issue because animals move rapidly across the borders of the Member States. I would like every EU country to pay as much attention as possible to the registration and tracing of animals. There are certainly major differences in the country-specific situation at departure, and I hope that with the reforms that are now being carried out, things will take great steps forward, particularly in those countries where animal welfare regulations have been lax in the past. A regulation at EU level leaves a wide margin of national scope on this issue, so the outcome depends on the action of the Member States. I welcome the fact that the law also provides for the identification and registration of animals in order to ensure the welfare of pet animals. Registration will increase the responsibility of animals and promote the rights of animals. This is important because it sometimes feels like people are forgetting the fact that they are living beings, not objects. In addition, the return of found animals to their owners will be facilitated by registration and labelling. The clarification of the cooperation and tasks of public authorities is also a good reform. The illegal movement of animals across borders within the European Union is unfortunately widespread, and we can talk about a really large-scale problem. The illicit trafficking and smuggling of animals is one of the main sources of income for organised crime. In this way, the EU Animal Health Code and national laws are brutally wiped out. In part, another serious problem with illegal animal transport is the cross-border spread of diseases. The spread of animal diseases can be very destructive and lead to extensive slaughters, which of course have merciless financial consequences. We really don't want that in Finland. Presentation It is proposed that customs be empowered to monitor compliance with the EU internal borders on the identification and registration of animals. Customs would also ensure that animal identification and movement documents are in good condition when they move across the borders of the Member States. In particular,the phrase ‘in the context of customs control resources and other internalmarketcontrols,andthe proposal would not entail additionalcosts for Customs’ is affected by my ear. Mr President! I would ask if there was a minister there, what is this assumption? New operators, such as those transporting commercial dogs, cats or ferrets between Member States, will be included. Does this in itself not add to the already excessive workload of Customs? In order to meet the objectives of this Government's proposal and the EU animal health rules, it is necessary to allocate more resources to Customs. I was looking at Customs' spending frameworks, and the unfortunate fact is that they are probably under a cutter too. In the longer term, too, the austerity pressures have created challenges for Customs' operations, and the number of employees has been significantly reduced. At the same time, the challenges of border traffic are growing. For example, it is animal smuggling that employs more people than before, especially dogs. And, of course, the challenges of drugs and illegal food are also increasing. Mr Government, the Finnish customs must be able to meet these challenges, and that will not be possible if you keep cutting resources for border control and inspection. For citizens and us Finns, border security is an important issue, and we must invest in it. As far as Customs' activities in the field of controls on animal transport are concerned, there is a need for increased funding in order to deal with animal abuse. You can't find any more of those illegal animals in the suburbs and forest stimulants. They are difficult to trace from there, so it would be necessary to intervene immediately at the border. Mr President! Finally, the rules of the game are also unclear for so-called unidentified animals, such as pet mini-pigs. For example, if it is known that a mini pig suffers from flagrant abuses, you cannot just go home and save it because it is an unidentified animal. I know that there are a lot of representatives in the government parties who appreciate animal affairs, so I now appeal to you: put pressure on the ministers to make it more effective, especially in relation to animal affairs. Customs activities also include controls on animals by increasing resources. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u144	Thank you. — and Mr Pitko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u145	Mr President! This government's proposal for a law on the identification and registration of animals and related laws is an important step towards the compulsory registration of pet animals, for which there has been quite a common will for a long time. This registration of pets is an important remedy for both puppy production and illegal pet import. The register of dogs and cats has indeed been long awaited. It is a good thing that we finally get this legislation into Parliament and that the Minister and the Ministry will then be able to introduce them by decree. The problems for dogs and cats are slightly different, although both are serious in Finland at the moment. In the case of dogs, the problem is puppy production, where mother dogs have to produce an excessive number of times during their small life, which is threatened by diseases and also by bad life. These puppies may be sick and unfit, but there are buyers for them all the time. In Finland, this corona crisis and home affairs have even strengthened this problem. Compulsory registration should help it, while for pet cats the problem is often uncontrollable increase and the existence of such half-wild cats living in bad conditions but also the rejection of summer cats, and also for these mandatory register can bring help and contain these problems. This registration will also help find found animals faster in their own home, therefore it is important, and resources will also be saved in the fact that dogs and cats do not have to wait so long for their owners in these found animals homes. There are obstacles to the protection of domestic animals in this current legislation and other legislation. The limited resources of the police and the authorities often prevent these situations from being addressed, but fortunately, unlike the previous speech, money has actually been increased and this budget debate is also on the way, and I hope that it will also provide protection for animals. One of the problems is that, for example, it is difficult for police officers to make house calls, even if there is a suspicion of some minor animal - protection crime, because homes are protected by domestic peace and cannot therefore go there. You have to suspect a serious crime so you can go inside. But it is good that this is here now, this is one step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u146	Congressman Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u147	Mr President! I would have thanked the government and Minister Leppää for this excellent proposal. In the two previous speeches, the problems which this proposal now addresses have been well highlighted. Puppie factory is unfortunately a major problem in this country, unfortunately a major problem, and then eventually produces usually sick dog specimens. I hope that this proposal will get to grips with this, as well, of course, with the illegal importation of animals. I am also concerned that there may be any kind of animal disease with these animals when they are imported into Finland without identification. And then there is even the possibility of such a zoonosis that a virus that came with a dog imported from abroad or a cat could then spread to humans. These points too must be taken extremely seriously. Like Mr Pitko there, I myself would like to make a slight correction to Mr Elomaa's view that the government had been cutting resources for Customs and the police. On the contrary, there is a higher level of funding than in years. And it is also essential that the resources of the Border Guard are secured at all borders, and also that when an animal is detected when a vehicle is stopped, it can then be identified through such a system. This is the concern I have never had about mini-pigs before, but when Mrs Elomaa raised this issue, at least personally I am prepared to contribute to the welfare of the mini-pigs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u148	That's great. — Representative Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u152	And Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u153	Mr President! This government proposal for a law on the identification and registration of animals is welcome. As has been pointed out here by colleagues, puppy production is at times a fairly serious problem, as is illegal import, which in this case is now linked to the dog and cat issue. Other animals have also emerged in this debate, and they are sometimes caught in our Customs, and it is hoped that those resources will also be in good condition there. But in this debate, too, I would like to thank Mrs Ritva Elomaa. He is determined to work on these animal welfare issues, to raise important issues here in the debate. Even now, there are a couple of legislative initiatives waiting for Parliament to come to the House, and they are things that arise from everyday life that are often being carried forward by Mr Elomaa. Even these initiatives, which now concern animal welfare and also the fact that when people have mistreated animals, it would be possible to effectively act and ensure that these animals are no longer allowed to do so, are those which have been well carried forward by the representative colleague Elomaa. In other words, I would like to thank him in particular in this House's Minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u154	Yes, thank you. — Mr Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Heinonen's fine words, commending Mr Elomaa, are easy to agree with. I'll sign all of these, too. The proposed law uses room for manoeuvre to allow the registration of establishments and the labelling of animals to continue in a much similar way to the current ones and to allow national measures on animal traceability other than those laid down in animal health rules to the extent necessary. The use of the margin and the application of the derogations allowed to Member States would be provided for in order to prevent a new administrative burden for operators. This is a good line and this should be strengthened. Mr President! Moreover, I welcome the fact that national margins are reflected, among other things, in the existing system of supervisory authorities and in the division of tasks between authorities. There is therefore no significant change to this. However, it is proposed that Customs, together with the Regional State Administrative Agency, could carry out a new task of monitoring the identification of animals at the internal borders of the EU in the context of other controls. I, too, wonder whether Customs' resources, just like Mr Elomaa, are sufficient, but thank you to the representatives of the government parties, Mr Kärnä and Mr Pitko, when they corrected that the money will certainly be enough. In addition, in the context of controls on animal transport, the police could check that the animal is accompanied by an identification document when required by legislation. This can be seen as a positive factor in the current situation. Mr President! To this end, I would like to say that the good thing about the proposal is that it has taken particular account of the specific features of reindeer husbandry, which I am very pleased about myself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u156	Like this. — And now, thank you, Mrs Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u157	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the government and Minister Leppää for the fact that this proposal on the registration and identification of animals is finally coming here and will probably be adopted. That is a great thing, and it is on the way to animal welfare — thanks for that. Puppy factory is very glaring, it happens here in Finland too, but above all there are puppies from abroad up to a few weeks old, and they can be sick and so away. I said we need to increase Customs' resources, and that's all right if we're going to get the police. Customs will at least have the financial situation so that it is even the same, but now our security and our customs resources also need additional resources, and I would like to see more resources and more resources for Customs and the police. Mr Kärnä said, on the contrary, that at least there is no surgery. It's good not to operate, but more would be needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u161	A 19th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Leppä may not be here, but Mr Pirttilahti is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u162	Mr President! This is the basis for the government's proposal for a European Maritime, Fisheries and Farming Fund. We currently have similar legislation in Finland under the European Commission's regulation, and the purpose of this proposal is to propose a new law on the European Maritime, Fisheries and Farming Fund, which would replace this domestic legislation. This is a very technical matter, but on the other hand there will be changes here, especially to the authorities and the maintenance of registrations, including the information systems of the legislation. Let us hope that this legislation will harmonise common European legislation so that national legislation is combined with this. — In short, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u163	Like this. — and Mr Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u164	Mr President! The representative Pirttila presented the content of the bill with merit. I believe that this technological change is essential. This, too, will certainly not be a source of great political passion in the committee debate. In this context, however, it is worth recalling the importance of fishing for Finland and how much we would have the potential to increase it in inland fishing as well as in marine fishing and also in fish farming. It is somewhat perverse and amusing for us to have a huge amount of fish, Norwegian salmon, even from Asia, imported into the land of thousands of lakes from abroad, when we have all the waters full of fish that could be caught there, and also the enormous potential for more efficient farming of fish. I hope that attention will also be paid to this issue at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, although we already have a programme to promote domestic fish. We must also hope that the citizens will be responsible here: instead of Norwegian salmon, it is always worth choosing Finnish rainbow trout on a plate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u166	The 20th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — First signatory of the bill, Mr Honkasalo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u167	Mr President! Thousands of small schoolchildren spend long nights and sometimes even nights alone at home, especially children whose parents or parents work hard on shifts, and there is no money or opportunity to hire child care. These parents often have to work part-time reluctantly and leave the child alone for the evening or night at home, even if the anxiety is deep and the will is to do otherwise. At the same time, this is a matter of silence and shame, for fear of bad parenting is great. The impossible situation for many single parents means that work cannot be taken up and livelihoods are becoming increasingly tight. This is an issue that is still far too little spoken of, even though it affects the lives of thousands of families in Finland. This is an issue on which we must find legislative solutions. Mr President! Today we are dealing here with a bill by my colleague and colleague Katja Hänninen to organise shift care for young schoolchildren. The aim of the initiative is to provide shift care for families where the guardians or sole guardians work shift. The objectives of the initiative are to ensure the well-being of children and to promote reconciliation between work and family life. Much is said about the difficulty of reconciling family and working life, and so it is good, but the diversity of families is still missing from this debate, and solutions are mainly offered that are suitable for middle-class nuclear families of two parents who work from eight to five. This despite the fact that the number of single parents and one-parent families is increasing and that they already account for more than 20 per cent of all families with children. This despite the fact that irregular working hours and shift work are increasing in our society as the emphasis is increasing in the 24/7 service society. At the same time, families feel that municipal childcare services do not everywhere follow the development of working life. Special concern is given to small schoolchildren who are deprived of a place of care, even though parents are working more and more evening and night work and weekend shifts. Mr President! The situation is particularly challenging for single parents, who are in principle already disadvantaged in socio-economic terms than other families. Poverty among single parents has increased since the 1990s, and unemployment among single parents is almost double that of other families. Even from the point of view of employment, it would be essential to support single parents in reconciling work and family life, but this is also a big gender issue, since the majority of single parents are women. Mr President! The resolution of shift care must also be considered from the perspective of the rights of the child. All children must have equal opportunities for well-being, care, safety and good living regardless of family background and circumstances. The situation is now mixed in many respects. Children under school age have the possibility of evening, weekend and 24-hour early education if parents or parents study or work outside the normal opening hours of day-care centres. Of course, the big issue in early childhood education is the practical arrangements for shift care, which vary greatly from one municipality to another. The big problem, however, is that small schoolchildren do not have the legal right to a place of care if their parents work in shifts. However, the law does not currently rule out the possibility of small schoolchildren also taking part in the shift care of early childhood education, but since this is not a matter of law, it is the responsibility of the municipalities to organise the matter. Thus, at the moment, children are also in an unequal position, depending on their place of residence, because in some municipalities shift care is also provided to young schoolchildren and in some municipalities it is not. Mr President! Several attempts have been made to introduce shift care for young schoolchildren into the law in recent years. The Education Committee made a unanimous statement on this issue in 2019. During the current parliamentary term, the Government is required to examine the need for and the implementation of shift care for early childhood and young schoolchildren. The committee also calls for the necessary measures to be taken on the basis of the results to amend the legislation so that the services of shift care can be ensured. The same thing has been said very strongly by the Ombudsman for Children. It is therefore gratifying that the importance of this matter is listed across party boundaries almost unanimously. Why, then, is it still the case that there is no law on the right of shift care for young schoolchildren and that the right is not being exercised in practice? Mr President! When the Education Committee dealt with the organisation of shift care for young schoolchildren, I asked experts whether there are currently age limits definitions in Finnish legislation as to the age of which a child can be left alone at home. The answer was that there is no such definition in Finnish legislation unambiguously. At the same time, for example, the Employment Contracts Act guarantees all workers the possibility of temporary child care leave in the event of sudden illness of a child under the age of ten, so that the child does not have to stay home alone. At the same time, why is it that some of the working parents, even at the age of six, have to leave their children in school alone for the night if they do not have safety nets of their own? Surely we all feel that long lonely nights or even nights are not in the best interests of the child. Mr President! I know how hard it is to have a single parent's little children's ark many times. Each course must be carefully planned, and every absence from home adds to a bad conscience. This situation leads to self-sustaining and well-being being put to the test, when there is hardly any leisure time or time of your own. As a citizen of one parent's family, I know that reconciling family and working life and a low income cause strain and stress and are central concerns in single-parent families, you could say worry number one. We have the key to the solution. The legal organisation of shift care is about equality, fairness, promotion of employment and the rights of the child. A small child also needs company, care and support at night and at night. A child should not suffer because his or her parents work. We propose in the bill that small schoolchildren also be offered the opportunity to take shift care around the clock. It is not just about equality, fairness and promoting employment. It's about the rights of the child. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u168	Thank you. — Now the second initiator of the initiative, Mr Hänninen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u169	Mr President! I myself worked as a part-time salesman at the same time as I had quite small children before my job as a congressman. At that time, both adults in the family worked shifts — one at the SSAB factory on three shifts and the other at the store itself on very irregular shifts — so I can say that I also have a personal experience of what we are talking about today. Just as Mr Veronika and I say in my initiative, there are often only solutions for reconciling family and work, such as telework or part-time work, which are best suited for those who are in a good position on the labour market. However, in many low-paid jobs part-time work is reluctant because it does not work, and the tasks are such that you cannot do telework. So it may well be said that the discussion about reconciling family and work is often very middle class. We must now look more and more at the families where children’s guardians — or sole guardians — work early in the morning, at night, at night or at weekends. Compared to regular day - work workers, these families face more difficulties with the running of small children’s lives. Work has always been done in certain areas, and it will always be done. We therefore need to develop solutions that allow shift workers to combine family and work better. Although it is above all a question of increasing the welfare of families, it is also a question of employment. Indeed, many parents of young children cannot even take shift work because of the family situation, because the ark would become quite impossible. Mr President! As a former trader, I have often wondered about the trade sector and how the liberalisation of shop opening hours affected the everyday lives of employees. For example, have parents of young children been able to adjust the various shifts so that a small schoolboy does not have to spend the night alone at home? In particular, I am thinking of single parents who are not close to their own parents or other loved ones who could help. For them, the situation is particularly difficult. Trade Union PAM has clarified these issues and their survey in 2016 revealed that the majority of respondents, i.e. 72 per cent, took up more time for family life as a result of the change in shop opening hours. A lot of people are thinking about quitting for family reasons. According to the survey, it was particularly difficult for single parents to arrange child care. More than 80 percent of the respondents were in favour of extending shift care to small school children. When Parliament dealt with the liberalisation of shop opening hours in 2015, I insisted that the child and gender effects of the reform be investigated. At the time, the government looked at the matter mainly from the consumer's point of view, not from the employees' point of view. Now we need a repair shop. However, it is good to remember that irregular shift work is not necessarily a problem in itself. A lot of people like to make them. It is therefore important to improve the well-being of workers and to reconcile family life with proactive working hours. In addition, social services must also support the daily lives of irregular shift workers. It is the initiative of myself and Mr Honkasalo, who are seeking to improve services. For my part, I would like to thank the representatives who have signed this important legislative initiative of ours. In this Chamber, too, at least two of them are present at the moment — Mrs Elomaa and Mr Hopsu — but also thanks to all the other signatories to the initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u170	Like this. — and Mr Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u171	Mr President! The initiative of representatives Katja Hänninen and Veronika Honkasalo proposes ways of enabling child shift care or home care when the child’s guardians or sole guardians work shift. This amendment of the law would be very good. That is to be welcomed and, just as Mr Hänninen said, I was forced to sign this, because the initiative is so good and it must then be supported. But there's one thing we need to remember. However, this increase in municipal expenditure would add to such statutory tasks and it would therefore be noteworthy that the government would then reimburse the municipalities for these costs. It is vital that Honkasalo and Hänninen in particular have their own experience. It adds value to the importance of this initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u172	And Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u173	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Honkasalo and Mr Hännis, for raising this important issue. In many families shift care is a necessity to enable parents or parents to work. The initiative proposes to amend the Act on early childhood education and the Act on Social Welfare to allow shift care for first- and second-class pupils due to the need for a parent or other guardian to work or study. In particular, I think that it is proposed that this child care-related home service should also be made more accessible, and that there should be enough shift work to do so. In terms of equality and children's rights and well-being, as well as economic and employment policy, shift care for young schoolchildren is important. In order to achieve greater equality in access to the labour market and, in particular, to support the well-being of children, society must provide assistance in reconciling family and work with the families of shift-working parents. Especially for single parents, but also for older families, where children have to spend the night or night at home alone because of work, restricts the possibility for parents and parents to make a living and work, and also endangers the child’s security very easily. It is a matter of strong social justice, because low-income people do a lot of shift work and also less predictable part-time shift work, and they also have a weaker chance of paying for care at home. There are also differences in family security networks, and it is not possible for everyone to ask for help from people close to them. When developing shift care services, it is important to take the best interests of children into account. According to experts, shift care can have negative effects on the well-being and growth of the child, but can also have beneficial effects. On the loading side are irregular schedules, lack of stability and changing routines, care facilities or nurses. In the interests of the child, it is precisely in order to minimise these burdening factors that shift care should be sought. At present, shift care is possible for children in early childhood education if the parents work shift. In the case of small schoolchildren, only afternoon activities are possible. This proposal is very much to be welcomed. In particular, I would like to raise this particular amendment to section 19 of the Social Welfare Act, according to which in the future the need for home services could also be based on, for example, parental or parental care, during which it is not possible for the family to obtain other help. But there is also support for this amendment to the early childhood education law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u174	Thank you. — Mr Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u175	Mr President! I would also like to thank Mr Honkasalo and Mr Hänninen for this excellent initiative. I'm sorry we've been through this corona time. Certainly, if such an initiative had come to be signed, I would have given my own signature to this, but when we play in that electronic system, these things are unfortunately going to pass. I think it is extremely important that we support the survival of families with children and single parents in everyday life, and this is an excellent response to this need. As has been said here in other speeches, this is an exceptionally life-flavouring initiative, because both initiators have a personal experience of these challenges that can be faced in everyday life. I hope that this will be dealt with properly in committee, and although the number of signatures has unfortunately been reduced, it is hoped that this will not be an obstacle.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u176	Mr President! I share the thanks of the representatives of Honkasalo and Hänninen for this legislative initiative and I hope that the committee will have time to deal with this and look at it from the various points of view. Of course, the main focus here is on children’s rights and care and safety, which children should receive while working for the adults involved in shift work. But there are many other good starting points here, such as this industrial policy approach. Looking at these small industrial agglomerations in rural areas, where we are currently finding it quite difficult to get a workforce, this is one part that would contribute to this problem of matching, so that we can move to the localities where child care is secured along with shift work. I hope that service is also close so that we do not have to leave for children to move tens of kilometres from place to place when we go on duty. This is, in fact, a quite significant problem at the moment as to how to move from one place to another to work. In other words, there are many other things — of course, taking into account the ability of the workers, or parents, to cope with their daily lives. So this is everyday, as the previous representative, Mr Kärnä, said. Let's hope this is a good deal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u177	Like this. — Mr Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u178	Mr President! I agree with these thanks: the authors of the initiative, Mr Honkasalo and Mr Hänninen, have raised a good point. Of course, with this theme and these speeches, it stops to think about how child-friendly society we are. There's still a lot of work to be done and patched up. It is quite true that the first-second grader is still very small — too small to spend time alone in his home, especially when it comes to nighttime and evening time, and the older child is not happy to leave home alone. Today we are living more and more apart and there are no relatives and close friends around it, just as those speeches made very clear, and that is why it is often very difficult to provide child care when you simply cannot get a nurse at home. Then there is the issue of inequality in the place of residence, which is of course a big problem that depends quite a bit on where you live, whether you get a child in turn or not. I think it is important that this improvement in access to home services is also highlighted here. It applies not only to families with shift jobs but also to many other families. After all, we are about to receive a government proposal to improve the quality of home care for the elderly, the elderly, and when I read the report on the proposal, it states that, in the same context, the availability of home services for families with children will also be improved by raising this home service to its own section. I think it is important that, now that we have a proposal from Parliament, it is also worth looking at it from the point of view raised by this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u179	Like this. — Mr Honkasalo, the author of the initiative, and then the promised half an hour begins to be full.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u180	Mr President! Thank you for those warm speeches. It must be more general that this is a social issue which perhaps is not known so much in large public opinion, because there is also so much stigma in it that it may not be talked about, and such a valuation of parenthood. And it is just as Mrs Elomaa said that, of course, if such a law were to be implemented, it should also be fully replaced by municipalities. But we also think with Mr Hänninen that this is, above all, one of the things we need to do in terms of employment: by promoting the employment of single parents, it is in the interests of society as a whole. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u181	The 21st item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. — First signatory of the initiative, Mr Kärnä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u182	Mr President! This bill is a bill for the amendment of Article 18 of the Environmental Protection Act, and here it is proposed that this law be amended. Article 18(3) of the Act is amended to prohibit the pouring of snow into the sea. I was inspired by this initiative from the City of Helsinki. I have followed this annual debate on the treatment of snow, and I find it quite confusing that Helsinki is not prepared to change this issue on its own, but rather wants to profile — not as the Finnish Nature Capital, as it would have the possibility — as the Finnish Waste Capital. Mr President! When snow falls into the sea, the environment is seriously affected. With the plowed snow, garbage, plastic, asphalt particles, car tires, etc. end up in the sea. According to a study by the Finnish Environment Agency, the placing of snow in the sea or in watercourses causes litter and acts as a serious route for microplastics in different water bodies and marine areas. In Helsinki, several thousand kilos of garbage and an estimated 50 million microplastic particles will end up in the Baltic Sea during the winter with the snow. The snow mass from the streets also contains, among other things, trash thrown into the street, animal waste and cigarette butts classified as environmental poisons. Waste, plastics and other harmful ingredients that end up in the sea with snow are transported to a wide area by sea streams and may never disappear from the sea. I find it completely incomprehensible that: Helsinki will continue to do this, even though one city official says that it will end up in the sea “all-wheeled diarrhoeas”. Helsinki is the only city in Finland where snow is poured into the sea. Education cities Espoo, Turku and Oulu have banned it in environmental protection regulations issued under the Environmental Protection Act. However, a categorical ban on pouring snow into the sea also applies to Helsinki, as Article 18(3) of the Environmental Protection Act still allows snow to be dumped in exceptional conditions. It is also good to note that pouring snow into the sea is prohibited in all other Nordic countries. Mr President! According to experts, snow should be poured into the land or disposed of by other means, such as melting — there are many technical solutions to this. The city justifies pouring snow into the sea by, among other things, causing CO2 emissions from transporting snow elsewhere. I do not consider this argument to be sustainable. We cannot contrast the cleanness of the Baltic Sea with CO2 emissions. Thus, Finnish legislation does not currently prohibit the pouring of snow into the sea. Article 18(2) of the Environmental Protection Act prohibits the dumping of waste into the sea in Finnish territorial waters or economic zones, but Article 3 allows the pouring of snow into the sea as an exception. This bill would remove that exception. I would like to thank all those who have signed the initiative and I hope that the Committee on the Environment will take this initiative seriously. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u183	Like this. — and Mr Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u184	Mr President! Yesterday, in this Chamber, we talked about the water supply in Finland and also about how water is extremely important to all of us. Just as Mr Kärnä said and pointed out, it is very amazing that Helsinki, which markets itself as a green city, has continued to pour snow into the sea. As stated in this initiative, which, of course, I gladly signed as soon as I heard of it, the snow will lead to thousands of kilos of garbage — thousands of kilos of garbage — and up to 50 million microplastic particles in the Baltic Sea during the winter. And it is also important to note that all other cities have either stopped pouring this snow into the sea or refrained from it in the first place, but Helsinki continues to do so. Now that I have spent some time here in Helsinki in the last few winters, I have noticed that when snow comes here, it will of course be a job for city dwellers to move the snow away, but it is also a great pleasure: children go with the sleds, you see skis, and even in those parks you ski. Do you think that when you have to move the snow, you could turn it into some sort of huge sled and hilly place? Perhaps a little while ago it could be snowed on, making it as good and flat as possible. I very much welcome this initiative and hope that it will be dealt with in depth in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u185	Like this. — and Mr Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u186	Mr President! What an excellent initiative from Mr Kärnä. This is already, as it were, the past of the world, which Helsinki is currently living in. It reminds me of these river dump photos coming out of Asia when you put garbage in the river with a small truck, that this is exactly the same. It's just a snow frosting, like whipped cream, and then we'll take the garbage to the sea. We should get rid of this. Indeed, the only country in the Nordic countries in Finland is not prohibited by law, and I think Helsinki is the only city in Finland that does this. In Tampere, for example, snow is taken into the Lielahti area as a big keg, from which it slowly melts, and then the melting waters are followed where they go. Perhaps I would have broadened this initiative by extending it to include rivers and lakes, that is to say, total protection for our waters, and I would have extended it to that. Indeed, it is a serious environmental crime, which is what Helsinki is doing at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u187	Yes. — Representative Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u188	Mr President! I saw that Mr Kärnä has made a bill, and I stayed here in the Chamber to hear what kind of initiative he has to make. It was such a convincing proposal and the bill is so important that I'm sorry that it's passed by my mouth and I haven't noticed it, but if it ever comes to this Chamber to be voted on, I definitely support it. That is a very good initiative. I wonder why they're deliberately loading garbage in that ocean. That crap we're trying to take out of that ocean and the water, it's gonna be there all winter. That is an incomprehensible situation, and I am pleased that Turku has not gone along with this nonsense. I would like to thank Mr Kärnä for this bill and I hope that it will receive a good reception in committee and come to this Chamber, even if it is to be voted on, that would be very important. Let's talk about the environment and environmental protection, and what's more important? When you think of snow and snow driving, you can’t drive snow into the sea now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u189	Like this. — and Mr Hänninen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u190	Thank you, Mr President. I must now say to Mr Kärnä that this time of interest must have contributed to the fact that I too have passed this excellent bill, but I warmly support it. In fact, we had to google a little bit here, that this snow going into the sea and all the rest of it here in Helsinki. In Yle’s case, it is stated that the real shame — and I am sure it is not just this — is also that the city’s emptiness is washed up all year round uncleaned into the sea. That there is more to the problem than just this snow problem, but it is certainly a very important issue, and I hope that there will then be an improvement. Indeed, there is a tin, a curtain boom, set here, and it will then try to prevent this debris from spreading. But will it be an impressive way: Will the garbage and microplastics remain in it? Surely it is not with such a cloaking boom that poisons are erected to prevent them from entering sea water, so that they are then precipitated into it. Hopefully, the Marine Action Group will provide solutions that can be used to clean water more efficiently in the future, but above all to prevent any environmental toxins from being deliberately calculated as a result of human activity with snow or lullabys. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u191	Like this. — And the first signatory of the initiative, Mr Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-09-ps-94.u192	Mr President! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for these warm speeches and for the good clarifications which I hope will then be taken into account in any discussion of the Committee on the Environment. I personally believe that because of the capital of our country Helsinki does not voluntarily want to act on this issue, and as a parliament we have a duty to put Helsinki in check and stop this conscious pollution of the Baltic Sea. Let us hope that this initiative will indeed get the attention it deserves there in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
