ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — — — — Secretary Henrikson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u2	Mr President, värderade talman! There is a temporary law on action to be taken against coronavirus pandemic in the enforcement of sentences and the execution of detention. This legislation has been prepared in cooperation with the Criminal Sanctions Agency, the Prisoner Health Service and the National Institute for Health and Welfare. The law is intended to enter into force as far as possible and would be in force until the end of October.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u3	Madam President! Dear Minister of Justice, ladies and gentlemen and others following the plenary session! Minister Henriksson presented this government's proposal to the 44-year 2021 Parliaments, which is therefore a provisional law on action in the execution of the sentence and the execution of detention. The aim of the proposed law, as the Minister explained, is to ensure a sufficiently precise legal basis for the execution of prison sentences and community sanctions and for the execution of detention, including during the corona virus epidemic. It is therefore a question of taking measures in prisons, restricting prison meetings and leave permits, suspending other measures and also restricting the rights of access to children. This has also been accompanied by an improvement in the video connection. These are good and worthy proposals. In prisons, efforts are being made to prevent the spread of covid-19 by ensuring good hygiene and adequate safety distances. The staff has been recommended to use facial masks for work requiring close contact, and in addition, efforts have now been made to avoid several prisoners living in the same cell. Despite this, the Criminal Sanctions Agency, Rise, reported that several coronavirus infections have been detected in prisons in Helsinki, for example, and that is why the prison has actually been shut down. Prisoners have already had to be transferred to other institutions, and during the lock-down, new prisoners could not be admitted to the Helsinki prison. In fact, all 240 prisoners in Helsinki Prison have been quarantined, which lasts until 17.4. For example, we in Riihimäki prison in Häme, but also in Turku and Jokela prisons have already seen covid-19 cases. Furthermore, prison guards have already been quarantined at this stage, and the operation of prisons, ladies and gentlemen, is seriously threatened. Prisons are already operating at a so-called legal minimum. Consequently, work activities and rehabilitation of prisoners have in fact been impossible to organise, and only outings have so far been sought. It should also be noted that there are many debilitated prisoners in prisons for whom corona virus infection would be fatal, and hospital security should be possible even if they have to be transferred to intensive care. It must be possible to hold on to the ability of prison care, even if the situation is rapidly changing from bad to worse. With the legislative package we are discussing today on the issue of corona safety in prisons, I would like to hear from the Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson, who is responsible for prisons, an assessment of the current situation in our prisons and how we can guarantee that if prisoners are put into intensive care, security can be arranged, for example, in hospital conditions. How sharp is the situation in our prisons at the moment? It should therefore be considered whether it would actually be appropriate to consider that these prison guards in prisons should be a group that should also be taken into account in this vaccination order. They operate in a completely exceptional working environment, and this situation may very quickly become acute, and then the whole of our prison care system will be threatened. I would also like to hear the Minister of Justice's assessment of whether we could consider a slightly faster schedule for vaccination in prison care. Mr President! These measures, which have been mentioned in this proposal, I am happy to support them, but perhaps they are missing, which I raised at the end of my speech, namely faster vaccination of prison guards and then arrangements and solutions for situations when prisoners, particularly dangerous prisoners, are in intensive care.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u4	Congressman Keto-Hovinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u5	Madam President! Good Minister! As a result of exceptional circumstances caused by the corona virus pandemic, exceptional arrangements have been needed in every sector of society. In the implementation of prison sentences and community sanctions, this has also called for more than one year of temporary measures to better respond to the situation. Among other things, the introduction of sanctions has been postponed. The pandemic has affected the operation of prisons, although the situation in Finland has been relatively good internationally compared to last few weeks when news began to come from that prison in Helsinki. However, the situation has been problematic because we do not have a sufficient legal basis, and the aim of the legislation proposed is to ensure, as the Minister has told us, that there is a sufficiently precise legal basis for the execution of prison sentences and community sanctions and for the execution of detention, in relation to the surrounding reality — there is indeed a need for this. The law now being proposed would be temporary and would only apply to a corona pandemic, but I consider it absolutely essential that the preparation of the law be continued on the basis of the original proposal so that we will also have legislation in place in the future for the safety and health of prison workers in the event of new pandemics. Madam President! Let us not forget, however, that the aim is at the same time to safeguard the fundamental rights of prisoners even during the current epidemic. In the context of the coronavirus pandemic, the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture has stated that every effort must be made to protect the health and safety of those who have lost their freedom, but these measures must not lead to inhuman or humiliating treatment and must be maintained. In the end, this is the same thing as in other contexts when it comes to restrictions: are the proposed measures really last, precise and proportionate to the situation? The proposal states that the central administration of the Criminal Sanctions Agency could decide to restrict or suspend the various activities of the prison or its department, the meetings of prisoners and the release of prisoners in order to prevent the spread of the epidemic in situations where it is apparent that the measures already taken or those provided for by the Prisons Act, the Prisons Act or the Act on Contagion are not sufficient — and should be so. Stricter restrictions must only be introduced once other means have already been tried and found inadequate. However, it has already become apparent from the statements made in the consultation of the Government's proposal that it is difficult to assess when such a situation actually exists. The proposal contains issues that need to be further considered in order to ensure that the good objectives are achieved in the desired way. For example, the proposal does not contain any regulation on the content of day-to-day schedules during restrictions and suspensions, which could in the worst scenarios lead to prisoners being practically closed around the clock in their cells. In serious situations, this may be justified momentarily, but in the event that the situation is prolonged for weeks or even months, regulation must be more precise and clearer in such situations. No one's rights should be restricted under the pretext of an epidemic any more than is justified. As a second point, I would just like to say briefly that the sum of detention sentences and the suspension of community sanctions will in future require additional resources, both for the Criminal Sanctions Agency and for the care of the prisoners, and I hope that the government will take these needs into account in its future decisions. All in all, this proposal is about the necessary things and the objectives are good, and we just have to make sure that the objectives are actually met properly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u6	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u7	Mr President! The situation of the Criminal Sanctions Agency will not be sustainable if it is not backed up by legislation that can counter the spread of the epidemic and, at the same time, ensure the safe and proper enforcement of penalties. The proposal suggests that the central administration of the Criminal Sanctions Agency could decide to restrict or suspend the separate activities of the prison or its department, the meetings of prisoners and the release of prisoners in order to prevent the spread of the epidemic. I believe that such a decision could be taken if it is quite obvious that the measures already taken are not sufficient to prevent the spread of the disease and to ensure that the implementation of detention is safe for all parties involved. According to data from the field, decisions taken in the units have not worked: for example, limiting activities for prisoners, reducing group sizes, using masks for prisoners and tightening other restrictions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u8	Congressman Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u9	Mr President! Koronapandemia is visible in every person’s everyday life and in prisons as well. It is important to ensure the health safety of prisoners and staff and to ensure the functioning of the Criminal Sanctions Agency. As with all fundamental rights restrictions, no further restrictions must be imposed on prisoners than is necessary. It is justified that restrictions on health protection are compatible with restrictions in society otherwise. Although there is an urgent need for this legislation, great care must be taken in assessing the impact and sensitivity of fundamental rights. I think it is important for prisoners to communicate with their loved ones and for meaningful activities, such as studying, to be secured in prison. This is not only humanly correct, but also relevant to the success of reintegration into society after the end of the prison period. It is also essential to ensure that restrictions do not result in synergies that can be considered unreasonable under prison conditions. For example, a complete restriction of social relations should not be done without a proper legal reason. In limiting prison activities and suspending meetings, priority should be given to organising these activities through alternative, health-safe measures that minimise restrictions on the rights of prisoners. These include meetings outdoors or distance connections, teaching with distance connections, library services in their own cell, leisure activities with non-standard arrangements, e.g. outdoors. Mr President! It is particularly important to carefully assess the impact of restrictions on children and to ensure that the best interests of the child are realised in all situations, as required by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is a good thing that the proposal restricts the right of access to children outside the limits, but also in other respects the impact on children must be carefully examined here in the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u10	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u11	Madam President! It is very important that this legal base should be put in place for these restrictive and suspension measures and that it can effectively prevent the spread of the epidemic. At the time of last spring, when the pandemic really spread here in Finland, solutions were found that sought quite a lot of these postponements of the execution of punishments. Of course, in the long term it cannot be a sustainable solution, and it was very important that this legislation has now been brought here. Of course, at this point in time the question arises that perhaps this too would have wished for a little more rapid action — or was it perhaps perhaps the idea that this worst stage of the epidemic should now be brought to an end and that we would not then need this type of legislation? But it is important, in any case, that this is now here, and I think that there has been a good mention of these proportionalitys, such as this limitation of the meeting of the child. It would not be possible to restrict or suspend it under the law, because it is, however, a very important right. Above all, I look at this from the point of view of the child's right. I then think about this — even in the speeches made by my colleagues, this concern about limiting social relations — when it comes to raising this ‘to the outside of the prison by means of a video or other appropriate technical communication’. It must be remembered, however, that last spring, when these measures were put in place for older people — people in nursing homes and dementia homes, for example — we did not forget at that point how to restrict these social relationships to people, even though other fundamental rights were not restricted. After all, in retrospect, many people who did not necessarily even understand what was going on around them were subjected to very unreasonable restrictions — they could not understand why their loved ones no longer go, why they are there alone in their own rooms, and so on. These are the things that, of course, I saw in retrospect, hindsight, can then be considered, but in that sense it must be remembered that in this society there are limits to people’s social relations even for those who have not been punished by you. When the Minister is here, I will say that when Mr Heinonen raised this issue of vaccination order, I think that this is quite appropriate. On the other hand, what information does the Criminal Sanctions Agency have on the illness of prisoners and prison guards? There's been some information in the public domain. Then, of course, it is important to consider the way in which, for example, a dangerous prisoner becomes ill, action is being taken in such a situation, and then this supervision can be carried out if, for example, he is subjected to:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u12	Congressman Huttunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u13	Madam President! The Government's proposal proposes to provide for a law on temporary measures for the enforcement of penalties and the execution of incarceration following the corona epidemic. The proposal suggests that the central administration of the Criminal Sanctions Agency could decide to restrict or suspend the separate activities of the prison or its department, the meeting of prisoners and the release of prisoners in order to prevent the spread of the epidemic. Such a decision could therefore be taken if it were apparent that the measures already taken to prevent the spread of the epidemic, as provided for by the Prisons Act, the Prisons Act or the Act on Contagious Diseases, are not sufficient to prevent the spread of the disease and to ensure that the execution of the prison is safe for society, staff and prisoners. The aim of the proposed law is therefore to ensure that there is a sufficiently precise legal basis for the enforcement of prison sentences and community sanctions as well as for the execution of detention. I believe that, in addition to this urgent, very important and timely government proposal, more permanent legislative proposals and practices should already be considered for possible new pandemics. It is very likely that this corona pandemic will not be the last scourge for our country and the world. Indeed, it is good to anticipate problems and not when the problems are already on the table. Corona pandemic has undeniably shown how vulnerable our modern society is and may continue to be in a pandemic situation if we do not anticipate it. Despite good hygiene, dense, modern settlements and large institutional units pose a risk to the spread of diseases. There is a record in the current Government Programme that the current prison network will not be reduced. I would like to ask the Minister whether future plans should even further decentralise the prison network and move to smaller units. Prisons in the provinces also have a close link with the business world, a link to employment and vitality in the region. There would be many good visions for the future. I consider the government's proposal and its objectives to be good, and we will certainly look at it carefully in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and the debate that is taking place in this Chamber as a means of preparing it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u14	Congressman Hänninen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u15	Mr President! It is also worth pointing out in the referral debate to this government's proposal that in its annual report, which was published a few weeks ago, the Ombudsman for Children raised the concern that last year the right of prisoners to meet their children was weak. The Ombudsman for Children was contacted and contacted the Criminal Sanctions Agency. It is very important for the rights of the child that the child also has the opportunity to meet his or her parents when the children do not live with their parents, for example when the child’s parent is in prison. This right should not be limited even in an exceptional period. During the exceptional period, we decision-makers must be particularly vigilant to ensure that this right is maintained. Unfortunately, this right was not safeguarded last year in the case of the children of prisoners. Mr President! That is why the government proposal now before us is important. For us in the Left Alliance, it is important that the protection of family life and the protection of the rights of the child are at the heart of restrictions. In the rule of law, these rights apply to all prisoners, including those living on the margins of society and their children. As chairman of the delegation on behalf of the child, I would like to thank you for stating in the motion that there could be no legal restriction or suspension of the child's meetings. This is extremely important for the realisation of the rights of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u16	At this point, we have spent almost all of that for half an hour on this. I will give the floor to Mr Henriksson at the end, for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u17	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you all for a very constructive debate and good questions. First of all, about this situation in our prisons: So far, about 70 people have fallen ill in covid-19 during the year, including both prisoners and staff. Of these, two prisoners have been hospitalized, and when the prisoner is hospitalized, normal procedures are followed, i.e. the police and the Criminal Sanctions Agency cooperate to agree on these methods of supervision. There should be no danger that a person who is in intensive care will run away. Then intensive care is not even the best place. That is why this question in itself is important. We now see that the situation in prisons has deteriorated. Fortunately, we have done quite well last year, but we have news that is particularly worrying about the prison in Helsinki. This week, all prisoners and all those who work in the prison in Helsinki will be tested, and that may also, of course, lead to more of these cases coming up this week. In any case, this legislation is also very important. It is important that within prisons it is also possible, on the basis of a good legal basis, to restrict the activities of prisoners when there is a risk that covid-19 will then be launched there in such a way that both staff and other prisoners are at risk of being infected, and that is what this bill is aimed at. There was also the question of the order of the vaccine. That is a matter for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and here we have, in the government, started to listen with a sensitive ear to what our health authorities are saying. There are many categories of personnel in a special position — prison guards, policemen, teachers and so on — and we have left to the government that the best thing is for our health authorities to take a stand on what is the vaccination order that is being followed in this country, and we are not going to make a political contribution to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u20	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u21	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session. — Representative Werner absent. — Mr Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u22	Mr President! Korona has affected society as a whole and has also posed challenges to the functioning of prisons. In fact, many prisons have found infections. I think the worst situation is in the prison in Helsinki, where prisoners have been diagnosed with several coronavirus infections. In Helsinki prison, all prisoners are quarantined by prison health care, and I think the whole prison is in lockdown at the moment. The Government proposal proposes that the central administration of the Criminal Sanctions Agency may decide to restrict the activities of one or more prisons. Restrictive measures could apply to the entire prison or individual ward and could apply to both prisoners in prison and prisoners in prison. Restrictive measures could apply to meetings of prisoners and could also restrict or suspend exit permits altogether. The introduction of restrictive measures would require that they are necessary to prevent the spread of the disease. For example, the harm caused by restrictions to prisoners would be reduced by making it possible to communicate more freely outside prison through video communication. According to the government's proposal, the basic care of prisons, such as outdoor activities, could not be restricted. Furthermore, the restrictions would not apply to the meeting of the prisoner’s child or agent. Nor could an exit permit for a very important reason be restricted. President! I believe that this proposal is justified. In fact, it is continuing this long chain of interest rate restrictions which we have come into with regard to many measures. Of course, prisons are special circumstances in which health safety claims also exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u23	Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u24	Mr President! The aim of this proposal is to provide a sufficient legal basis for the implementation of prison sentences and community sanctions and the execution of detention in the event of a corona virus epidemic. This will ensure that the necessary measures can be taken smoothly without delay and that the impact of the epidemic on the enforcement of penalties would be minimised. Finland is the rule of law, where every effort should be made to ensure the functioning of systems such as imprisonment and detention, including in crisis situations. The problem with the current situation has been that it has not taken sufficient account of the effects of the epidemic. The admission of sentenced persons to prisons has had to be limited in part, and, for example, prison visits and leave permits have been denied on a massive scale at times during the epidemic. In addition, the internal activities of prisons, such as working and leisure time, have had to be restricted. In several countries the corona virus has spread extensively in prisons, and a similar spread of the disease has not been avoided in Finland either. It is therefore necessary to update the measures in such a way as to protect the health and safety of prison staff. The seriousness of the situation is also demonstrated by the fact that, for example, the Parliamentary Ombudsman, who carries out national checks on prisons and other closed institutions, has had to suspend his inspection as a result of the epidemic. This proposal is a necessary correction to address the shortcomings caused by epidemic conditions in the enforcement of prison sentences and community sanctions as well as the execution of detention.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u25	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Haatainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u26	Mr President! Temporary Article 3a of the Act on Accommodation and Catering Regulation on the limitation of the period between The regulation adopted pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Article lays down the areas in which the temporary closure is applied, as well as the types of restaurants and restaurants affected by these restrictions. In addition, paragraph 4 imposes an obligation on the Government to monitor compliance with the conditions of necessity of the restrictions. If a restriction is no longer necessary in any region, the Government must immediately take measures to amend the Regulation in accordance with the law. On 28 March, the Government adopted a regulation temporarily restricting the opening hours of restaurants in order to prevent the spread of infectious disease. The decree was submitted to Parliament in accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution. On Friday 9 April, Parliament decided, in accordance with the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that this regulation should not be repealed. The closure of these nutritional establishments must be limited to what is necessary, both regionally and over time. The law requires the Government to monitor the necessity. On the basis of these monitoring data, the Government decided on 8 April to amend the decree in the Province of Lapland for the municipality of Kittilä and for the province of Northern Ostrobothnia. The disease situation has improved in these areas and a complete closure has been possible in this respect. For the rest, the Regulation remained unchanged. A referral debate will be held on this amendment to the Decree, which has been submitted to Parliament for ex post verification in accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution. The amended Regulation provides for the entry into force of a barrier to the movement of food in those areas where it is necessary to prevent the spread of coronavirus pandemic. Under the Regulation, the movements of nutrition must be kept closed in the worst epidemiological areas. Nutrition stores must be kept closed to customers in Uusimaa, Varsinais-Suomi, Satakunta, Kanta-Häme, Pirkanmaa, Päijät-Häme, Central Finland, Kymenlaakso, South Karelia, Etelä-Savo, North Savo, North Karelia and Ostrobothnia. The Government has now assessed the need for the closure of nutrition stores by region, relying specifically on the expertise of health authorities. Special emphasis has been placed on the expert approach of the THL. In addition, the Government has assessed the possibilities of limiting the regional scope of the regulation in a more subtle way than the regional division required by Parliament. In view of the fact that the regions with the largest area in the amending regulation are outside the scope of the exclusion obligation, the Government has considered that the need for a more sophisticated examination is now lower and has decided on regional allocation by region. The monitoring also assessed whether the necessity criterion for different types of restaurants and premises is met in such a way that the closure should be continued to target all nutritional movements in a uniform manner. Even in the current epidemic situation, it has been necessary to reduce the physical encounters of the adult population, particularly those aged 20 to 45, in order to ensure that the epidemic is reversed. The Regulation has therefore not been amended in this regard. In regions which are not covered by the restriction, nutritional establishments can continue to be open to customers, and these companies must, of course, comply with the restrictions imposed by and under the Act on communicable diseases. The law and regulation on this closure are now in force for Sunday 18. Until 1 April, and since 19 April, the activities of the catering companies will be regulated under Article 58a of the Act on communicable diseases, which is now the next item in Parliament at second reading, which falls within the remit of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u27	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u28	Madam President! We are dealing with regulation M 6/2021, which has already entered into force and is now in the so-called ex post check, going to the Constitutional Committee. Minister Haatainen went through this situation, and quite a few points raised this necessity and necessity and explained that the need for change arose, among other things: Kittilä, mainly Levi, which has now been exempted from these strict interest rates and then also North Ostrobothnia. Of course, you must ask, what is the situation in areas such as North Savo or North Karelia with long distances? In many places it is quite unreasonable to maintain such strict interest rate restrictions. In the previous debate, when we discussed this regulation, I brought up a few examples of municipalities where there has been virtually no corona during this period of over a year. Minister Haatainen mentioned the desire to rely on the expert opinions of the THL. Well, today STT actually dropped — in its own words — a news bomb under Mika Salminen. The meeting of the Constitutional Committee was announced in March. This was about these restaurant bans, but also about outdoor bans, which Prime Minister Sanna Marin had said here in Parliament a few days earlier in a referral debate, that it is precisely THL that has estimated that restrictions on movement are necessary to control the epidemic and ensure the carrying capacity of health care. Well, it has now become clear that, in fact, THL has not said what Prime Minister Marin has said here in Parliament. At the meeting of the Constitutional Committee at the end of March, Mika Salminen stated that, when asked, ‘the necessary effect of the government’s restrictions on movement could also be achieved by limiting the more relevant risks of infection, e.g. by closing down private events and services’. Salminen has confirmed his information to the STT today. And now the question is: why did Prime Minister Marin in Parliament suggest that these experts from the THL, which Mr Haatainen has raised today, would have provided other information? I am making this point in this debate because, unfortunately, if the Prime Minister calls on the THL in the parliamentary delegation debate, we parliamentarians must be able to count on him to speak the truth in this Chamber, and now that it has become clear that the Director of the THL, Mika Salminen, has said that this is not the only option, then we will now be able to count on what we can really count on in this debate. And it came to mind the words of the legendary Pena, when Yle told me today that the Department of Justice brought its own proposal in the last minute. The Prime Minister's Office had already decided to introduce restrictions on movement, the Ministry of Justice tried to propose an alternative implementation model for restrictions on movement this weekend. However, Pekka Timonen, the Secretary of State of the Ministry, stated: ‘But he has responded to the mandate which the collegiate has had. “ This is quite a fundamental issue, Mr President. What confidence can we have in this Chamber if the Prime Minister appeals to the opinions of the THL and to the views of the THL, which will soon become untrue?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u31	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u32	Madam President! We are dealing with a Government decree which means that in Northern Ostrobothnia and the region of Lapland In the case of Kittilä, there would no longer be a need to hold on to the nutritional movements there. That is the content of this proposal, and it is good that this is now going to go through the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and that is where it must be carefully examined. Mr President! When we are talking about restaurants, it is important to say the following in this connection: The epidemic of interest has plagued our country — people and businesses and, in particular, restaurants — with a great deal of strength, and therefore no way of reducing the human, social and economic damage caused by the corona to society can be left untapped. It was good that the government published its exit strategy. In contrast to many government proposals, which have been prepared in secret, it took a consultation. The goal of gradually opening Finland is really good, it is also in the exit strategy published a couple of weeks ago, but unfortunately the Government's draft is still hollow. In many countries, the opening up of society is on the move. In Denmark, for example, a rapid and health-proof vaccination card is used to open society. And, ladies and gentlemen, that vaccination certificate, the vaccination card, has been parliamentaryly agreed in Denmark. There, under the leadership of the government, but together with all the parliamentary parties, that has been agreed upon. Could we not also do this in Finland, that is to say, agree on the introduction of a vaccination card and also on the whole exit strategy, together with parliamentary parties? The parliamentary group of the Coalition Party has taken the initiative under the leadership of the group chairman, Kai Mykkänen, to introduce a vaccination card, and that initiative is also at the disposal of the government, and we could also agree on it together on the basis of that initiative. Indeed, we propose that the government take immediate action to enable a faster and safer opening up of society by introducing a corona certificate. The knockout of that digital vaccination card would be a heartless act on the part of the government. There are companies, cultural actors, the field of events, tourism. Vaccination certificates would be particularly welcome for senior citizens who were isolated for the year, without human contact and many other Finns at risk. Even when the minister’s speech said that the necessity must be fulfilled when restrictions are made, it is good to ask in this connection that when we have access to a vaccination card, a vaccination pass or a vaccination certificate — why do we cross it together if we can agree on it together — will the necessity then be fulfilled? Would it not be the right time to mobilise all the instruments and to enable the opening up of a Finnish society in a health-safe manner? This would allow us to gradually open up Finnish society before the general constraints are removed, and this would certainly be welcome both for companies and for those lonely people who may even be overwhelmed by the loneliness when they are without any human contact. Business cashiers and people's bank accounts are empty. People need to be able to do and try if it can safely be made possible. And that is why I appeal to Mr Haatainen: you, as a competent and wise minister, understand the importance of this, and I hope that you will now also take this proposal to the government so that we can agree on it on a parliamentary basis. This vaccination card is not new. This is something I myself have already tightened up last year. There's everything in the pod, but the government hasn't taken it. And as far as this necessity is concerned, I wonder why this has not been tackled, because this would really be an opportunity to open up Finland now and to make it easier for us to get out of this corona discipline. Mr President! A lot of people are wondering what that vaccine card, passport, would be. Indeed, it is a card or document that could verify information on vaccination or negative test results or diseased corona disease. This is also a way for us to be able to dismantle very strongly the restrictions that violate fundamental human rights before we can overcome these general restrictions in society as a whole, we can move forward quickly and with health security. Wouldn't this be the thing we're supposed to be catching up on right now? Mr President! I am very surprised that Minister Kiuru has even called this proposal an instrument of closure. Is it not quite the opposite? It would be good now to hear from Minister Haatainen what the position of the government is. And at the end of the day, I ask who it is away from if, for example, an older person who has been locked in four walls for almost a year, a senior who took the government's recommendations as orders, could get into a theatre, for example. Would that be out of our hands? I'm sure it wouldn't be. I'm sure that would be more for everyone. The last thing I say is that when the government has flashed the legal problems associated with this card, a number of legal scholars have said that they do not see such a fundamental obstacle that this cannot be introduced. And that's the last thing I wonder when the government is preparing this vaccination card at EU level, why it could not be introduced to Finland when it would help Finnish companies, help Finnish people, us, to get rid of this corona discipline safely. Indeed, I hope — perhaps tomorrow — that the government will invite the parliamentary parties and that we can agree on this card and on the Corona-Exit strategy to get it done together. Justification: Mr Heinonen said here that it was unclear whether they were necessary with regard to restrictions on movement. The Prime Minister said they were necessary. Today we have read about the media,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u33	I am not going to give answers here because there are pre-arranged speeches here and I will give them first. — And now, Mr Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u34	Mr President! This regulation, which we are dealing with today, is a good illustration of the rather difficult decision-making situation we are in. Of course, it is a great relief to all of us that the number of corona infections has come down surprisingly quickly for the last two weeks, and at the same time this regulation shows how difficult it is for one size of shirt to try to agree which restrictions are proportionate. Here I draw particular attention to the opinion of the Hospital District of North Savo as an example. They say that the carrying capacity has never been threatened and that they have not even been able to define the stage of the epidemic in Kuopio, let alone at the entire hospital district level. There has also been no need for further restrictions. It is highly unlikely that Kuopio’s limited infectious clustering will become a further infection. They would also require that it is important to assess the different risks of feeding movements as a source of corona spread, broken down by the nature of their activities. This has not been signed by any restaurant entrepreneur, let alone a restaurant lobbyer, but by Director General Antti Hedman, Chairman of the Regional Coordination Group of North Savo, who, at the same time as regards the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health regulation, states in the explanatory memorandum that the THL shares the view that the epidemic situation in northern Savo makes it necessary to continue to close the restaurant in the province, i.e. contrary to the recommendation of its own North Savo Hospital District. I am not just setting this example because it is, of course, directly important to thousands of workers, but because I understand the pain of the government in this regard, how we open up in a controlled manner and take due account of jobs and people's freedoms, while at the same time guarding against too fast, unsafe opening up. I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that this type of criticism will increase in the coming months, and that is why all the means that we can genuinely target health-required restrictions on those people and situations for which it is genuinely necessary should be used. That is why I am asking the Minister for Employment, who is here to answer whether the government has now really decided once and for all that Finland is not prepared to introduce a corona certificate in terms of domestic effectiveness, so that it is one way of opening up services and events faster and more. I am concerned that the government’s exit plan, published on page 7, says: ‘Because of the rush of vaccination,the government does not consider it appropriate to make the use of different rights for those who have been given vaccinations, but that the restrictions in force are, as a matter of principle, still applied to all. “ On page13 it further stated:‘At this stage, vaccination However, in recent days the representatives of the government parties have spoken more positively, and we have been encouraging to note that. For example, Mrs Ilmari Nurminen, with whom I was on the same air, suggested that in fact the main government party or government would not take a negative view of the introduction of the corona certificate, provided that its technical challenges are resolved, and that it is being prepared, as Minister Kiuru has also said. So what is the truth, Minister Haatainen: will the government use the corona certificate to enable Aili or Arto to participate in a cultural event, for example, as early as May, so that the cultural or sports sector can have some oxygen also for this spring, or will it be ruled out as an additional means that is not wanted to be prepared? Of course, we would not close anything in Finland — not anyone — that the government's exit plan would open to everyone, but there is concern that the government's exit plan does not promise a clear opening up to the cultural and sports sector or services in the form it is currently in the consultation round. For example, on page 32 of its annex, it is stated that in group activities between 12 and 19-year-olds, the aim is not to engage in indoor activities, i.e. indoor activities, i.e. for 12 to 19-year-olds. For adults, group activities outside would be in July at the earliest. Will this society be able to cope in a balanced way between May and June, so that even outside group activities would be limited so strictly to everyone, while a significant part of the population is beginning to be protected from vaccination and have tools to demonstrate, for example, by a recent negative test that it is not the individual to be infected? For example, what do you have to say to Hesa Cup organisers or organisers of summer cultural events? It is not a question of restricting anyone's fundamental right if the person in the government's plan has those fundamental rights in place, it is precisely a question of faster and more securely. Indeed, most fundamental rights experts themselves have said this rather roundly. For example, Professor Tuomas Ojanen has already said that he does not see a categorical barrier and, in fact, Martin Schein said that if it is clear that there is a risk difference sufficiently between those who have been vaccinated or those who have received a fresh test, this could be thought of. So do we actually have the right to limit the fundamental freedoms of a person who could use his phone to show that his risk of infection is low? I'm asking if such a right even exists. There is little time technically, but fortunately there is no departure from an empty table, because the THL and STM have already prepared a corona certificate, a boarding passport-type application. We are talking about regulations, and you, the government, will be able to regulate them, if necessary, we will help. We have submitted an initiative for action. Let us hope that this can be one of the incentives to move forward on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u35	At this stage, I will give the floor to Mr Zyskowicz and then to Mr Haatainen. — Mr Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u36	Madam President! This is about some liberalisation of restaurants from the lock, but when this is about how to open up Finland after this corona crisis, the corona epidemic, I thought I would talk about it a little more broadly. This preliminary government exit plan is not intended to make use of the corona certificate that has been spoken here, that is, a situation in which people would have to present a certificate of either the vaccine received, the diseased disease or the recent negative test. And, as you have now heard from these last speeches, the coalition is strongly based on the fact that, in order to open this society earlier, the introduction of such a corona certificate would be absolutely reasonable and appropriate. We could open cultural events and other events in the past, let people into the volleyball game stands and so on. I have to say that I believe that Mr Marin and Mr Kiuru's attitude towards this introduction of the corona certificate has been quite wrong. The Prime Minister, Mr Marin, said here last Thursday during Question Time: ‘Is the idea of prohibiting any otherparticipation in socialservices except for those who have been vaccinated? “ And he said:‘Is it meant to exclude services from them,who have not been vaccinated?’. And Minister Kiurus said on 8.4.A-studio wordfully follows:‘But This attitude of the ministers, Mrs Marin and Mr Kiuru, is, after all, completely out of line. It is not a question of not opening up to everyone something that can be opened to everyone in a health-safe way. It is not a question of whether, otherwise, an event, an opportunity, is closed to everyone, but it is an opportunity for them to participate as an audience and as workers, for whom it is health-safe. So the alternative to this corona certificate is not, contrary to what the Prime Minister and Minister Kiuru seem to have misunderstood, to open up to everyone, but the alternative is not to open up to anyone, because we are talking about the time when there are still no health security conditions for everyone. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] So, in the opinion of the demars and the government, is it better that these event and cultural entrepreneurs are still unable to try to ensure that their subcontractors are still unable to do their work? Is it better that these artists, actors, violinists and partners are still unable to do their work? And they've been out of work for a year. Is it better for it to continue than to open up society in this respect to even some Finns? So this is also a question of dismantling fundamental rights restrictions. We have rightly limited the fundamental rights of these people, the freedom of business for entrepreneurs, the right of artists and musicians to work — we have limited their fundamental rights. We would now be liberating them from these fundamental rights restrictions, and this is not something they want to accept — quite incomprehensible. This is indeed, as Mr Orpo said in the A-Studio, the classic equality of demars and the left. If you can't offer everyone a chance, you don't offer it to anyone. If Minister Kiuru has one cow and I have no cow, then let's take that cow from Minister Kiuru, then we'll be equal. [Johannes Koskinen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u41	Secretary Haatainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u42	Mr President! So we are now dealing with this restaurant closure law, which is about to end on Sunday. It has now been in two sections for three weeks, and this law has always immediately changed it, that is to say, restaurants have been opened if the infection situation, the spread of the infectious disease, has made it easier, and this is what is happening in this regulation concerning Northern Ostrobothnia and the municipality of Kittilä in Lapland, which was exceptionally closed there because of the infectious disease situation. With this we have now been able to reduce these infections. I can say that as a minister it was a relief to hear from the news that over 40% of the young adult population has come down with these infections. It is of enormous importance to our business, to our businesses and especially to these people and their families. It is a major, major change that has now been achieved with these restrictions. Well, now the government is going to open up Finland and it will be done gradually, and now the government will discuss it. Soon I will be going from here to the House of Regulation, and we will have a discussion on how to now open this disease in a controlled manner so that at no time will this disease be able to bludgeon and then get its vaccination coverage back on track. I would like to see no such ideological, political confrontation raised by any single means.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u46	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u47	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — — — — Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u48	Madam President! Indeed, here we have another regulation during this second restaurant closure in the referral debate. The regulation limits the opening hours of nutritionists by region to prevent the spread of infectious disease. However, this time it does not go to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, but I can say that, fortunately, the first regulation went to the Committee on Economic Affairs last week and then to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because it is now reflected in this regulation. In other words, when the law of the restaurant lock was adopted a few weeks ago, the first decree exempting some provinces where the disease situation was good, Lapland was also released, except for the municipality of Kittilä. Unfortunately, however, the first regulation did not exempt the region of Northern Ostrobothnia, where the disease situation was better than that of Lapland. Now that last week the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy heard and, in fact, the previous week asked for these regional disease situations and statistics by municipality, for example, from North Ostrobothnia and North Savo, this regulation shows that the conditions for restrictive action in Northern Ostrobothnia, the region from which I come, were no longer met. In that sense, I would like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for this ex-post review of the regulation and, in particular, for asking for opinions. It is exciting, as Mr Mykkänen, the chairman of our parliamentary group, pointed out earlier in this debate, that the government did not liberalise the restaurants in North Savo and did not do that municipal review, even though the conditions in North Savo would have been met. At the beginning of this referral debate, the Minister specifically pointed out that the government has made an update of the regulation and, if the disease situation has made it possible, restaurants have been opened on a regional or local basis. As far as North Savo is concerned, we must ask why this did not happen. Over the last few weeks, in addition to this municipal discussion, more parliamentary committees and the whole hall have thus required restaurant-type regulation, and this would make it easier for these weeks to come, with clear regulation of what is a lunch restaurant, a restaurant, a pub, a diner, a café, a nightclub and so on. Now all we have in the legislation is nutrition, restaurants and staff canteens. It does not give a good impression when we go back another year in the interest rate situation and have to restrict the entire restaurant industry. Mr President! Now that this regulation has already expired on Sunday this week, this regulation will not be subject to the same review that the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs carried out on that first regulation, and in that sense it is regrettable that this disease situation in Northern Savo will no longer be assessed this week. That is why we must insist that the government, having adopted this amendment to the Act on Disease Control, which has also been in the Chamber today, now clearly informs the regions when this regional and municipal examination is being carried out, whether it is being carried out weekly, whether it will be carried out at the end of April, at the beginning of May, or how, because it is the only way to get information to the sector as well, so that in those regions where the disease situation is improving — hopefully there will be more provinces — entrepreneurs will also know when they can open up. It is truly regrettable that the Parliamentary Committee on Social Affairs and Health did not end up changing those times, which means that from Monday next week we want to open restaurants in areas with worse disease and epidemic conditions, so that in practice only lunch restaurants can be opened. If it is the will state, then it should also be said that it is just that. We know that no restaurant, apart from the lunch restaurants, can open doors in such a way that the opening hours at 5 p.m. or 6 p.m. — or even 7 p.m. — would be profitable when, however, we have to stop drinking at 5 p.m., which means that many food restaurants and evening restaurants are just opening up. Finally, when an update cannot be obtained in this respect, it is necessary, however, to anticipate, transparency and clarity in this regulation of restaurants, to regulate by type of restaurant and then at least for the weeks to come with regard to this Act on communicable diseases, to know when and when this corresponding regulation for the government will be updated and evaluated. It's a minimum requirement for the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u49	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u50	Mr President! A few more comments on this regulation and, above all, on these restaurant closures. In today's debate, Minister Haatainen said that the conditions of necessity must be followed, and on this basis, Kittilä and North Ostrobothnia have risen to the point where restaurants can be open, as they have been today. After all, it took pressure from the Parliament to do this, and it was a little surprised when this parliamentary pressure there did not really bite, but it started to work. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we asked, in fact, for statements from the hospital districts of the sub-regions of the North, and they brought out such an interesting element that I could present at the end of the day. The Minister stated that the views of the health authorities have been taken into account, with emphasis on the views of the THL. And that's what it looked like. The fact that there had been a relatively limited dialogue between THL and the local hospital districts, even at all, was the result of this discussion. As a result, it was very important, Mr President, that we received statements from these regional hospital districts. Today we have been talking about North Savo's statements and views, and earlier we heard views from North Ostrobothnia and also from South Ostrobothnia, which also got out of this lock. In fact, the question here is who best knows its regional health situation. Does it know THL or the regional hospital district with senior officials who know what is really going on in that province? If you go through these statements from the hospital districts, all of them shared the fact that they stated that, in their view, in the case of restaurants, this barrage in these areas has been virtually useless — in practice unnecessary. As a result, it could be signaled in the direction of the government that it is not high time that the health assessment should be summed up in such a way that the medical districts and the THL together assess these issues. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u51	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u52	Madam President! This is a nice dialogue — because I was prepared to speak about this type of speech. Some colleagues have already pointed out to myself that I use a little too many numbers in my speeches, but so many things are now so many that they have to be described in numbers. And I would remind you that this regulation, which we are now dealing with, was adopted on 8 April, last Thursday of last week, and at that time this incidence figure was 13, in Lapland, 8 in Western Ostrobothnia — well they are the same province but therefore different medical districts — in Northern Ostrobothnia, 17 in Central Ostrobothnia, 23 in Central Ostrobothnia, 15 in Kainuu, and 22 in South Ostrobothnia, all less than 25. It is now obvious that it has been thought that this 25 is such an important figure in this respect. That is why this has been a logical decision that now that the situation in North Ostrobothnia was less than 25, that is, the 17 I mentioned, it came into this category. North Savo, on the other hand, has been 45 at the same time, it is already significantly higher, and I would personally draw attention to the fact that North Karelia, 32 at a lower rate than North Savo, has been on the rise, and the Hospital District of Vaasa, or Ostrobothnia, 33 at the same time, has been in number 49. Then we have had four hospital districts in more than 50 chapters but not more than 100 chapters, and then we have had six hospital districts in more than 100 chapters, of which Uusimaa is the only one in over 200. So, yes, this has been based on such objective things, and in my opinion these are things that can be measured. Of course, the dialogue between THL and the hospital districts is important here. Then, as a comment to Mrs Talvitie, when you called for the clear regulation of the restaurant type, that now that I have certainly been dealing with these issues myself dozens of times in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we have all missed it. And let me just say that the opposition's presentations have never been more specific than what we now have, this duality: restaurants which have their turnover mainly from alcohol sales, and then the others. We know that there are certainly 10 or 20 types of restaurant — depending on how fine it is — but this has been the problem. Lawyers have said that it should then be so clear, because if different restrictions are imposed, it must be legally horrendous. It's just that it hasn't been possible since. Sorry.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u53	Representative Kauuto gone, representative Juuso gone, representative Reijonen gone, representative Kopra gone. — Mr Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u54	Madam President! Indeed, at the request of the Assembly, the medical districts, i.e. the regional health authorities, have also been consulted during the preparatory phase. In Northern Ostrobothnia, for example, it turned out that there was no need for a lock. Mr President! It is important for the assembly that the corona be contained and that the restrictions are effective. However, despite repeated comments, the government has not been able to strictly target restrictions at regional level so that in areas where closure is not necessary, no restaurant closures are carried out. This focus was called for, among other things, by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in its opinion. The Coalition Party proposes that the restaurants should be offered a real opportunity to operate. We have proposed that the sale of alcohol products of a maximum strength of wine be allowed and that restrictions be strictly targeted on the regional level only where they are absolutely necessary. VAT on liquor must be reduced to the level of food on a temporary basis. Mr President! I regret that the government did not agree to a reasonable increase in the closure fee. Restaurants have used all the financial buffers during the corona year. The loans have been raised, the savings have been spent, the cashiers have been emptied. Still, the government insisted that restaurants have ownership. What do you pay for when the cash register is empty? The closure allowance should be corrected as a matter of urgency and the ban on the pursuit of a business should be replaced retrospectively by adequate compensation for restaurants. After the interest rate, a view of economically sustainable growth must be created for restaurants. This requires adequate compensation for the restriction of business activities. At the moment, the situation around Finland is very difficult. A significant number of companies are at risk of bankruptcy, turnover has fallen, there have already been closures and, for example, in programme services, as many as 44 per cent of companies are at risk of bankruptcy. In these circumstances, I hope that the Government will take these proposals of the Assembly seriously, and I hope that,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u55	Congressman Ovaska is gone. — Mr Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u56	Irade fru talman! Vi diskuterar auri i kväll statsrådets förordning om temporära stänningar av restaurant för att begränsa spridningen av coronaviruses. Den raus förordningen utgår ifrån den temporära lag som ricksdage redan tidigare har godkänt. Det auri handlar om en förordning där riksdage gör en effecterhands control. Den auri förordningen är redan i kraft och har inneburit att restaurantanger i norra Österbotten och i Kittila har fått öppna på nowt i måndags. Grundlagsutskottet kommer enligt grundlagen behandla förordningen och göra den oxerhandskontrollen och tar sig an den ox frågan i morgon på utskottsmötet. Grundlagsutskottet har tidigare poängterat i förhållande till Åland att restauranter normalt är åländsk lagstiftningsbehörighet medan smittskydd är rikets lagstiftningsbehörighet och att man därför behöver koordinera hur man beslutar om restaurantstanningar eller begränsningar på Åland. När den raus lagen trädde i kraft hade man en mycket god contact mellan statsrådet och Ålands landskapsregering där man skapade sig en gemensenem lägesbild som gjorde att restaurantangerna kunde öppna igen på Åland för TVå veckor sedan, Vilket var ett mycket motiverat beslut med tanke på det epidemiska läget just då. Jag vill bara tacka statsrådet för att man på det viset verklgen har följt det vi har skrivit i grundlagsutskottets utlåtande i de arvärendena, allt man behöver koordera de tor sakerna tillsammans mellan statrådet och Ålands landskapsregering. På det viset undviker man onödiga missförstånd eller också att det uppstår problem som har att göra med Ålands självstyrelse. Det är är jätteviktigt, för det bygger både förtroende och respekt, och det är precis på det sättet som vi bör agera i de ärendena. — Tack. [PresidentAnuVehviläinen : Joint motion. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u59	Congressman Berg is gone. — Mr Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u60	Mr President! In order to stop the spread of interest, it has been necessary to reduce contacts between people. As a result, restrictions on the opening hours and the number of seats in restaurants have also been justified. However, people’s understanding has been tested when restaurants are restricted even in a place where the corona has not been seen on lands or hills and has thus not been felt to pose a significant risk. So the single note has been disturbed, quite deservedly, but fortunately, the run has now been improved. It is also quite clear, as has been said here, that the risk profiles of restaurants are different, and we know the logic of the corona virus. Therefore, bundling into the same mold has been partly illogical. Mr Lindén has already very expertly described this problem, which has to do with it. As far as restrictive measures are concerned, we have therefore talked about meeting the necessary conditions. We cannot impose restrictive measures in the interests of certainty, but we must be able to justify why these restrictions are necessary to stop the spread of infections. In other words, the restrictive measures have moved on to the smaller regions. This is a good solution, and it is exactly where the legislation on restrictive measures has developed. President! Article 2 of the Government Decree against the spread of infectious disease In other words, it is now proposed that restaurants should be opened in the province of Northern Ostrobothnia and in the region of Lapland, also in the municipality of Kittilä. The possibility of dismantling restrictive measures is a good sign and also gives hope for the recovery of the interest rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u61	Representative Wallinheimo absent, representative al-Taee absent, representative of Adlercreutz absent, representative of Pirttila absent. — Representative Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u63	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Representative Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u64	Madam President! The Korona epidemic is serious and the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party has in every way supported the government’s impressive efforts that have been necessary to control the virus. Now we are dealing with the amendment of the Act on Contagious Diseases at second reading, and it must be said first of all that the government has been severely restricting the activities of restaurants for a year now, and this proposal under discussion would limit the activities of restaurants even more severely after the closure. Opening restaurants according to the presentation would not be profitable for much of the restaurants. This proposal would lead to increased bankruptcies, layoffs and layoffs. The coalition does not accept the government's proposal, but proposes to reject it. We have here Mia Laiho, vice-chairman of the committee, who protests about a solution that provides health security in the way restaurants try — that is, health safety in the way restaurants try. We think it is serious that the government does not understand entrepreneurship and we do not think that it has sufficiently taken into account the repeated positions of the Constitutional Committee and even the diversity of types of restaurants. We have repeatedly dealt with this issue here, and there is a feeling that the ears are closed to the need and messages that have come from everywhere and that we could have made better decisions, not only to ensure health safety, but also to ensure that, despite the corona, we can try and make sure that restaurants can operate safely. In that excellent protest under the leadership of Mia Laiho, Vice-President of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we propose that there should be lighter restrictions on outdoor catering areas, i.e. terraces. We propose fairer compensation for restaurants and a temporary reduction in VAT on alcoholic beverages to 14%. Does that ring a bell? That is what we have repeatedly put forward. We require the government to develop an exit strategy to ensure that the conditions for profitable business for restaurants in the future and to improve the investment and growth potential of the industry. My question is: why have you government parties repeatedly opposed these? We have heard widely from experts, from operators in the sector, and they have wanted these, they have presented them, but you have always harshly rejected them. The fifth statement in this very well-founded and skilfully and carefully drafted objection, in my opinion, is that we propose to temporarily allow the sale of wines to restaurants with the right to drink. This is the objective that numerous representatives of the government parties have called for in social media. This has been put forward, but it has also been voted down. I now appeal to the representatives of the government parties. When Mr Laiho repeats our objections and arguments here and explains them in more detail, I would appeal to you to vote in favour of these proposals when we vote. They would make it possible for entrepreneurs to make a health-proof effort to avoid bankruptcy, layoffs, the unfortunate fates that very low-income restaurant workers have when they have not been able to work. These are quite reasonable in relation to the measures provided by the State. A large number of these are those who would not even pay, but would indeed be able to make an effort by entrepreneurs. At the end of the day, I would like to say that the assembly has a strong concern for the entrepreneurs and workers in the restaurant sector, for their livelihoods. There are empty cashiers, and the workers have empty bank accounts and purses, and, indeed, with the approval of these statements, we could together help the very tense situation in the restaurant sector. And yes, in this situation, it would also help to introduce the vaccine certificate. We could break down the serious restrictions on fundamental rights that have been justified by the corona epidemic. If that card were introduced, we would be able to dismantle the restrictions more quickly, people would be able to try and act more quickly before the general restrictions were lifted. Would this not be justified? And knowing that that card exists and the possibility of introducing it raises the question of how we can refrain from using it. It would make it easier for people and, above all, for Finnish society. I really hope that a message will come from here to the House of Regulation, and perhaps tomorrow the Prime Minister will invite all the parliamentary parties and we could agree to introduce that vaccination card, as has been done in the Danish Parliament. Let’s do it together – the Coalition Party wants to work together and raise the Finnish interest rate from this low.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u65	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u66	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I will continue a little on the subject I mentioned in the previous speech. I tried to speak quickly, but I could not say everything I had thought. However, as a new point, first Minister Haatainen. I understand he regretted that in this interest rate system and in opening up Finland, I understood that this issue of corona certificates has been made such an ideological question. Well, anyone who has listened to my speeches here or in public about this interest rate system in Finland knows that I have not approached this issue ideologically or in any way as such a government-opposition issue but I have given my support to the government, which I believe has handled this issue relatively well in Finland. But let me be frank: on this point, in rejecting this corona certificate, I am quite shocked, and I am not exaggerating. I am quite shocked that Prime Minister Marin and Minister Kiuru have so clearly rejected this idea and that they have seen this matter in some way completely out of control, as if it were a question of opening up to everyone, and then, when the corona certificate is introduced, it is not open to everyone. That's not what this is about. It is a question of whether certain events, events, cultural events and others are closed to everyone or whether they are open to some. The fact that they have been of the opinion that it is impossible to open up to some if it cannot be open to everyone is, in my view, a very strange idea. And the fact that Minister Kiuru spoke on television about closure certificates is incomprehensible to me. Fortunately, Mr Haatainen said in his previous speech that, in my view, the government is prepared to look at this without prejudice. And this is what Mrs Ilmari Nurminen also referred to a couple of days ago on Maikkari's morning television — or not only referred to, but said that the government has not rejected this sort of thing. Well, I would ask Mr Nurmi to read the statements made by Prime Minister Marin, who I quoted earlier, and to see what the Minister has said. Kiuru said it at the A-talk a few days ago. But if this demographic position is turning or turning, that is a good thing. If the government is now in the process of negotiating today, which is just in these minutes, or an hour from now, or is ready to take up this matter, then that is a good thing. However, when Minister Haatainen said that everything is covered and a little prepared, I would like to emphasise the issue of timetables. This project is in a hurry, which means that it must be put up as soon as possible so that it can be used. Otherwise we will be in September, in October — I do not know where. And hopefully, by then, the Finnish corona epidemic will be in a position to open up widely to everyone. Who would object if it were possible? I personally believe that even if we go in a good direction, such a certificate could open up Finnish society in some respects by months earlier than without such a certificate. I encourage the government to tackle this issue and to move forward quickly. It makes no sense for this to be accepted in European tourism, but when it comes to accepting it in Finland, in Finland, then it is a fundamental right issue. Well, if it is, why is it not a fundamental right issue on the tourist side? A few words on these constitutional issues. After all, Article 6(2) of the Constitution prohibits people from being put in a different position without an acceptable basis. Well, is this an acceptable argument that some can be opened up, that restrictions on fundamental rights can be lifted for some artists, entrepreneurs in the field of events, and that they can not open society to everyone? Is this discrimination prohibited by the Constitution? Of course, as is natural, the positions of the constitutional experts on this matter have differed and crossed the line. For example, Professor Tuomas Ojanen has, in principle, believed that this would not be discrimination prohibited by the Constitution. Then Professor Kotkas has again felt that this is discrimination and unconstitutional, except if we increase the test capacity so much that everyone who wants to be able to take this test quickly, because then in a certain way everyone will have the opportunity to get to that violin concert and cinema and other cultural events — then Kotkas thinks this is not discrimination but otherwise this is. And then we have different doctors, Muukkonen and others in Eastern Finland, Professor Schein, whom I also very much appreciate, who have been quite sensitive to seeing as anti-constitutional discrimination. My position is clear, of course, when I am opposed to overly strict constitutional and fundamental rights interpretations in general. Of course, this is not discrimination prohibited by the Constitution, because it does not put people in a different position without an acceptable basis. This is a very acceptable criterion, namely the protection of human health. And when it comes to the question of whether this is discrimination, it must be put on the other balance that this is the abolition of fundamental rights restrictions for those people in the cultural sector from whom we have, on good grounds, banned business, that is to say, we have restricted their freedom of business, or we have denied cultural workers employment, on good grounds, but we have restricted their right to work, which is also a fundamental right. So my position is perfectly clear: this is not discrimination prohibited by the Constitution, even if such a card is introduced. There are good reasons for this, too, in the sense that the second balance is about abolishing fundamental rights. In other words, this burden of proof is changing a little, as it is the other way round: fundamental rights restrictions have been imposed on very good grounds and are now being dismantled. And the fact that not everyone can participate is discrimination prohibited by the Constitution? I really don't think so. I understand that the government has a certain sensitivity to go to the Constitutional Committee with such matters, but I nevertheless encourage the government to move forward quickly. I personally trust that the Constitutional Committee, quite rightly, believes that this is not discrimination prohibited by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u67	We will take the floor again, Mr Heinonen, and then we will start a little debate. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u68	Madam President! Thank you for allowing me to speak again. We were here early this morning with Mr Zyskowicz in line. I hope that this corona pass, which Mr Zyskowicz spoke very well and rightly about, is not now becoming an issue of prestige for our Prime Minister, Mr Marin, so that he cannot meet here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u73	I would now ask those Members who wish to use the reply to the debate to stand up and press the V button. — Debatin will be initiated by Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u74	Mr President! It is important that we be able to open up society with determination, control and security. As far as this regulation is concerned, I understand that Parliament must first adopt this law, then by the government. [ Arbitrators from the Group of the European People's Party]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u75	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u76	Madam President! It is good to hear from Mr Lindtman that the government and the Prime Minister are indeed considering this issue of corona passports, because that would certainly be a good way to free people from going to restaurants. For example, an increasing number of pensioners are about to be vaccinated, and they could then visit restaurants if they were open if you did not force them to be closed. To allow the opening of restaurants, as it were, but the opening hours are strictly regulated is actually quite a kick in the stomach. A local restaurant entrepreneur from Lappeenranta, who runs a popular beer bowl, a beer restaurant, sent me a message that the fact that the restaurant should only be open until 18 is like hitting a dagger up to the stomach, because all the expenses fall on the entrepreneur, but there is no chance of earning income. With this, you will kill once and for all these beers and others who are already in great trouble.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u77	I would like to remind Members of the one-minute scale in their replies. — Next, Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u78	Thank you, Mr President. The Coalition Party wants to separate people like wheat from chaff. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u79	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u85	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u87	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u89	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u91	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u93	Congressman Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u95	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u98	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u102	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u104	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u106	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u110	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u114	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u118	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u122	Congressman Eskelinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u127	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u133	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u135	Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u140	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u157	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u159	Like this. — and Mr Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u167	Congressman Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u170	Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u174	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u178	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u182	Ledamot Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u195	Ärade Herr Talman! Först vill jag beklaga för tolken att jag inte har Hunnit skicka någonting på förhand. Irade the Talman! I detta lagförslag föreslår man att minigränsen för Momsskyldighet slopas, Vilket innebär att allavar från tredjeländer blir mumspliktiga oavsett deras värde. Då Åland står utanför EU:s gemensamma skattegräns ses man i momsfrågor som tredjeland. Alla varvar som importeras till Åland, även från fasta Finland, ska det därmed betalas moms på. Detta är factum sedan EU-medlemskapet för att Åland ska kunna behålla taxfreeförsäljningen för fartygen som går mellan Finland och Sverige via Åland, Vilket tryggar trafiken och är en ödesfråga för Ålands överlevnad och att man ska kunna bo på Åland, för utan kommunikationer stanar under samhällen. Men det är innebär byråkrati och besvär för landbaserade företag som måste to come in också packaget från fasta Finland. Vissa företag drar av Momsen så att man sedan betalar morsen på tuoissa i Mariehamn, medan vesi företag tycker att Åland är en för liten marknad och inte drar av momsen, men ändå behöver ålänningar sedan betala dubbelmoms på de varar man plockar ut och har förtullat i Mariehamn. Så ox ser vardagen ut på Åland och så brode det inte göra. Den tidigare minigränsen på 22 euro innebar att exempelvis tidningar och tidskrifter som dagligen kom till Åland inte var morspliktiga varar. I och med det nya förslaget är också dessa mormspliktiga, Vilket också innebär en större administrativ börda företag på Åland. Frågan är nu, om man ställer frågan till sin specs: Måste varje Hufvudstadsbladet eller varje Helsingin Sanomat som kommer varje dag tuens in var för sig? Det är en öppen fråga. Så kan det inte bli i practiceken, och det förstår också Tullen. Här måste man hit fungerande practiceska lösningar. Lagförslaget bottnar i den ökade mängden import av lågvärdesförsändelser från bland you give Kina, men det drabbar också Åland hårt. Största delen av alla tidningar och tidskrifter på Åland kommer från fasta Finland och risken finns att dessa helt enkelt kommer att minska ifall administringen blir för ög. Detta skulle i sin tur vara väldigt problematiskt på grund av Ålands särställning och språkliga ragtigheter. Ålanningar bör självklart ha en läsa tidningar som de som är bosata i riket. Propositionen innehåller vivi förslag på förnklingar för att minska på den administrativa bördan, och finansutskottet anser aven i sitt betankande att det är viktigt att användningen av dessa följs upp. Man måste därför se till att det finns tillräckliga resorter för att följa upp hur systemet fungerar då det införts, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u202	Thank you. — Representative Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-14-ps-40.u203	Mr President! I shall now refrain from commenting on these specific issues of Åland, which we have heard with great merit in that regard. I note that it has been said here before that this is known as a tax on Chinese e-commerce products. To date, consignments of goods imported from outside the EU at a price of up to EUR 22 have been free of VAT, and that is what this government proposal is now proposing to change. In particular, Chinese online stores have so far enjoyed this tax exemption, which has been detrimental to the competitiveness of Finnish companies. Now, however, this proposal addresses this issue. Domestic traders have considered the abolition of the tax exemption to be an important issue, and at the same time the flow of e-commerce services in general will also be facilitated, as taxes will be levied more frequently directly in connection with trade rather than tax matters with Customs. At the same time, the informal economy is also being eradicated, as for more valuable purchases, the sale price may have been reported at a lower level and thus the tax liability has been circumvented. The changes in this proposal would have an estimated impact of EUR 60 million on the State’s VAT revenue at this year’s level, although there is uncertainty about the estimate of tax revenues, particularly in the case of tax fraud. However, it should be noted that the amendment increases the duty and customs declaration obligations. This will inevitably increase the workload of both Customs and the Tax Administration, and this will also have to be taken into account in the adequate resources of the authorities. Overall, the reform is positive for Finnish companies and consumers. In the future, taxes will normally be collected automatically directly in the online trade and no longer need to deal with tax matters with Customs, which will reduce the amount of bureaucracy. Hopefully, this will also increase the attractiveness of Finnish online stores.
