ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 3/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — General discussion, Chairman of the committee, Mr Sipilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u2	Mr President! The government proposal concerns the implementation of a comprehensive EU waste package. Recycling targets become significantly stricter and legislation is, overall, detailed and demanding. The key objective is to improve compliance with the waste hierarchy and increase resource-efficient use and recycling of materials in order to promote the circular economy. In the circular economy, materials are used efficiently and sustainably and stay in circulation for a long time and safely. However, the Waste Act is only one instrument for achieving horizontal objectives, and separate recycling of different fractions in itself does not yet ensure the creation of a recycling-based market, but a number of instruments are needed to promote the circular economy. It is important to enable the market for recycled materials to grow, inter alia, by developing practices on how waste classified material ceases to be waste. In order to promote the circular economy, it is important to provide a smooth flow of resources, thereby reducing the need for virgin raw material. The committee believes that instead of a heavy environmental procedure, the possibility of introducing a lighter procedure, in particular a new procedure for the end of the classification of waste, should be clarified, concentrating powers on a single authority. The concentration will contribute to the efficient use of resources and the development of expertise, as well as to consistent practice, irrespective of the location of the activity. The committee has made a proposal for a statement on this point. Mr President! Producer responsibility has stabilised as one of the regulatory instruments for waste management. In the case of waste subject to producer responsibility, responsibility for the waste has been transferred to importers and manufacturers of products. Producer responsibility includes packaging, electrical and electronic equipment, batteries, batteries and end-of-life vehicles. In Finland, producer responsibility also applies to vehicle tyres and paper. The committee welcomes the extension of producer responsibility to distance trade, as required by the directive, in the government proposal. It is also proposed to extend the scope of producer responsibility to those who sell products at international distance. From the outset, the challenge of effective producer responsibility has been free travel, i.e. not all actors contribute to the cost or organisation of waste management. The problem is a strongly growing e-commerce abroad, especially in non-EU countries. At present, producer liability legislation does not comprehensively oblige foreign distance sellers, but domestic operators also pay for the recycling and other waste management of products ordered from foreign distance stores. It is therefore important that this problem is addressed effectively. Mr President! One of the key elements of the reform of the Waste Act is the organisation of the transport of waste. In the committee's expert consultation, attention has been strongly focused on changing the current double system for the transport of waste. According to Article 37 of the Waste Act, the possibility for the municipality to decide whether transport is to be organised either by the municipality or by the owner of the property is maintained in the current transport of mixed municipal waste and sludge from precipitation and solids. However, it is proposed to remove the possibility for the municipality to transfer the organisation of the transport of waste by real estate to the holder of the property in respect of the transport of separately collected municipal waste. The municipality must therefore organise the transportation of these waste from the property in the future. The Committee notes that the impact of the various transport systems on competition and the business and innovation environment of companies has been strongly divergent in the expert consultation. The Committee on the Environment considers it essential that the changes to the transport system are based on tightening recycling targets and the associated need for better overall management, as well as the assurance that business opportunities in the sector will increase in absolute terms and thus not cease to exist for businesses. Thus, the legislative reform will increase business opportunities as a whole, but the competitiveness of small businesses will also depend on the fact that waste transport projects will in practice also be competitive in the smaller parts referred to in the Government’s proposal, so that even smaller operators will have a real chance of winning the works. Mr President! Thus, the waste law reform, with its tightening recycling targets, will create new business opportunities for different types of companies. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also stresses in its opinion that tightening recycling targets and obligations mean a significant increase in the amount of recycled material and thus increasing opportunities for companies in the waste and recycling industries. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the Committee on the Environment considers it essential that the municipalities should continue to compete in the transport sector so that small and medium-sized enterprises can also succeed. In its report, the Committee on the Environment proposes a statement — Statement No 3 — to safeguard the position of small and medium-sized enterprises. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also stresses the key role of procurement in the successful implementation of legislation. In its opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also considers that both models of the dual system can lead to an advantage or disadvantage for one of the parties involved in the system. It is therefore essential that the tendering of these works is carried out well and that attention is paid to the purchasing competence of municipal waste management operators. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection stresses the need, in cooperation with municipal operators and businesses, to develop the purchasing skills of municipalities and to improve the capacity of companies to participate in works competitions, including by developing best practice models for competitive transport and by organising training and advice for entrepreneurs and municipalities. Focusing the sector on just a few operators is not in anyone's interest, and it is therefore important to have practical policies, advice and guidance in such a way that as many companies as possible take part in the competition for the transport of waste as much as possible. This is the case in the committee's report on the proposal for a resolution No 4. Mr President! If the municipality decides to switch from the transport of waste by the property holder to the transport of waste by the municipality, the decision shall specify the date on which the waste shipment by the property holder ceases, which may not be earlier than three years after the decision is taken. In the expert consultation, a four-year transitional period was strongly proposed, referring to the previous opinion of the Constitutional Committee on the amendment of the Waste Act 2010, which stated that an appropriate transitional period could be, for example, three to four years. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, acceptable arguments have been put forward for the proposed regulation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs draws attention to the fact that the transitional periods currently proposed are not particularly long, but that the proposed regulation does not become problematic for Article 15 of the Constitution, particularly given the scope for traders to act even after the reform. Mr President! Finally, the Committee on the Environment stresses that the building of cooperation is not about regulation or changing it, but about creating effective practices and a culture of cooperation. In the future, waste management and recycling will be a more significant part of the fundamental drive for a linear economy towards a circular economy. The emergence of a good culture of cooperation requires a forward-looking approach and positive thinking about recycling, which identifies the potential for all actors. Mr President! The report contains four statements and two objections. The objections raised rightly draw attention to the partial dismantling of the dual system and the short transition period.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u3	Let us take a few speeches here and then we can go to the debate. — Mr Purra, the next speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u4	Madam President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee for presenting this report. Your statements also sound very good, but from that very point of view it is very amazing that this bill will be adopted as it is, because it is the dismantling of this dual system that will have very negative effects on the business field, on competition and on employment. It is not even an environmentally necessary change, it may even be the opposite. As several experts have explained in the committees, it may also reduce the development of environmentally bold transport and handling innovations. In any case, this is a terrible step backwards towards the monopolies of the municipalities. There is absolutely nothing to defend such a proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u5	Congressman Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u6	Mr President! Like my group, I cannot accept this proposal because, if it were to happen, it would penalise entrepreneurs and put the sector in an unequal position. The Marin government wants to give up the dual system, even though, on the basis of expert consultations, this is opposed by entrepreneurs, drivers and representatives of homeowners and real estate dwellers. This is totally at odds with the promises made by the Government Programme, for example on how to commit to knowledge-based policy and decision-making. It should be borne in mind that even the partial dismantling of the dual system would have significant negative effects on businesses, which have not even been properly explained in the proposal. In addition, the government proposal ignores the essential benefits of the current system. The dual system must therefore be maintained and partial abolition is not to be welcomed. Finally, like the opinion of the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Finns condemn the excessively short transitional periods imposed by the government, since the proposed timetable would be very challenging to make the necessary investments.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u7	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u8	Mr President! Finland is a pioneer in the circular economy in many ways. However, we are not all model students, but we can do more. The collection of paper or cans is well known to Finns for recycling, but there is still much room for improvement in the recycling of plastics, for example. President! There are few Finns and our share of natural resource consumption is small. However, per capita consumption is high. However, the future does not have to appear frightening, but we can also view it as a challenge that can be solved. The circular economy provides not only a solution to over-consumption but also opportunities for Finnish companies and innovations. Recycling accounts for about 40 per cent of municipal waste treatment in Finland. It is possible to improve this clearly by, among other things, more precise sorting and separate collection of waste. The Government aims to increase the share of recycling to 65% by 2035. That's a good goal. President! In the Government's proposal on the transport of waste to be collected separately, the transfer of waste to the centralised transport of waste by the municipality is carried out in a competitive manner. This will facilitate access to information on municipal waste streams and improve their monitoring and control. The design of waste management logistics will be easier and municipalities can make better use of good practices such as multi-box, community and block collections. This is, of course, a major change and, as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy also points out, the situation must be closely monitored. The proposal is complex at legislative level, but it is clear from the point of view of the property owner. The municipality organises the transport of all waste arising from separate housing from the property. The current dual system, in which the customer has been able to choose the partial dismantling of the waste shipment itself, has been concerned about the role of small and medium-sized transport companies. This has been a real and deserved concern.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u13	Like this. — And now we are going to start the debate, and I would ask those Members who wish to make a reply, to stand up and use the V button to ask for the floor. — Congressman Orpo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u14	Mr President! The coalition defends the present dual system. We believe in a market economy, and we want property owners to be allowed to choose their own waste transport company from where the services are procured. This is a sad moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u17	Congressman Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u18	Madam President! To begin with, I would like to point out that the objective of this proposal is very clear: to speed up the circular economy and the separate collection of waste. And I wonder if we in this Chamber would not all agree that these are objectives worth working hard and hard for. As far as this dual transport system, which has caused much debate, is concerned, it must be remembered that this dual transport system is still in place with regard to its mixed waste and sludge, because some of the information on this has been somewhat different during this process. And then, if we look at this dual transport system in general, then I dare also say out loud at this stage of the debate that I have been very much concerned during this debate about how this debate has been so engrossed in this dual transport system, because I claim that everyone in this Chamber also understands that this is a very small matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u19	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u20	Madam President! Indeed, I must agree with Mr Orpo's comments on how this can be the centre of gravity. I mean, has the centre really become a ‘Finnish Democratic Centre’ or something? The term ‘social’is used This dismantling of the dual system will not promote recycling, not in any way. This will not increase transport in any way. This will not even reduce emissions, because this mixed waste remains here. This is completely absurd, because transport companies have been making this market for decades. They have paid the marketing company to get their own business to the point where it is, and then the Finnish Government — to which the centre belongs — will come and transfer it to society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u21	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u22	Mr President! This law promotes the circular economy, and when the opposition criticises the fact that small entrepreneurs are not taken into account, I hope that the opposition will look into this law and specifically into Article 36, which states that, in the case of the transport of waste organised by the municipality, the duration of the transport of waste must be defined in the invitation to tender, both the duration of the transport services and the timing of the purchases, so that companies of all sizes have the opportunity to participate in the tenders and that the transport contracts must be competitively divided into lots, so that more than one undertaking can be chosen as a service provider. I hope that the opposition will also look into this government bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u23	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u24	Madam President! This is the representative. Taimela wondered if not all have a common view that this law is necessary. This is where the aims of the legislation are to be supported, certainly. Of course, I have wondered whether this recycling aspect will come to light enough, that this is really a lot of focus on this waste collection. However, as several colleagues have pointed out here, this phase-out of the dual system means a deterioration in the situation of these regional SMEs, and I think that the chairman of the committee here was quite right to provoke these objections, which have drawn attention to this issue and also to this short transition period. I understand that this transitional pressure will then come from the EU side on the implementation of the directive and the like, but I would have liked to have heard the arguments as to whether this would not have been possible for a further transitional period in order to achieve this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u25	Congressman Sirén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u26	Mr President! Indeed, the objectives of the Waste Act are good, and I am sure we all agree with them, but this government proposal contains major flaws, which have also been taken into account thoroughly, rightly, in the expert hearings. In particular, this retention of the dual system and longer transition periods have been the key changes that have emerged during the proceedings. Mr Taimela here mentioned that this dual system is only a small part of this proposal, but from the point of view of their entrepreneurs it is a huge issue, and they want to express their concerns here. The Coalition Party believes in the market, free competition, which is also the best option for customers in most cases, and therefore
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u27	Congressman Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u28	Mr President! The preparation of this legislative reform has been thorough and there have been extensive consultations. As the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and several representatives have said here, we will certainly all share these key objectives of the reform: raising the recycling rate and boosting the circular economy. The fact that we have efficient waste management and that recycling works effectively requires better management of the whole and a clear and effective division of responsibilities, and that is what this centralisation of transport organisation in the municipalities is based on. This solution seeks precisely to ensure that the municipalities have overall responsibility for the transport and treatment of waste, but that companies continue to manage these shipments, and with careful competition we ensure that local entrepreneurs are also able to cope. This must be in the interests of everyone, including municipal waste management companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u29	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u30	Mr President! Just as has been said here, it would certainly not have wanted this dual system to be dismantled, that is to say, it would have meant that local businesses would be less able to operate and people would be less able to work. I cannot understand how this government can be such an anti-entrepreneurship government. This is entirely ideological, and I think it is completely beyond reason. Furthermore, we also proposed extending the transitional periods, and that was also the statement by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that this should be done. There's got to be a good explanation for this. This is where Mr Torniainen said that we are not familiar with this. Yes, for example, I myself have been dealing with this issue for two years, since we began to wonder that this is what we are going to do. For some reason, I know exactly what is going on here: this is taking away the conditions for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u31	Congressman Sipilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u32	Mr President! As has been said many times here, the members of the committee are united in the fact that the objective of this law is good and that increasing the recycling rate from 40% to 60% also brings new business opportunities. I am not really afraid that this activity will become municipalised, but rather fear that large players will take over a larger sector when they are being put on the market. When the dual system is abandoned, I believe that this aspect of the committee's report is well taken into account, as well as it can be taken away from the dual system. In my opinion, this operation of the law in this respect is measured in the way in which the recycling rate is increasing in practice — it must be monitored — and how these small waste transport companies will actually cope with this competition, which will then involve larger operators.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u33	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Representative I think the trout felt that dismantling the dual system was a small thing in itself. I do not think it is a small thing that this causes bankruptcies for Finnish companies. If the Social Democrats think so, it is quite overwhelming. The committee consulted a number of experts — several experts — who considered this dismantling of the dual system to be highly questionable. Those statements were completely ignored, as we can now see from the motion. Representative Torniainen asked if we were familiar with this bill. As the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I can say that we have taken a deep look at this proposal. And, as the chairman of the committee said in his presentation, there is every reason to object. This, too, indicates that there is a familiarity. Well, a quick question: This will cause the future to now be visited in some places by two cars in the yard. One picks up mixed waste, the other picks up that little bio-waste bag.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u37	Congressman Kivela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u38	Madam President! Firstly, I personally welcome the fact that this law is now being finalised. It is very good and important that the recycling target is tightened up and that it will continue to be increased. I personally welcome the fact that, in principle, this dual transport system will be abolished, even though mixed waste is now covered not only by sludges but also by this dual system, if the municipality so decides and if the conditions are met. I agree that the circular economy is more than just waste collection, but I personally think, unlike the Finns of Peru, that yes with this law we are going in the right direction and not in the wrong direction. But, of course, much still needs to be done elsewhere in order to achieve a truly circular economy. When this law is passed, I see that both the environment and the climate are the benefits of improving recycling, residents of municipalities
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u39	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u40	Madam President! One major problem with this proposal is that the protection of consumers who pay for contract freedom, property and waste management is being undermined. When the transport of waste began to be socialized about ten years ago, the operations of the transport companies were retrospectively assessed against the provisions of the new Waste Act. That was so rude. Contractual relations were addressed in a very short transitional period and caused damage and loss to small businesses. And then, as was feared, the sector mainly focuses on foreign giants, and now the same mistake is being repeated. As far as freedom of contract is concerned, the protection of property is, therefore, going in a worse direction. And it has been constantly suggested to the public that the car racing industry will be reduced and the costs will be reduced. Quite the opposite is happening here. In fact, the burden on citizens is rising and the rally is only getting worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u41	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u42	Madam President! This is the solution expected of the left-wing government, but do you know what you are doing? The current system, the dual system, is being dismantled, and this change is very negative for local companies. The effects are even greater than those on employment that you have previously decided to do. The two-year transitional period will destroy these small local companies, cost them EUR 70 million. And I would ask why you, Mr Sipilä, ended up moving for two years when a moment earlier municipal waste companies were given a 13-year transitional period. This is about property protection. With the support of the centre, you, the left-wing government, are pushing us into the role of passive adaptor when we need to be dynamic.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u43	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u44	Mr President! In its report, the Committee on the Environment requires the government to support the development of procurement skills and the effective sharing of best practices. It is important to provide a systematic assessment of the functioning of the law. It is precisely how the recycling rate of municipal waste develops, how waste transport prices develop, how the competitive position of small and medium-sized enterprises develops. It is particularly important to safeguard the competitive position of small and medium-sized enterprises, which is an essential condition for the adoption of this law. Mr President! The preservation of the dual system of mixed waste and sludge is very important. It contributes to supporting small businesses and jobs in sparsely populated areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u45	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u46	Madam President! Like the people of the United States and the Finns, the Christian Democrats would like to maintain the current double transport system and would like to be given an extension. I wonder at all about this debate when I understand that, in line with the line agreed by the chairmen of the government parties, the shipment of waste by the property holder was supposed to remain in the Waste Act for the transport of all waste items, i.e. biowaste and packaging waste. Have I misunderstood your government program entry? But this is what I hear you've made an agreement there. This is an ideological battle that has been going on for a long time. Already, in the second half of the 21st century, when I was in the business association, there was a hard struggle for this, so that I could see no other pursuit of this than ideological objectives. Increasing waste recycling is a good objective,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u47	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I am listening to this debate rather shocked at the damage that is being done to SMEs. No one will be opposed to good objectives, but the means must be those that work and do not cause bankruptcy and increase unemployment. Government employment measures have been weak in the past. I now appeal to the centre to look at these proposals and make sure that this socialist thinking does not destroy our SMEs. We will soon have no businesses or jobs, and we will not know what will happen to our welfare society in this socialist passion. I am very concerned, as are the Finns, that if expenses rise here, the price of living increases. We are already very tight on the price of living and moving. Let's be genuinely interested in every person's everyday life to have enough of that money.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u49	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u50	Thank you, Madam President. We have already heard about this objective and it is easy to agree with it, but I share that concern, especially for SMEs. However, I think it is good, as has been emphasised in this report, that the government is monitoring the development of these small and medium-sized enterprises in this waste transport and that it is considered that it is not only the major players who are doing well here. I think it is also appropriate to say, after the municipal elections, that it is now a great responsibility for the municipalities to carry this out in such a way that small and medium-sized enterprises are able to compete genuinely so that the elected decision-makers are able to implement the policy with which they have been elected. I myself intend to take care of the mandate that I myself have received, that we will also be able to give small and medium-sized enterprises the opportunity to operate in the transport of waste.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u51	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u52	Mr President! Unfortunately, the proposal which has now become the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is turning waste entrepreneurs into municipal workers. Up until now, they have developed their own operations so that they can serve their customers, and in the future they will compete as to who best organises the transports. And with regard to the fact that housing companies are still allowed to compete for mixed waste, the message of waste entrepreneurs, at least for me, has been, for example, from my own municipality of residence. Clearly, the fact that it makes no sense because there is so little mixed waste and the aim is to reduce it in the future. No one is in favour of simply picking up mixed waste, but of course it is worth taking action in larger batches. It's a very special decision, though. We must remember that this is a purely domestic act: the directive does not take a position on the way in which the shipment of waste is organised. I am surprised that the centre has not heard the voices of the entrepreneurs from which this comes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u53	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u54	Mr President! This emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises is, of course, a good thing and interference in procurement regulation and other matters and the importance of this issue, but, as you know yourself, these procurement guidelines and dialogues have been taking place for years without any significant progress being made. I am sure that everyone here is familiar with cases in their own territory where such a situation has only resulted in large concentrations, and in very many regions the consequences are very bad. Here too, as described above, it is very likely that some foreign major company, perhaps from southern Europe, will win those competitions. There's not gonna be any kind of chopping going to help. This is the first step. Then the next step — and we already have examples of this in Europe — is to take drivers from abroad, even from Lithuania and Latvia. I don't understand the obsession with the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u55	The floor will be taken to this debate from Mr Sankelo and Mr Sipilä and then we will go to the list of speakers. — Congressman Sankelo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u56	Mr President! Yes, when the government makes this decision, it is wrong. I was contacted yesterday by an overdrive transport entrepreneur — contact details if necessary. He called me yesterday and asked me to resist this performance in spirit and blood. He's started the company a couple of years ago. The firm has seven employees, some of them a little like this as hard to employ. Now the result is that the equipment will be out of date. This company will cease its activities. Representatives of the government parties can tell here when they praise this bill, greetings to these seven employees who are left out of work because of this motion. This will be very difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises, and its impact will be:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u57	Congressman Sipilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u58	Mr President! I very much understand the criticism that has been expressed in this Chamber, precisely in relation to this dismantling of the dual system. But for those entrepreneurs, it would be my message not to drop down and dismiss workers, but to get ready now, within the transitional period, for a new situation in which the size of the business is increasing, and for what means are there to compete against the larger players, for example by joining with a few other small companies. And that is precisely what the committee's report's statements focus on: in 2025 we need to make an in-depth analysis of how these SMEs have managed to do this and how price developments have developed since this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u59	We shall now proceed to the list of — Mr Kivelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u60	Madam President! A few comments on this proposal and its consideration in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. First of all, this law is largely based on the implementation of EU legislation, but also on the Government Programme, in which we have agreed that waste recycling will be increased and Finland's role as a pioneer in the circular economy will be strengthened, and I am, of course, very pleased with these objectives. Well, now we have talked a lot about tightening the recycling target, which is a good thing, and we have talked about this phasing out of the double transport system, which I myself think could have been abandoned in the case of mixed waste. But a few more remarks. I think it is a good thing that this producer responsibility is now being extended, i.e. packaging producers and municipalities must now agree to cooperate in the separate collection of packaging waste on residential properties and on the compensation paid by producers to municipalities for separate collection and transport for waste management organised by producers. Today, packaging producers must bear at least 80% of the total cost of packaging waste management. It is also good that the new rules now seek to involve operators in international distance trading in producer responsibility schemes. This has also been in line with the objectives of our group. As a single point, I would like to point out that the good thing is to collect textiles and to bring it forward. Textile waste must therefore be arranged two years before the deadline laid down in the Directive, i.e. from the beginning of 2023. We on the left are pleased that the recycling rate is being raised, first and foremost, and we see that this is important for the creation of a more comprehensive circular economy. So what is essential is that we get the recycling rate up now – just as we heard here, unfortunately, we are still at the EU average. At the same time, it is true that this obligation to recycle alone does not yet create a comprehensive circular economy, which is our objective, and we have also called for the need to create demand for these raw materials for reuse or, for example, the obligation for producers to use recycled material, for example for plastics. What has not been said much here, but I think it is very important to raise the issue yet, is the hierarchy of waste and the starting point that priority is to prevent waste from being produced. It is the most efficient use of resources and the most important resource wisdom that waste is not even generated. Finally, I would like to say:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u61	Congressman Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u62	Madam President! As has been said here, the key objective of this reform of the Waste Act is to boost the circular economy and facilitate the recycling of households. By reducing the amount of waste and reducing the recycling rate, we are curbing the over-consumption of natural resources, which is the root cause of climate change and the loss of nature. This government proposal aims to increase the recycling rate of municipal waste from the current, long-term presence of good 40% to 65% by 2035. The fact that this has been in place for a long time shows that change is needed. With stricter recycling obligations, more than 50 per cent of Finns will be covered by separate collection of glass, paperboard, metal and plastic and 65 per cent by separate collection of biowaste. Madam President! The reform of the Waste Act is only one instrument for achieving ambitious circular economy objectives. The priority is to reduce the amount of waste generated by improving the re-use of goods and materials. A functioning circular economy requires a functioning market for recycled materials. They are not just generated by the addition of separate collections. A number of instruments are therefore needed to promote the circular economy. In order to prevent the generation of waste, regulation of product characteristics is essential. Products must be resource-efficient, life-cycle and service life-cycle sustainable and repairable, easily reused and recyclable as waste. In addition to ecological product design, effective steering measures include mixing obligations and the development of waste taxation. For example, the obligation to mix plastic bottles has already been adopted in the SUP Directive, which requires PET bottles to contain at least 25% recycled material in 25 years and all plastic bottles to 30% in 2030. We need to be able to move in this direction. With regard to waste taxation, we will hopefully be able to move forward already in the autumn budget debate. Finland’s recent circular economy promotion programme and the EU circular economy action plan provide a good basis for promoting the circular economy. This is also what the reform of the Waste Act and the development of waste management are all about. Mr President! The preparation of this legislative reform has indeed been thorough and there have been extensive consultations. Efficient waste management and recycling require better management of the whole and a clear and effective division of responsibilities. It is important that this system is also clear to the user, i.e. residents and property owners. On the basis of careful preparation, it has been decided that the responsibility for organising the transport of waste will be transferred to municipalities, with the exception of mixed waste and sludge. A compromise was found here during the preparation. Its usefulness will then remain to be seen in the future, but the present double transport system will be abandoned and that will be a major change. Understandably, that is a cause for concern, and this debate has already been well-deserved today. So how do we ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to compete in competitions organised by municipalities in the future? As has been said here, there is concern that this law, with its tightening waste recycling targets, will create new business opportunities for waste companies, and this potential we must be able to exploit in good cooperation with business partners. There have also been criticisms of transition periods and their shortness. There is good justification for these transitional periods. Efforts have been made to link the change in the transport system as closely as possible with separate collection obligations and the entry into force of producer responsibility. At the same time, efforts are being made to allow the competitive tendering of transport to be phased out, which is in everyone's interest. If the transitional periods were to be extended, it would interfere with the implementation of producer responsibility, as it would be difficult or impossible to ensure that the compensation paid by the producer in the case of transport to the property holder. Madam President! I understand the concerns of entrepreneurs, and that is why the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection paid particular attention to this. It is essential for municipalities to compete so that small and medium-sized enterprises can also succeed. This procurement competence of municipalities is absolutely essential, and that is why the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection stresses in the report that both the procurement competence of municipalities and the capacity of companies to participate in works competitions must be improved in cooperation with municipal operators and businesses. The survival of small local companies is in everyone's best interests. Madam President! This reform of the Waste Act has been under way for years and has caused a wide range of administrative and legal burdens. With this government proposal, the situation will finally be clarified and waste management will be developed in order to achieve ambitious circular economy objectives. I believe and think that this is in the interests of the whole waste management field and also of companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u63	Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u64	Madam President! The SDP is in favour of the revision of the Waste Act as it increases recycling, promotes the circular economy and increases the responsibility of municipalities to collect waste, which according to the studies is effective from both a cost and recycling perspective. The proposal also supports the Government Programme of Sanna Marin’s Government on ‘carbon-neutral and biodiversity-protecting Finland’. The Government Programme aims to increase waste recycling and thus strengthen Finland's role as a pioneer in the circular economy. Throughout the long preparatory process, the SDP has stressed that the impact on businesses must be assessed and, where necessary, mitigated. However, the overall impact on companies has been estimated to be small compared to the market growth resulting from the increase in separate collection. The impact varies from region to region, and some transport companies may have less business opportunities. In addition, it is important that the new provisions proposed in the proposal, which are in part stricter than the procurement law, reinforce the obligation of the municipality to ensure that the transport contracts are properly carried out. The recycling of municipal waste must be gradually increased to 65 % by 2035. The recycling targets for packaging waste in Finland are mostly relatively easy to achieve, but the challenges are related to plastic and wood packaging waste. In order to achieve these objectives, a number of new instruments are proposed, the most important of which are the addition of separate collection of waste and the prohibition of incineration or landfilling of waste collected separately for re-use or recycling. There was also a lot of talk about households here in the debate, but I would like to talk a little about industry myself. In the opinions, the implementation of the by-product and end of waste procedures highlighted by the steelworks should be streamlined and speeded up. Applying for and changing an environmental permit is a slow process. Industry often comes with by-products that can still be used further, but authorisation procedures are difficult. The role of the public sector in implementing the circular economy is also essential for industry's secondary materials, and this needs to be addressed. In order to prevent all possible losses, decision-making must be predictable, as predictability will help industry and will also safeguard investment. It is possible and necessary to support the emergence and maintenance of a functioning circular economy market by means of legislative measures. Therefore, industrial representation should also be included in the next working group on the functioning of the by-product and end of waste regulation. For example, Ovako is the source of a lot of slag as a by-product of steel production. Imatra has tried, among other things, the use of slag as a road floor, when it has not been necessary to drive gravel from a distance, but the material has been available at a close distance. The slag has proved to be an excellent basis, but it still needs a special licence, which takes a great deal of time, and in the worst case scenario there is no time to wait for the works. Well, then, for these acquisitions. Of course, municipalities have the opportunity to influence procurement and competition themselves. For example, waste management in South Karelia from my region has already moved entirely to municipal waste management. There have been no bankruptcies, workers have been employed in new companies on collective bargaining wages, and consumer prices in the transport of waste and waste management have fallen. On the other hand, I wonder very much about the debate that has taken place here today, that the coalition seems to be a non-party for which no change is acceptable, but the line is always no. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u65	Congressman Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u66	Madam President! The proposed waste law, which has been addressed, is at last at the point where, after a wide-ranging committee reading, we got it here for the first reading in the Chamber. The work of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which is the work of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, was very quickly to be seen as a contradiction in the response to the opinion and, of course, it is part of democracy that this contradiction is also reflected in the Chamber work here. Preparation has been a long process, so it started in the last parliamentary term with the work of the so-called waste law group. As has already been heard in this Chamber, most duubies were created in connection with the dual transport system and the transitional periods of the law. I feel that the committee's report has taken into account quite comprehensively the different weights of voice and, in particular, the concerns about the role of SMEs and these municipal competitions. The aim of the proposal is quite clear: to speed up the circular economy and separate collection of waste. In its report, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection therefore sees the government's proposal as one of the key means of promoting a sustainable circular economy. In 2025, 55 per cent of municipal waste must be recycled in Finland, and in 2035 that figure is already 65 per cent. Those set targets require much more efficient sorting because we must remember that the recycling rate in recent years is only slightly above 40%. In the case of packaging waste, recycling targets will gradually tighten from the current 55% to 70% by 2030 and, of course, bio-waste recycling will also need to be significantly increased. What happens, then, with regard to this transport system that has caused much debate? As has already been said here, this so-called double transport system will indeed survive in the case of mixed waste and sludge. I would also like to reiterate what has already been said in the debatation that I have actually been thinking about myself in the course of this law, which has been multi-generational and long, that the debate has been big on this issue because, in the name of the truth, I still say that this transport issue is a small part of this package of legislation and its objectives. Another matter of particular concern is these transitional periods. The transitional periods contained in the law are justified by the rapid introduction of separate collections, which are binding on the Member States... [Speaker's microphone shuts down ] Mr President! The implementation of the spirit of the law requires good cooperation between the various actors involved. It also requires information and commitment. Purchasing skills are absolutely essential if we are to succeed in the implementation of this law, as well as each one of us in our everyday lives, because the sorting skills and activity of the residents are also extremely important. Few people think that food production and consumption, among other things, have such a significant environmental impact. About a third of all the environmental load caused by consumption is produced from food, and a significant amount of edible food is not utilised. To conclude, the statements made by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will hopefully dispel the suspicion of the law in this Chamber on the ground. I do not deny that there is suspicion there too, but that is why, in the committee's report, those statements are also there. The fact that this is a success requires a culture of cooperation rather than a tear-down, requires a forward-looking approach, and the most positive thinking about recycling, because I believe it also guarantees the best potential for all players, including the business sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u67	Thank you. — And Mr Talvitie, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u68	Mr President! Indeed, we are dealing with the reform of the Waste Act, and this government proposal therefore proposes to amend the Waste Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Chemicals Act and the Criminal Code. Some of the proposed changes are necessary when the EU waste package and other regulations are adopted, but some are due to our national needs. The proposal also implements the product bans and labelling requirements contained in the Directive on the reduction of the environmental impact of certain plastic products. The laws have common objectives. The means of achieving these objectives in this decade, in some ways different from the parliamentary group and between the Government and the opposition. At first, however, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has been waiting for this for almost the whole of this period, in the early part of the year we started to deal with it and, in the final part of the year, so to speak, the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has changed and Mr Sipilä took up the task last Wednesday. For my part, Mr Sipilä, thank you for your constructive approach to the Presidency. When it was recognised in committee that these transitional provisions, the transitional periods and this dual municipal system were precisely those challenging tasks, the President-in-Office will hopefully allow me to say that it was genuinely, in fact, also by the Presidency which sought a unified view if this could be achieved, and for that I would like to thank him very much. It is a good, cooperative and constructive policy that is needed, particularly on the side of environmental legislation. The bill should therefore contribute to an increase in the recycling rate, but we must also remember that without sorting the birthplace there can be no recycling or targets for our circular economy. If there is no sorting at the place of birth — no matter where the waste is generated, whether it is in industry, household or similar — it is no matter what kind of transport systems we make or what other objectives we pursue. The circular economy cannot come about, nor can it be recycled. Secondly, as Vice-President of the Administrative Committee, I would certainly have liked, and the Group of the European People's Party would have liked, that the decision-making power of the municipalities should not be reduced in matters relating to waste management, but that the municipality should have the possibility to continue to choose between the municipal system and the property-holder system. That would be the legislation that makes it possible, to which Mr Taimela referred very well in his own speech. It would be possible for regions and municipalities to retain decision-making powers. Municipalities and regions would be able to see for themselves whether they wanted to have a municipal transport system or a real estate system, and some regions have also had the opportunity side by side for both. Well, now that we are moving forward with this government proposal, the group also drew attention to the fact that these transition periods are too short. In 2010, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has therefore said that transitional periods should be between 3 and 4 years and that there are no specific obligations with regard to the order of regulations, but rather texts, reprimands that even longer transitional periods should be put into practice. Secondly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also drew attention to the fact that, when the explanatory statement states that this would only apply to about a hundred companies, from the point of view of the Constitution, the fact that a change would affect only a few companies, tens of companies or thousands of companies cannot be a determining factor in our legislation. So even if it affects only a hundred companies, it cannot have a kind of perspective that somehow it will be reduced. Well, then, Mr President, this purchasing competence of municipalities is indeed, as has been pointed out in many speeches, the very essence of the matter, so that SMEs, micro-enterprises, businesses of all sizes, in this legislation, are able to take part in competitive tendering and, as a result, businesses and jobs can remain in the regions. Very much depends on the purchasing competence of municipalities and the size of the region, how companies will then be able to carry this out. Mr President! Finally, the group saw that the requirements for separate collection of packaging should have been extended to larger agglomerations, i.e. more than 10,000 inhabitants, rather than all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u69	Thank you. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u70	Mr President! Indeed, it is extremely good for you that recycling is being increased, and this bill is in large part a good one. There is no point in trying to argue that there is a resistance to recycling here. In fact, there has been no mention here of anything other than a double system or even a human transition period for the dual system. That's what we're talking about here. There's no point in trying to move it away from the focus right now. As I said before, these companies have actually created this market. With their own money they have advertised all over the magazines, along different channels, radio advertisements or the like, and now all the work is taken away just by clicking on fingers. The double system itself, the dismantling of its transport system in no way increases the workload of any kind. Congressman Sipilä said there's more work to be done. There won't be any more work. No, he won't. The amount of drive stays the same, the amount of waste stays the same. The driving volumes remain the same, or if even a little more flexible, they will decrease. There may not even be more work here, even on the recycling side, because people are already sorting them out at home. There will be fewer jobs there for sorting out waste companies. More work on this case will only be done when we come up with innovative solutions, for example, that plastic does not go into combustion. But there will be no more jobs in the whole sector except for those who will start watching these cones, when a terrible paperwork war is started again when everything has to be reported on how much has gone. This adds more work to the bureaucrats, not to anything else. Now some municipalities are even forced to do this. They would not even want to enter this system, and they will be forced to do so. This is like an unimaginable job all in all, and the transition period is also extremely small. As Mr Heinonen already pointed out earlier, 13 years were allowed to adjust the responsibilities of the subscriber to the municipalities. We are now allowing companies between 2 and 3 years to adapt millions of investments. It is also in the committee's statements that it is essential to improve procurement skills. Each one of us in his own municipality must have fought and fought because of the things that had been done to keep the acquisitions there in the territory of his own municipality. We've been trying to figure it all out. [The President knocks ] I'm gonna have to move there. I forgot this is only three minutes from here. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Mr President! I really forgot that three minutes had time to talk about that place. Indeed, we all know how we have tried to compete there in the local government sector. They are nothing but woolly speeches that we can improve our purchasing skills. In the debates in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and in every debate, I have called for you to give us one specific example, which we can use to ensure that they go to small and medium-sized enterprises. One thing has come up throughout the debate, and that too was that we are using our bilingualism, which is probably impossible to put into practice. Who will advise those municipalities in that purchasing competence? Who advises them? What mentality? Let me be quite frank: they order it from a consultant, they drink coffee and they eat hairdressers, they talk about woolly talk and then they say that this job is done, those municipalities didn't just take care of that job or something like that. When there's no way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u71	Thank you. — and Mr Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u72	Mr President! The objectives of the reform of the Waste Act are important, as has been said on many occasions here, including this increase in the recycling target. And, of course, it should be noted that the collection of waste, which is the focus of this bill, does not yet have the comprehensive recycling of waste, requires much more than that. Of course, it would be essential for us to encourage as little waste as possible and then, if it were to be produced, it would also be very reusable. Indeed, the speeches here have focused on this phase-out of the dual system and on this transitional period. Of course, it is good to note that at the moment about half of the municipalities in Finland are using this waste shipment organised by the property manager. In that sense, I think that the committee has made the right observations when it is aware of the risks that this sector's concentration may involve, and the KD would have seen the point of continuing this dual system. This, too, has been mentioned in many speeches as to how this purchasing competence of municipalities works. The KD has, on many occasions, raised the need for a comprehensive procurement strategy in the municipalities, most recently during this election struggle. In other words, if you want to support SMEs in your region, you really need to write it down as the goal of the entire procurement strategy, so that in all procurements you want to promote and implement it. Many times then there is this idea that one big buyer would bring some kind of this kind of magnitude of economics with him. After all, when there are few bidders and their suppliers on the market, unfortunately, prices may actually rise. In that sense, it would certainly be desirable for us to have a very close monitoring of this paragraph and ensure that prices do not go up for us and that, on the other hand, the situation of SMEs in the region is maintained. I have already asked about this transitional period a little earlier, and I will continue to repeat this question to the members of the committee — we in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy unfortunately have no representation in the Committee on the Environment. It has been pointed out that this adjustment period is very short. And a company that may have to make new acquisitions or put the former to death could certainly have had a longer transition period. But is there someone in the background who is in a hurry as a result of the directive? Perhaps lastly, I would draw attention to this guidance and advice on recycling. Yes, it is extremely important to actually do that recycling. The recycling rate will be reduced if this recycling is perceived to be cumbersome or confusing. Such harmonised recycling labelling and advice, all of them, still needs to be developed. Multimaterial products that are quite much used in packaging today produce enormous headaches for people, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u73	Congressman Field Fabric, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u74	Mr President! In the Government's proposal for a law on the amendment of the Waste Act and certain related laws to the Parliament, it is proposed that the present double system be partially abolished. The possibility for the municipality to transfer the organisation of the transport of waste to the property holder would be removed in respect of the transport of separate municipal municipal waste, i.e. biowaste, small metal waste, fibre, glass, metal and plastic packaging waste and other possible separate collection types. Thus, in future, the municipality should organise the transportation of these waste from the real estate. Well, this is where we run into the first practical absurdity. So there will be cases in the future where two cars go in the yard at the same time: one picks up mixed waste and the other, for example. that little bag of bio-waste. What have we been thinking? This problem was also raised in the committee's expert hearings, but, as so many of the problems raised in the expert hearings, it was ignored coldly. The motion is on the table and, in my opinion, it is partly absurd. There's a lot of good in it. In principle, the Finns of Peru consider it a good starting point to try to do better, but we cannot accept ignoring the statements made by professionals in this field. If we make legislation contrary to professional instructions and wishes from experience, it will certainly become a wolf and a second, and now it will be again. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats cannot accept a number of aspects of the proposal, because we believe that it penalises the entrepreneurial sector in this sector quite severely. Well, we should also remember that the dismantling of the dual system, even in part, has significant negative effects on businesses, which, of course, as the government tends to do, have not been properly investigated. This is very, very worrying. The proposed amendment interferes with the autonomy of the municipality and also increases municipal functions in municipalities that have not wished to take an operational role in transport. This is also worrying. The proposal also undermines the citizens' freedom of choice, since the system is only changing in a way that favours municipalities. Many domestic entrepreneurs will be bankrupted by the presentation. Let me ask you this: are you socializing this country? Your policy is very shortsighted again. Mr President! The benefits of the current system are virtually completely ignored in the government proposal. Many municipalities regard the double system, the transport provided by the property holder, as the most suitable transport system for their territory. It is considered to promote business activity, employment, freedom of choice for residents in the region. In these areas, residents are used to ordering the transport service themselves, thus creating a fairly stable customer base for transport companies. It should be noted that tampering with the dual system is not necessary from an environmental point of view, but that recycling targets can also be achieved within the framework of the current transport model. According to experts consulted by the committee, the transfer of waste recycling activities to the municipality may in fact undermine the reuse and recovery of waste. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes that even partial abolition of the dual system is counterproductive and therefore unacceptable. Mr President! Finally, the Finns of Peru are disapproving the excessive political direction and coercion in the government’s proposal. It should be noted that the Waste Directive or other EU legislation does not provide for any way of organising the transport of waste in the Member States. The abolition of the current double system for separate municipal waste collection and the transfer to municipal waste transport is therefore a purely national solution based on government policy and ideology. That is what we Finns, the committee, are opposed to. Ideology, which has been driven and apparently driven down Finnish companies in the spirit of the climate humpa, is nowhere sensible or desirable for this country. Legislative proposals should be viewed and prepared in such a way that they do not harm the business sector, so that they do not harm the people who bring its wealth to this country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u75	Thank you. — Representative Torniainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u76	Mr President! This Waste Act and the regulations adopted pursuant to it lay down new targets and obligations for waste recycling and recycling. It is very good that, even in this Chamber, there is a great deal of consensus and support for this objective. The new recycling targets, which increase waste recycling, are important in the Waste Act and also provide a basis for the development of a recycling-based market. In fact, one might ask whether reform must always be opposed or whether it can also be an opportunity for the future. In my view, it is possible to look positively at this issue in such a way that the waste law reform, with its tightening recycling targets, will also create new business opportunities for different types of companies in the future. Let us take this as an opportunity, and I hope that companies will also take this into account. Of course, these transitional provisions, the transitional periods, have caused a lot of debate, as has been noted here, and that is a big deal. Let us see how we can move forward, but I personally hope that companies will start preparing for this in good time as soon as this law comes into force. Mr President! It is a good thing, as the committee notes, that the draft law has been amended since the consultation by maintaining in the final government proposal the double system of transport, in addition to sludge, for the transport of mixed municipal waste — in other words, the dual system is still going to last — and by increasing the regulatory framework for the tendering of municipal waste transport, in part by way of derogation from the general procurement legislation. So, after the consultation, we have changed the original proposal of the government, in my opinion, in a much better direction and also in a more business-friendly direction. And, yes, I have to say that the Centre's committee took the side of local entrepreneurs in drafting the law, and it is very good that the conditions are sufficiently strong to enable the municipal competitions to offer and also carry out works in such companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u77	Thank you. — Representative Simula, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u78	Mr President! Indeed, with this proposal, the government wants to abolish a functioning double system for the transport of waste. In other words, the organisation of the transport of waste would be on the shoulders of the municipalities, since today the owner of the property has also been able to arrange the transport of waste himself. The current system has worked very well in Oulu, among others, and the freedom of choice has also enabled smaller waste companies to compete. In a certain way, the power of municipalities will be reduced when the municipalities themselves are no longer allowed to decide on the model of waste transport and, on the other hand, responsibility will be increased, as all shipments of waste will be carried out through the municipality in the future. The Green Left Government therefore wants to socialise the transport of waste, which is not at all in the interests of small entrepreneurs. I wonder how the center can be involved in this kind of thing. Nor is it said that the municipal model is a more advantageous solution for local residents, but in some cases the opposite can be the case, and in addition, the freedom of choice for municipal citizens is reduced. The biggest waste transport companies will succeed in the new model because they can compete. The worst thing is that the government does not have a credible explanation of how this model affects companies on the one hand and jobs on the other. As Mr Purra also pointed out, waste transport can very easily be transferred to foreign companies and also to foreign labour. So, in the worst scenario, you're taking jobs from the Finns. People then wonder when Finns no longer show up in the industry and the doors are open to cheap foreign labour. Mr President! It is pointless for the government to hide behind the back of the European Union, because even though this whole package of legislation is based on EU directives, the EU does not regulate how waste is transported in the Member States. So now we are going to fix something that is not broken in any way. In the first paragraph of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee stressed that by the end of 2025 it would assess the impact of the legislative amendment on the development of the competitive position of small and medium-sized enterprises. If and when small and medium-sized enterprises do not succeed in this new model, they will fail and they will not be created in a monopolistic sector. At that time, we will be far too late with these estimates. The government is destroying the waste transport industry with its socialism. What functioning system will you then pass on without justification to either the municipalities or the state?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u79	Congressman Lundén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u80	Thank you, Mr President. The proposal proposes to amend the Waste Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Chemicals Act and the Criminal Code. Some of the proposed F amendments are necessary for the implementation of the EU waste package and the Permanent Organic Pollutants Regulation, partly due to national needs. The proposal implements the entries included in the strategic package of the Government Programme of Prime Minister Sanna Marin’s Government “Hilineutal and biodiversity-protecting Finland” to increase waste recycling and strengthen Finland’s role as a promoter of the circular economy. Similarly, the Waste Act and the regulations adopted under it would lay down new waste recycling and separate collection targets and obligations. The aim would be to prepare municipal waste for reuse or recycle 55 % by weight in 25, 60 % by weight in 30 and 65 % by weight in 35. The recycling targets for packaging waste would also be tightened. In principle, the Finns of Peru consider it a good starting point for a better, safer and more sustainable society that strengthens the role of our country in the circular economy. However, the Finns cannot accept the present proposal, because we believe that it penalises the entrepreneurial sector in this sector with a very heavy hand. It should also be borne in mind that the dismantling of the dual system, even in part, has significant negative effects on businesses, which have not been properly explained in the proposal. Similarly, this change interferes with the autonomy of the municipality and increases municipal functions in municipalities that have not even wanted to take on an operational role in transport. Mr President! Waste transport companies have been making transport more efficient and purchasing two-, three- or four-box cars for years. They have been able to collect mixed waste, biowaste and paper and packaging waste at the same time. Packaging waste is less frequently emptied, so all packaging waste has been collected in different application rounds, especially in three- and four-box cars, along with mixed and bio-waste. If the current collection system for biowaste and packaging waste is put to an end, the investments made in multi-box cars risk becoming useless at the end of the transport contract. In the case of waste transport organised by the municipality, it is almost without exception that each waste section is competitive at a time, when the use of efficient multi-box packaging cars makes no sense. For example, collecting mixed waste alone in a four-box car is not appropriate. This means that operations are becoming ineffective and the volume of transport is increasing. As noted above, in packaging waste, the transport of waste by the property manager is currently in use in around 70 % of all municipalities. The draft law would therefore significantly change the system that works well today. The change violates the right of an entrepreneur to conduct a business, but it also affects the recycling and reuse of waste. The objective of the EU Directive is to increase the recycling rate, but the proposed change in the transport system is likely to undermine the achievement of the objectives. Mr President! To conclude, I deplore the excessive political direction and coercion in the government's proposal. It should now be noted that neither the Waste Directive nor other EU legislation provide for the way in which waste is transported in the Member States. Discontinuation of the existing double system in respect of separate collection of solid municipal waste
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u81	Thank you. — In the absence of Mr Sirén, in the absence of Mr Hoskonen. — Mr Eskelinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u82	Mr President! The long-standing revision of the Waste Act is now on the way, and that is a great thing. It will accelerate separate collection and circular economy in accordance with the Government Programme and the bill will implement new EU legislation. The aim is to increase the recycling of municipal waste from the current 43% to 63 % by weight by 2035. For the recycling targets for packaging waste, the target is easily achievable, but it is challenging for plastic waste. In order to achieve these objectives, the law contains a number of guidance tools for separate collection. In the debate in the Chamber, I am much surprised at these arguments about the negative effects of the employment effects when recycling and waste collection are increased. I also think that the committee has very much drawn attention to the issue of competition and the spots on competition, which allow local SMEs to continue to provide waste transport services. Furthermore, with regard to the sparsely populated areas, I think it is extremely important that the dual system is maintained. It is now essential for waste companies and municipalities to ensure, at the competitive stage, that the objectives mentioned in the committee statement are met. The reform will increase the responsibility of municipalities to collect waste: it is therefore important for municipalities to cooperate well with residents and companies in the reform. The provisions laid down in the Act, even more stringent than those laid down in the Act on Procurement, strengthen the obligation of municipalities to provide for appropriate competition. What is important is that competition and its conditions take into account, in particular, the factors affecting the regional economy and the possibility for local companies to participate genuinely, as I said earlier, in transport contracts. The law has therefore clarified the current regulation on competition in waste transport contracts. In future, therefore, municipalities will have to distribute transport contracts on a regional and time-scale basis so that local SMEs can take part in competitions and receive works. The reform is also large from the perspective of the residents, from the point of view of detached houses and housing companies. The owners of the property purchased new waste containers in many municipalities with a service from waste management companies. It is also important for municipalities, together with housing companies, to consider various collection methods, such as block and multi-box collection. In implementing the reform, transition periods are important for the organisation of bio-waste and packaging waste, and I am of course a little concerned myself about whether these are sufficient. The implementation of the reform is also particularly important in terms of guidance, clear communication, which will take place in good time, in particular with regard to transition periods and the achievement of the objectives of separate collection. As the role and responsibilities of municipalities grow, it is important that the models supporting the entire waste management chain are taken into account in the decisions taken by municipalities. As a dispute and complaint process in many municipalities in the past, for example in the case of mixed municipal waste, sawmilling and sealed container waste in rural areas, the law still allows for the choice of service provider by means of separate decisions. Also important is the responsibility of producers and producer communities for packaging materials, which is growing and promoting the circular economy, product development and, I also believe, employment to a significant extent. Let us hope that legislation will enable further development of waste treatment and recycling. Municipalities now play an increasingly important role in the implementation and responsibility of the law and as the provider of services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u83	Thank you. — Mr Sankelo is absent, Mr Satonen is absent. — Representative Purra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u84	Mr President! This amendment to the Waste Act is only partly related to this waste package adopted by the EU in summer 2018, which has repeatedly been identified as a good objective: to increase waste recycling and the efficient use of materials. However, as far as these most problematic points are concerned, this proposal — and therefore mainly — stems from national policies and from the government’s own decision, and although the EU often comes to us here, this European side is clearly less problematic than the national side. Well, these waste shipments and the double system have been specifically discussed here today. What is essential is that the waste directive or this EU regulation does not provide for this mode of transport or organisation at all, and the practical abolition of the double system for this separate collection of solid municipal waste and the transition to such a municipal monopoly is a completely national solution based on the government's own policies, and that is something that we in all the committees have always opposed. This will have significant negative effects on the business field, competition and employment. There are a number of examples of this, for example, in places and regions where such localisation has taken place or has already gone towards it. For years, private transport companies have invested in the collection of packaging waste, and it can be estimated, as many experts in the committees have pointed out, that this puts very many jobs — hundreds, even thousands — at risk and many companies at risk. Of course, just as the chairman of the committee has said here, companies should not throw gloves on, but should move towards better competition in the future, but in practice this is very difficult, as we know. With this law, the market will be concentrated, companies will be larger and larger, competition will be reduced and small companies and their capacity to operate will be weakened. And, as many previous speakers have said, this abolition of the dual system in no way necessarily is environmentally optimal. There has been a lot of talk here that these small and medium-sized enterprises can, of course, take part in these competitions and then the municipality has been obliged to engage in this market dialogue and, together with the splitting-up of procurement, this would do something to help, but, as I said myself earlier, this is a rather delusional idea, since this practice does not at least support the fact that this is happening. In general, centralised municipal procurement is not easy for small businesses, and many regions have had bad experiences. I would like to take, for example, Seinäjoki: Before municipalisation there were 17 entrepreneurs active in this field. Now there are 3 — French, Norwegian and only one southern bottom — and at the same time prices have risen higher than those of the neighbours. In our waste market, it is very likely that the Spanish bio-waste company will become the biggest operator, and later the workers will also be non-Finnish. The transfer from this market-based competition to the centralised transport of the municipality is not today. It is not from any point of view, but in Finland, which is still in pain with the interest rate, where we should, on the contrary, make decisions that support entrepreneurs, that is not it. Maintaining the old model would allow municipalities to promote competition in their own territory and have a positive impact on entrepreneurship and employment, and, most importantly, it is perfectly possible to increase recycling within the framework of the current model. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u85	Thank you. — And Mr Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u86	Mr President! The waste law has been discussed here and, of course, particular criticism has been directed at the fact that this is very, once again, entrepreneurial negative, that is to say, the ability of companies to act here again is being undermined. I was just paying attention to the fact that we were already talking about this government programme record, and I am drawing attention to it. It says this: ‘In the context of the ongoing revision of the Waste Act,it is ensured that the municipalities comply with the provisions of the Waste Act even The limit for the disposal of municipal waste management operator shall be maintained at 10 % as from 1 January 2030.’ This is a little tricky when the government programme is not being followed. It is precisely here that reference is made to these transports provided for the holders of real estate, and now they are being taken away. I do not know why the government programme was not followed. In this respect, it would have been all right. There is much more that you should not have followed. In any case, this is very anti-entrepreneurship. That's where Congressman Purra told me what happened in Seinäjoki, and it shouldn't get any worse. That is why I am really concerned about this. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u87	Thank you. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u88	Mr President! Indeed, the government parties here have said that it is important to ensure that the SME sector gets involved in these competitions. It would be quite horrifying, quite honestly, if they did not even get into those competitions. There are quite a few people who have pointed out that it is important to ensure that the SME sector is also able to offer. However, I think we should at least talk about the right terms: we should make sure that the SME sector also has the chance to win those competitions and not just offer them. But even if the SME sector is doing extremely well in these competitions, unfortunately, the Finnish worker may not necessarily be who plays the role of benefit. When you start fighting multinational corporations — or you may be just as big as you are in your own country — you may win the competition against such big giants quite often because employees’ salaries are not being managed at the same level as before, regardless of any compensation, but this of course tells you that. The feedback from Finnish workers, who have travelled the field a lot, is that we have reasonable ideas about how to imagine getting the wages that we had before. Now such a policy, what the present government is doing, seems to forget those opportunities for workers in it, and soon everyone will go into temporary employment or something like that. You can't hold on because you have to compete against these giants, and when you can't compete there except by trampling down the price in some way. If you have millions of equipment in the yard, it really does not necessarily have many other options — or there is another option, the experience of the signatory’s representative that when you do not go there, then it is not necessarily a good solution either. I'd like to say that I don't understand downtown people, I don't understand anything. You've been forced to sell this with something. This is a completely absurd performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u89	Congressman Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u90	Mr President! Competition often turns against itself. This is a matter of the Waste Act, but in a similar way in many other cases the Finnish company, the Finnish entrepreneur, will then be number two, and this too is a fear of going that way. Of course, we should work to ensure that entrepreneurs stay in Finland and that the Finnish workforce is strongly involved there, but how to keep our jobs and entrepreneurs so that they can cope with the demands of everyday life is something the government has to do. Now it feels like the government is a little anti-entrepreneurship, but entrepreneurship is still the one that supports Finland. If we run out of business, we won't have any income. So what? This can't go quite the way we're going with horses. But we have to keep the industry here, and we have to try to keep everything here as far as possible. If you were thinking about these recovery funds that were going to the EU, which went in a way — I don’t think anyone really knows — wherever they went now, even to the mafia, then if they had actually been used to push domestic businesses forward, even if they were to support self-employed people, so that they could hire the first employee, I would have seen that it would have been a much better option for Finland and Finland’s competitiveness. Now it seems that quite a lot of money goes elsewhere, but the Finnish entrepreneur is about to forget.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u91	Congressman Purra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u92	Mr President! One last thing I forgot in that speech, that is exactly what Mr Laakso described. Once these large multinationals have access to this waste market, there will be price dumping not only in labour costs but also elsewhere. It is quite likely that when such a company has half of Europe and is a small Finland there, the collection and recycling of waste in Finland will not be carried out profitably at all, but it is possible to trample prices so low that Finland will make a loss for this company. How, then, could you imagine, within such a reality, that a smaller or even medium-sized company, a local company employing Finnish workers, paying wages according to TES, could compete with such a company? This, too, is not an unfortunate dystopia, but a fact from all over Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u93	Thank you. — Representative Sipilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u94	Mr President! I very much understand the debate and criticism that is taking place here in this Chamber about this elimination of the dual system and about the short transition period. That is what I say to Mr Purra: it seems to me that the greatest concern and risk in this regard is that these go to large international players, not that municipal waste companies should be set up to do this. Mr Laakso, who is an operator in the sector and has made a very well-founded criticism here, is to the extent that in this statement we do not simply state that ‘smaller hauliers can take part in competitions ‘in the first place’ and obtain transport contracts’. This is, of course, the starting point of the committee's report, that those works will also be obtained and competitions will be won.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u95	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — I will open the debate. Congressman Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u96	Mr President! I propose that the committee's report's arguments be adopted in accordance with the objections and that the committee's proposal for a statement be rejected. According to Section 7 of Chapter 25 of the Criminal Code, a person who raises a weapon against another person or otherwise threatens another person with a criminal offence is convicted of an unlawful threat, under circumstances where the person threatened has a legitimate reason for fearing personal security or property to be in serious danger. The offences referred to in this provision, which may constitute an illegal threat, are, above all, homicide, assault, destruction, theft and damage. An illegal threat today is, in principle, a crime of the plaintiff. According to Section 9 of Chapter 25 of the Criminal Code, the prosecutor may not prosecute an illegal threat unless the plaintiff declares it to be indicted or if a life-threatening instrument has been used to make an illegal threat or unless a very important public interest requires prosecution. The government proposal proposes to turn an illegal threat into a formal charge if the act has been committed against a person because of his or her duties or public trust. In such cases, the criminal pre-trial investigation, prosecution and judicial proceedings would therefore no longer depend on the applicant’s application for punishment. We agree with the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the amendment of the rule on the prosecution of illegal threats and stress that it is important that the task and public confidence can be carried out without threats of violence or other crime. Mr President! In future, an illegal threat would be a criminal offence under official charge if the act was committed against a person because of his public trust. We believe it is important to monitor the functioning and impact of regulation in this regard in the future in order to ensure that the response to an illegal threat is not politicised in such a way as to attempt to use the regulation defining the criminality of an illegal threat in an unjustifiable manner or otherwise contrary to its purpose. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs considers it important that the adequacy of the proposed change in criminal law should be monitored in the future and that it should be assessed whether an illegal threat is justified and appropriate to turn it into a formal charge in general or, if any, more widely. As Finns of Finland, we believe that an illegal threat should not, however, be generalized as an offence under official charge, because, for example, it is not appropriate to impose a burden on the official machinery when dealing with intoxicated persons. This should have been clearly stated in the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. The report by the Committee on Legal Affairs stresses the need to combat the practice of targeting effectively. It is notable, however, that paint is a concept that is not defined in criminal law or other legislation, and there is no established definition of paint. At the moment, paint is used as an arbitrary general concept in public debate to describe all possible undesirable activities, such as critical comments in social media, despite the fact that the debate on the actions of public authorities, political decision-makers and those involved in their public work and even harsh criticism are an essential part of freedom of speech and opinion in the rule of law. The concept of painting is also well politicised. It is a term that refers to everything, in which case it actually means nothing. Mr President! According to the committee's report, it will be appropriate to assess, among other things, the need for and the possibility of introducing a separate penalty provision in the criminal code. In this context, it should be borne in mind that the Criminal Code already provides for criminal offences against officials, for example, the dissemination and persecution of information that violates private life. Among other things, defamation, public call for crime, illegal threat, data protection crime, vandalism and violation of media peace are also punishable. Therefore, since the existing criminal codes already cover the procedures which may be considered to be part of the unclear definition of paint, we believe, as fundamental Finns, that there is no need for a separate set of marks on paint, which should have been explicitly stated in the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. It is also noteworthy that, according to a report received by the Legal Committee, the target has not been criminalised as such in any other country. In any case, we do not see the need for an extension of the range of criminal instruments that restrict freedom of expression. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u97	Thank you. — And Mr Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Tynkkynen well presented the protest of the Finns of Peru. I support these amendments and the rejection of the statement. As chairman of the committee, last week I presented this change. Indeed, this right to prosecute an illegal threat will be turned into a formal charge in certain circumstances. This is a serious crime and it is acceptable in itself. However, I personally find it somewhat worrying that the majority of the committee here in the committee's proposal uses the word 'painting'. As a lawyer, I believe that we should use terms that are clear and objective in principle in the committee's reports. As Mr Tynkkynen has pointed out, so as to score... [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u99	Thank you. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Legal Committee, representative The sea made an excellent speech here, where he opened up this matter even more widely. All legislation should comply with that requirement of precision. Unfortunately, the explanatory statement in the report has now included a set of terminology which is not specific at any level — that is to say, a target — and therefore, in a way, leads the legislation in a more unclear direction. I would suggest that these terms should always be in order first, very precise, before they start to be used in the explanatory statement. This hate speech is another matter. It is a term that cannot be found in our law, but more and more here in Parliament is being discussed with this term about what should be banned, even though there are no definitions for it. Therefore, when we talk about freedom of expression in Finland, which is a fundamental right under the rule of law, unfortunately we are heading in the direction that citizens will soon no longer know what to say: Is this the goal or not? Is this the hate speech or not? These terms have not been defined, and we are therefore going in a really, really worrying direction from the point of view of legal certainty. Today, Mr President, in the Committee on Audit, we have produced a report. We have been dealing with this VTV issue for a long time and Director General Yli-Viikar. It can be seen that if we go in Finland in the direction of, for example, setting the target as a crime, so this kind of very strong and massive criticism of a particular authority can fill the mark of the crime, and such criticism of the media and citizens and so on towards Tytti Yli-Viikar could in future fill the marks of the goal. I personally see that in the rule of law, any exercise of power must also be able to be viewed and criticised in a transparent manner. It would also limit the ability of us politicians to take a stand if we were to go in this direction of goal-making. I am very disappointed that in the Committee on Legal Affairs we were not able to reach consensus that this target should be removed. But here we, as Finns, have work ahead of us to convince Parliament that goalmaking must never be brought into the criminal code in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u101	Thank you. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u102	Mr President! It was actually quite confusing to listen to the Committee on Legal Affairs' comments on this criminal law. And when you've been talking about scoring, what's all this paintball? No one really knows what it is. I guess it should be defined as what it's really like to score. No one knows what that means. It's very confusing that such a conversation is taking place. Freedom of expression is an enormously important issue. That is something we should safeguard. Let us not go to the fact that if someone else thinks otherwise, it is wrong, certainly not. You can disagree, and you have to disagree, and you have to make your views known. Of course, it is extraordinary to have such human-related matters directed at a person, but freedom of opinion is terribly important to maintain. If this kind of painting-term is taken here, then soon there will be a system in Finland as well as in one of the Americas, there will be a lot of work for lawyers. This freedom of expression is important; it is very important. It is ensured that each of us in Finland has the freedom to express our opinion as it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u103	Congressman Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u104	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to add one more point of view. Indeed, the fact that the prosecution can prosecute a person for committing an illegal threat to a person because of a job was now changed, which was also accepted by the Group of the Finnish People’s Party’s Committee. It is understandable, for example, if it is directed at the police, the judiciary, the paramedics and this type of work, and this threat is, in principle, a threat to life and health, in which case a person has a legitimate reason to fear for himself or his family, and that is never acceptable. Do not engage in this type of activity to pressure or force people. Then the criticism is separate. But on this same occasion I became, on a slightly lighter basis, something that has not yet been mentioned. In other words, an illegal threat would also be subject to official prosecution if the act was committed on account of his public trust, and this now applies, among other things, to municipal representatives and parliamentarians. This was not so much discussed there, and in committee we worked hard to find out what, for example, the municipal government or other conclaves are supposed to do, for example, to file criminal reports, and it was said that there is no obligation but that there may be some action if the plaintiff himself does not press charges. This is quite a challenge when these criminal reports are sometimes played and politicised easily, and the Group of the Greens would have liked to have carefully followed this change, which came here a little bit at the same time, and then it would have been considered that if, for some reason, this was to be misused or distorted, it should be considered to be overturned. We would also like to see such an addition to this report, but it is good to remember that anyone can now, in future, make this request for investigation. It is very different from the crime of the plaintiff. This also changes the political field. Of course, with concern, I will be watching it and regret that the committee did not say that, if it is the case that it is being misused, for example, just before the elections, it can cause a person to suffer a reputation if they start making such declarations. It is then very responsible for everyone to remember that, of course, as the committee states, it is punishable to make a false request for an inquiry, but to prove it... Its request for investigation can always be formulated in such a comfortable way that it is not easy to assume responsibility. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u105	Thank you. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u106	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Reijo for his excellent speech when he went through this problem of scoring, how this term is unclear. At the end of the day, I would like to take an example of what in practice can mean if, in future, we have a crime of scoring: For example, in Helsinki there was a situation like this that the Senate Square had such a huge Black Lives Matter demonstration, and there were then two policemen who had taken this Black Lives Matter sign in their hand and posed with it, and then there were pictures of it in the media — despite the fact that the task of the police is to be an impartial actor and to secure the right of various groups and parties to demonstrate their minds and not to go as a party. Well, this type of action, when the power-holders are abusing their position, is something that, of course, deserves criticism. Now, if a single citizen goes on social media to criticise the activities of these policemen, how they act contrary to their duties in uniform, for example, if such a television on Twitter were to collect a huge number of retaliatory and likes and comments, which would result in further criticism of these policemen, then this individual citizen, who has exercised his own right, freedom of speech and expression of opinion in his freedom of expression, may actually be guilty of targeting these policemen, even though in reality he wanted only as a person to criticise such activities, which are not appropriate to policemen. Fortunately, it was now stated that this action was wrong, and it became sanctions and remarks, but if no one dares, as in advance, to criticize the authorities for fear that if suddenly a larger group of people find such a tweet or an update and others go out to distribute it, they will be guilty of scoring on account of their criticism of the authorities. It is in the legal state that civil society is strong. Unfortunately, we do not have such a civil society in Russia and there is no such civil society in North Korea; in such countries, where people are afraid to criticise those in power, because they are always condemned. We simply cannot go in this direction in Finland, that the citizens are afraid that what if this criticism, which they are making, is going to be the main point that the citizens are going to swoop in and grind. In the age of social media, the situation is that some particular criticism may be scaled up very quickly really big and get on the news, but we need to protect the right of citizens to demonstrate their minds.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u107	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — I will open the debate. Representative Könttä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u108	Thank you, Mr President. This proposal was also discussed in the Committee on Transport, on which I will bring a few general comments. Firstly, the proposal to promote the use of biofuels is welcome in many places — and it is precisely when it comes to promoting it, not forcing it. The aim here is to ensure that the distribution obligation system will continue to be a cost-effective and administratively light way of reducing emissions from transport. It is worth noting that this proposal does not change the percentage of the distribution obligation and that after this proposal the same amount of low-emission propulsion is produced for transport, but that range is now expanding. The present draft law does not propose any changes to the level of the distribution obligation, which will be 30% in 2030. This 30% distribution obligation level is already a decision taken by the previous Parliament. From the point of view of domestic production and domesticity, this proposal can be considered good. The proposal increases the demand for biogas and makes it more possible to use it in transport. Firstly, the addition of biogas to the distribution obligation also increases the profitability of investments in biogas production plants. Secondly, for fuel distributors, the proposal increases the possibilities of fulfilling the distribution obligation as these options expand. Thirdly, the proposal creates incentives for the development of synthetic fuels, as there is also a new demand for them under the law. And fourthly, the proposal has been prepared in such a way that farms can also be subject to a distribution obligation. Thank you very much for this, especially for the countryside. The proposal supports the city centre's transport line, where emissions are reduced through domestic renewable deployment, while at the same time creating investment and jobs in the home country. New fuels have already been developed in Finland, for example Neste sells very profitable fuels around the world. Domestic fuels are an area of the future where fossil fuels can be replaced, and we have opportunities in Finland to respond to the change in the world. The wider deployment of domestic biogas is a good example of this, and so it is that more domestic work is more Finnish work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u109	Thank you. — Representative Talvitie absent. — Mr Vallin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u110	Mr President! I object to the Finns of Peru with their statements. Let me first read the explanatory statement and then three statements. Reasons: The Government's proposal is intended to implement the recast EU RED II Directive on renewable energy for transport. Finland has set clearly higher targets for the use of biofuels than the EU's objectives, which will unnecessarily increase the absolute and relative price level of Finland's fuel costs and thus reduce the competitiveness of our companies. The proposal extends the scope of the national distribution obligation to biogas and renewable liquid and gaseous fuels of non-biological origin. This is a welcome change, since market orientation and the development of future technologies can now produce hard-to-predict end-outs. In the opinion of the Finns Party, hydrogen in particular can play a more important role in the future as an ecological substitute for fossil fuels. According to the RED II Directive, energy from renewable sources must account for at least 32% of final energy consumption in 2030 and renewable energy must account for at least 14% of final energy consumption in transport in 2030. The national target levels set by the Finnish Government are 50 and 30 per cent respectively. Mr President! In the framework of the Finnish Environment and Energy Policy Programme 2019, ‘the obligation to distribute REDIIbiofuels in transport fuels does not prevent other EU countries from using other EU countries before or at a higher level,asthere is no serious obstacle to the operation In addition, too tight a blending obligation is also a cost burden for households. Transport is a necessary cost, so that the increase in prices does not reduce traffic volumes but goes directly to prices, thereby cutting the purchasing power of households and the dynamism of our economy. The increase in the distribution obligation itself does not even ensure progress in environmental objectives, as the environmental impact of biofuel production varies and the availability of biofuels is limited. Mr President! In view of the above, we propose that the draft law be adopted otherwise in accordance with the committee's report, but that three statements be adopted. Arguments of the objection: ‘1. Parliament requires the government to change the national target levels for renewable energy use to the minimum level of the RED II Directive. “ ‘2.The Commission requires the Government to clarify how to promote the use of hydrogen as a ‘3. Parliament requires that the Government does not confuse the tightening of the obligation with the competitiveness of Finnish companies or the purchasing power of households.”
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u111	Thank you. — Representative Kopra absent. — — — — Congressman Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u112	Mr President! Firstly, I support the proposals made by Mr Vallin, the statements, the objections to change. Yes, the Finns of Finland always think that this is a sensible job and that even in Finland we should not be the first to go along with everything if the rest of the world has not gone through this. Finland should not be more tense and tense to start all these systems than is being done in the rest of the world. There are no ordinary people who suffer in it, and there are entrepreneurs who suffer in it. If you think that even if you drive, cars are transported with fuels, then it is quite different if the price is really much more expensive with the same mileage of these new systems than with these earlier ones. We must not get involved in these too quickly, but we must think about what it costs businesses and what it costs households. So I support these proposals made by Mr Vallin. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u113	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 11/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Congressman Hyrkko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u114	Thank you, Mr President. I present the report by the committee: During the last period, the Aliens Act was amended to limit the presence of a public-funded assistant in the asylum interview and reduce the time for appeals. The Law on Legal Aid was amended by providing for a fixed set of individual fees for matters of international protection. These entered into force in autumn 2016. This proposal proposes to repeal the above-mentioned specific provisions of the Aliens Act and the Legal Aid Act. The aim is to strengthen the legal protection and fundamental and human rights of applicants for international protection and to harmonise legal aid with other categories. The aim is also to streamline the process. The committee has supported the aims of the proposal and has supported the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the proposal. The Administrative Committee has also supported the legislative proposals contained in the proposal. In matters of international protection, this change makes it possible to better obtain legal aid for the administrative phase, i.e. the phase in which an asylum application is submitted and processed by the Finnish Immigration Service. However, according to the amendment to the Aliens Act, which entered into force in 2016, legal aid does not include the presence of a lawyer in an asylum interview unless it is necessary for particularly serious reasons or is a minor. It is now proposed to repeal the provision, which means that in future the assistant may participate in the interview as necessary and may receive a fee for assistance under the Legal Aid Act from the State. The right of a foreigner to legal aid in matters of international protection will therefore be governed only by the Law on Legal Aid. The Legal Affairs Committee has therefore supported the proposed amendment. These are legally challenging issues where the consequences of wrong decisions can be serious. The applicant is often a person who does not know Finnish society and the legal system and knows the language or is vulnerable due to his/her minor status, for example. The report highlights the key role of the interview in identifying and resolving the conditions for international protection and asylum, which is why it is important that all issues are clarified as early as possible. Of course, the Finnish Immigration Service has a duty of inquiry on its own, but according to a report from the Agency, the absence of a legal assistant from the interview has increased the presence of various non-skilled supporters. In the interview with the assistant, the expert hearing does not assess the actual reduction in the number of complaints to the administrative court or oral hearings to be held in the administrative court, but it is estimated that it may improve the quality of the complaints and reduce the procedural errors made by the administrative court or the submission of entirely new asylum grounds only at the stage of the appeal. It is clear from the report that some experts pointed out in committee that the law should continue to contain a specific provision that the assistant should be present in the interview only when it is not unnecessary to consider the applicant's ability to present the report himself. However, according to the Legal Aid Committee, it is already apparent from the general applicable provisions of the Legal Aid Act that legal aid covers the necessary measures. The committee considers that the general applicable provisions of the Legal Aid Act are clear and adequate also in matters of international protection and that the involvement of an assistant in an asylum interview will therefore not be automatic and is not a subjective right for the applicant. This proposal also amends and restores the appeal periods so that the appeal must be made within 21 days of notification of the Finnish Immigration Service’s decision, and the appeal period to the Supreme Administrative Court changes from the current 14 days to the general appeal period of 30 days. The effects of the special provisions of the Aliens Act have been examined in several projects since the entry into force of the amendments to the Act. It is apparent from the presentation that shorter time limits may have led to a lack of time or lack of time for complaints. It has also been estimated that the reduction in the time limits for complaints has not been of great importance for the overall duration of the process and that the reduction in the time limits for complaints has not been estimated to have improved or speeded up the handling of cases. The expert hearings of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights also raised the above points and considered that the reduction in the time limits for appeals did not achieve the objectives that the amendment was intended to achieve at the time. In its report, the committee supports, in view of the proposed amendment, the principle of equality and legal certainty, that the time for appeals for asylum decisions is consistent with other categories of matter. The normal period of appeal is also considered to contribute to the timely and high-quality filing of the complaint and to the smoothing of court proceedings. The report also deals with this issue of remuneration, and the Legal Aid Act provides for a reasonable remuneration for the necessary measures on the basis of time spent on them and the necessary travel and waste of time and expenses. By way of derogation from this, in the case of international protection, a private legal aid lawyer is currently granted a reasonable remuneration per case, and an amendment is proposed in order to repeal this specific provision. In the committee's deliberations, it has been seen that both benefits and disadvantages are linked to the specific remuneration provided for in the Legal Aid Act. From the point of view of the courts and legal aid offices determining the fee, the individual fee has been easy and quick to process. On the other hand, from the point of view of a private assistant, the reward may already have led to the fact that experienced assistants may not have received the corresponding remuneration for their work. In a number of investigations and inquiries into legal aid, the case-by-case model has been identified as problematic, in particular in the light of the risk that expert assistants may be able to handle matters relating to international protection because of the risk that fees which are perceived to be too low may reduce qualified assistants. In this regard too, the committee has decided in its report to support the conversion of the premium criterion into time-bound. The advantage of this amendment is that the amount of work required by each case may be taken into account when determining the hourly remuneration. The committee has also drawn attention to the financial impact of the proposal and has stated in its report that monitoring the adequacy of resources is very important. As a result of the situation of the corona virus, the number of new asylum seekers has decreased, but as the virus epidemic subsides, it may start to rise again. Additional staff are needed in the Legal Aid Office because, following legal changes, legal aiders are increasingly involved in an asylum interview. The report estimates that additional staff are needed for the Legal Aid Office and that the need for an appropriation in 21 will increase to EUR 700000 and from 22 onwards to EUR 920000. Compensation for private assistants will also increase to EUR 380,000 from 21 onwards. The committee has also pointed out that it has just dealt with the budgetary plan for the years 22 to 25, and here it is intended to highlight the fact that there is already a very tight and tight and very high number of temporary posts in the area of justice and legal aid. According to the study received, this significantly complicates the handling of the cases of public legal assistance clients and jeopardises legal certainty. The committee's draft decision is that Parliament approves the Government's proposal 247/2020 vp included in the 1st and 2nd legislative proposal. The report contains an objection from the Finns of Peru to the rejection of legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u115	Thank you. — Representative Hyrkko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u116	Mr President! This is an important reform which will strengthen the legal protection of vulnerable persons and the access to high-quality legal assistance. This reform will indeed reverse the weakening of the legal protection of asylum seekers during the last regime. This means three key changes: appeal periods and assistant fees will be returned to normal, and an expert assistant may, if necessary, be involved from the start of the process. Mr President! Legal security issues are highlighted in matters of international protection, and that is precisely why this reform is necessary and fair. These are legally challenging issues where the consequences of wrong solutions can be very serious. The asylum process shall examine whether the applicant is at risk of being threatened with death or torture or other cruel or inhumane treatment. Applicants generally do not know Finnish society, the legal system or the language. The applicant may also be vulnerable due to traumatic experiences, health, minority or other reasons. These points highlight the need for legal assistance. Mr President! The asylum process can be a matter of life and death. In every case, it is essential to build trust and to ensure legal certainty and humane treatment for the applicant. In the asylum procedure, it is the good initial quality that ensures a fair solution and proper treatment for applicants and saves the resources of the authorities. The current state is not sustainable. The studies have clearly shown that the effects of the changes made in 2016 have been negative. The availability and quality of legal aid was reduced and the time for appeal was tightened. Yet the desired effects, savings or accelerated processing times, these objectives, did not materialise. Well, now we're gonna make a change. In the future, an expert assistant will be able to join the asylum seeker in an asylum interview if necessary. The periods of appeal shall be returned to the other administrative cases and the assistants shall receive appropriate compensation for the work they have carried out. These changes were widely supported by experts consulted by the Legal Committee. Mr President! There is still work to be done after that. In my view, further work should be carried out to correct the threshold for the authorisation of complaints in accordance with the general provisions, to ensure the qualifications of assistants and to improve the ability of applicants to choose their own assistants at the beginning of the process. An evaluation of the competence and diligence of the assistants is currently under way at the Ministry, and the need for new measures is to be assessed during the summer. On the basis of expert consultations, the Committee on Legal Affairs also considers it justified to assess the need to extend the scope of the use of private assistants at the administrative stage in general or in matters of international protection. This could improve the ability of the applicant to select his/her assistants at an early stage of the process and, where appropriate, also by making use of private assistants. In this context, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights notes in its report that the regulation already in force, as stated above, allows guidance to be given to a private assistant for a number of reasons. However, on the basis of expert consultations, the practices with regard to the exploitation of this possibility are very varied. Mr President! This reform has been under discussion in Parliament for a long time. At the same time, many people and many families have been waiting for these reforms for a long time. For some, they're too late. Of course, there should not have been any weakening of legal certainty now to be lifted, but it is good that the situation is now finally being corrected, as has already been agreed in the Government Programme. This reform is about human rights, the rule of law and equal treatment, so that those who need protection and security can count on the availability of assistance. In the light of studies and expert opinions, the objection lodged in the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is not sustainable. It would leave the present situation in place, with absolutely unquestionable problems. Mr President! Human dignity does not depend on the background, the thickness of the wallet or the land of birth, it is equal to everyone. Everyone has the right to live, the right to live safe and the right to live free from oppression and persecution.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u117	Thank you. — Representative Simula, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u118	Mr President! The government's proposal proposes that the asylum seeker should also have a publicly funded assistant in the asylum interview and that the time limits for complaints concerning asylum decisions be extended. On the other hand, the payment of legal aid would be an hourly remuneration rather than an individual remuneration. Ladies and gentlemen! This government proposal is a typical example of the indirect costs of immigration and the increase in these costs, which we Finns have talked about widely. These small streams in different sectors constitute immigration even a productive business for some, but they are mainly financed from public funds, either directly or indirectly, such as organisational grants, subsidies and government salaries. Even at the moment, an assistant can be used for asylum interviews if there is a particular reason for doing so. These include minors, illiteracy or traumatisation of the asylum seeker. Even in the current model, every asylum seeker can use an assistant before and after an asylum interview. In practice, the presence of an assistant does not have a significant impact on the asylum interview, as the obligation to clarify has in principle been emphasised by the authority. In other words, asylum seekers who are able to manage their own affairs can in future be recruited from social funds, which will naturally increase the cost of assistance. The shift from the relevant remuneration model to the hourly remuneration also increases the administrative burden and thus public expenditure. The extension of the period of appeal from the current 14 to 30 days will also further increase State expenditure. An asylum seeker spends a longer period of time in reception services, when reception expenses increase in proportion. We estimate that the current number of asylum seekers would cost around EUR 4 million per year. Mr President! From the perspective of Finns, tax resources collected from Finns should be used for the services and well-being of Finns. For example, the increase in social and health expenditure caused by the corona virus we do not even know yet, not to mention other economic shocks. Nevertheless, the government considers that we could afford such a service and additional expenditure — that is to say, tax revenue. It is indeed a question of value choices and whether or not to prioritise matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u119	Thank you. — And Mr Koponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u120	Mr President! The Marin Government is extending legal aid to asylum seekers by repealing specific provisions adopted during the last government term to the Aliens and Legal Aid Act. The proposal should, if implemented, increase the costs of central government finances, increase the manufacturing of complaints and hence the workload of administrative courts, extend processing times and remove human resources from legal aid offices. If assistants are employed through continuous asylum interviews, there is a serious risk that their working hours will simply no longer be sufficient, for example, in matters of straddling and inheritance disputes, child care and maintenance, criminal matters and labour disputes. The presence of the assistant in the interview does not, in principle, have a significant impact on the settlement of the matter, even though the Government's proposal claims that it does. Therefore, the assistant should continue to participate in the asylum interview only if it is strictly necessary for the legal protection of the applicant and for the clarification of the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u121	Thank you. — And Mr Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u122	Thank you, Mr President. As a member of the parliamentary group, just now as chairman of the committee, I have just presented the report, and a few points on the basis of why we are proposing to reject this bill. The expert hearings highlighted this assistant’s presence in the asylum interview: In particular, the Southern Finland Legal Aid and Lobby District, which handles a large number of these assistance tasks, reported that there are very few resources already available at the moment in legal aid offices and reported that one applicant’s interview may take up to three days, and they say that there is no labour force to participate in interviews and that the queues are long already in legal aid offices, especially in the capital region. Well, money has now been earmarked for this and, as has been pointed out in this previous speech, immigration and the affairs of immigrants seem to be the point where money is found. As I said in that previous presentation, the Committee on Legal Affairs has already pointed out that we have been in a crisis for years in terms of public finances. There is a great deal of load, and people are tired there and there is a great shortage of resources, but this is always a subject for which there seems to be an additional resource. And this opinion of the Legal Aid Office states: ‘If there are assistants who are still being employed through visual interviews,it must be at serious risk that time may not be allowed to be spent in legal aid offices,e.g.on stratification andheritage disputes,on childcare issues,on criminal matters,on labour disputes,on occupational pension complaints andonce And they also talked about the administrative burden in this regard if this basis of the premium is changed. There was good feedback from the Legal Aid Offices that this per-tax remuneration argument has made their workload easier, and now it is rising again, and it is also the administrative burden that should be reduced. Furthermore, in the committee hearing, we asked whether the use of assistants in the interview would reduce the number of appeals, which is precisely where it will become more high-quality. Well, of course, the Finnish Immigration Service has an obligation to investigate, but in its reply the Etelä-Suomen legal aid and lobbying district stated that it depends very well on the case, but they say that, even if there is an assistant in every interview, almost all negative decisions are complained of, so the impact is likely to be rather minor. And I think that this is not going to solve the problem of putting the assistants in their ranks now. They also say that it would be more important for these people to be consulted before the interview — not so much as to sit down in the interview — to be able to tell us what matters need to be raised there, however, when the speaker is acting under official responsibility and the staff of the Finnish Immigration Service have been highly trained. The legal aid and lobbying district says that in the interview, the assistant has only limited opportunities to intervene if the applicant is cross-talking. And I know that it will be presented at second reading, but I would like to point out here that we do have arguments based on expert hearings as to why this bill and the legislative proposals should be rejected. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u123	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 12/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Congressman Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u124	Thank you, Mr President. These are the provisions of the agreement between the People's Republic of Poland and Finland in civil, family and criminal matters. Poland has terminated the agreement and this law is therefore coming into force on 16 October 2021. For the reasons set out in the government proposal and in the light of the report it has received, the committee considers that this proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee supports the adoption of the draft law contained in the proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u125	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — I will open the debate. Representative Könttä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u126	Thank you, Mr President. I actually had the wrong papers, but now I found the right ones. Mr President! There was a wide-ranging debate on this in the Committee on Transport and Communications and some very relevant points were made in the Committee on Transport and Communications through extensive cooperation and, in my opinion, they are also well documented in this report. One of the things that has spoken to us a lot and I have raised myself is that we have very different types of ports and uses in this country and, fortunately, they have now been taken into account here. Of course, there is still a small threat here as to how the authorities will then use this discretion, as is stated in this report, in situations where a place or region can be considered to be small. I hope that the authorities will use common sense here, but it is clearly stated here that it will be possible to clarify the interpretation at a later stage by means of a Government decree, if it turns out to be necessary in practice, i.e. if we see the kind of arbitrariness that several Members of Parliament have drawn attention to in this House. The second point I would like to make about this proposal is this use of the proposal. In other words, if there are ports, for example, where there are real fishing activities or fishing activities based on business, but it is very small-scale, then the principle of smallness would also be taken into account and thus no longer make it difficult to pursue a business. Given the overall picture, this proposal must be supported and accepted, and I believe that, even on the basis of this report, the authorities will then use the ad hocity and common sense shown by the committee and Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u127	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — I will open the debate. Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u128	Mr President! As chairman of the committee, I will briefly say about this report. The Act amending Articles 39 and 40 of the Universities Act and the Act amending Articles 14 and 29 of the Universities of Applied Sciences Act temporarily have made it possible for a university degree student to register as absent in the first academic year because of the obstacle to completing studies related to corona. Furthermore, under the above-mentioned laws, universities are not obliged to organise studies and guidance leading to a qualification as required by law, if this is not possible due to the corona epidemic. These temporary laws will remain in force until the end of July. The Government's proposal proposes to amend the provisions of the abovementioned laws so that these laws are in force until the end of the academic year 21-22, i.e. until the end of July next year, i.e. until the end of July 2022. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Education considers it necessary and appropriate for the Government's proposal to be adopted unanimously without amendment. This is linked to these corona laws, which restrict and make it possible, but it has been considered sensible to move on for a year now, so that one way or another the studies can be guaranteed. And this has to do with colleges. - Thank you, this is it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u129	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — I will open the debate. Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u130	Mr President! These are also proposed interest rate laws, and this proposal proposes to amend the entry into force of the Act amending Article 52 of the Vocational Training Act to extend the law, as in the previous proposal, until the end of July next year. As a result of the corona epidemic, the implementation of vocational training is still different from the normal state. For reasons related to the interest rate situation, the temporary amendment, which entered into force at the beginning of July 2020, has relaxed provisions on how skills and skills can be demonstrated, i.e. evidence of implementation and the assessment of skills. Under the exception provision, displays can be carried out instead of genuine work situations and work processes by carrying out other practical tasks which are as close as possible to genuine work situations and work processes. The extension of the derogation provision will provide for a possible need to give flexibility to the requirements of the main rule on the way in which evidence is provided, if the interest rate situation makes it necessary for the academic year beginning on 1.8. The conditions for the exceptional organisation of evidence are not proposed to be changed. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Education considers that the Government's proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee proposes the adoption of a legislative proposal contained in a government proposal without amendment. I would just like to say that we discussed this very seriously, however, because there are certain areas in which these evidences, evidence of practical working life, are terribly difficult to carry out in a non-authentic working environment. Such laboratory displays do not always necessarily show the skills required for qualifications. This is an important debate from the point of view of the quality of its education, from the point of view of the quality of its competence, but also from the point of view that the employer must be able to count on the fact that if the student has a diploma, he will certainly know what is required for that degree. It is also, in part, quite this, or very far, even the issue of safety and real trust between working life and education. However, we felt that this could be continued and, of course, we are confident that teachers will be professional, as they are in Finland, and will also ensure that what happens with knowledge does not get a degree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u131	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — I will open the debate. Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u132	Mr President! The provisions proposed in the Government's proposal are intended to provide for the possibility that, in exceptional ways, teaching may also be required during the academic year 2021 to 2022 for reasons arising from the coronavirus epidemic, the virus pandemic. Similar fixed-term provisions have been adopted twice in the past, the most recent of which will expire at the end of July this year. The committee believes that the government's proposal, given the uncertainty surrounding the continuation of the corona situation, is justified and that it is important that basic education should be made possible, if necessary, through exceptional educational arrangements, so that education and learning of children and young people is not interrupted due to a corona pandemic. The committee considers that the proposal's guidelines on the primacy of local education and the shortest possible duration of distance education continue to be important. Provisions relating to the transition to exceptional teaching arrangements should not be made in the interests of certainty, but should be based on an accurate assessment, taking into account the requirements of the regulations of the authorities. In the third amending budget of 2021, the committee attaches importance to the allocation of EUR 40 million for pre- and basic education and early childhood education. It aims to offset the negative effects of the corona virus situation, such as an increase in the learning gap and a deterioration in the well-being of students. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Education considers that the Government's proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee proposes the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the government proposal as unchanged. We also had a long debate on this bill, because we have been very concerned about the so-called care students, whose studies are not progressing during these periods of distance learning and through distance learning. Not everyone is able to focus, or their circumstances, the operating environment or the learning environment may not be one that supports learning remotely. That is why we have used a rather long chapter on the topic, ‘Students in a Wounding Station’, because they need to be provided with further student care anyway. We also discussed the situation of family members at risk because we also have children who would be wanted to be kept away if there was a person in the family at risk. These are, of course, special matters, and I am sure the doctors who are treating them will take a stand if the situation requires that the child cannot go to school in such a situation. Then we wanted to highlight the clarity of children’s opinions and also the need to study and follow up on this matter that distance education can accomplish. All in all, we regard local education as a priority, but given this pandemic situation, we also understand the need for this law to continue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u133	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, Mr Könttä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-15-ps-76.u134	Thank you, Mr President. The aim of this proposal is to ensure that the legislation on the pre-trial investigation of military crimes is up-to-date and thus effective enforcement of criminal liability in the Defence Forces. After all, the background to this has been very unfortunate in public, and so it is a question of updating this current legislation. I would also like to highlight Article 38a. In future, the Defence Forces will have the right to receive from these authorities the necessary assistance to carry out the task of investigating crimes provided for in the Law on Military Discipline and Crime Prevention in the Defence Forces, with reference to the police, the Border Guard and Customs and their assistance to the Defence Forces. There was broad agreement in committee on this and the experts also agreed that the bill was necessary and good. It is, of course, always regrettable that such unfortunate cases require a change in the law when it is discovered that the previous law did not apply or that it did not apply. But this can be considered to be a very well-founded and pleasant law.
