ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 14/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — The general debate begins, Mr Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u2	Mr President! I am sorry that it was a little late to take the floor. — I would like to present the committee's report here and start by proposing that the provisional provisions for preventing the spread of the covid-19 epidemic be extended in this government proposal. The provisions concern specific hygiene obligations in the field of nutrition movements, passenger transport and other services and restrictions on activities where an epidemic situation so requires. It is also proposed to extend the provisions on the supervision of these obligations and on appeal. The proposal also proposes to clarify the definition of close contact of the provision on conditions for the use of premises intended for customers and participants, taking into account the differences between indoor and outdoor conditions in terms of risk of infection. The main purpose of the Government proposal is to strengthen the potential of local and regional authorities in a proactive and rapid manner to take action to prevent the spread of the corona virus and thus to protect the health of the population against covid-19, in a situation where the number of covid-19 infections would rise again. The aim is also to ensure the carrying capacity of the social and health services system. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers regulation to be justified in order to protect the health of the population and ensure the carrying capacity of the health care system. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also stated in its opinion that there are clearly acceptable grounds for regulation. The proposal proposes to amend the definition of close contact in Article 58d(4) of the Act on communicable diseases temporarily in force so that close contact would in future mean a person's presence face-to-face or within the same interior at a distance of less than 2 metres from each other for more than 15 minutes. This change would not require a distance of 2 metres to other persons in the area or functionally restricted outdoor spaces. The two-metre safety distance would therefore only apply to indoor operations. According to the presentation, the risk of infection in outdoor areas is significantly reduced compared to indoor areas where ventilation is inadequate and is closely maintained. The committee considers the proposal to be justified in this regard. The presentation enables events and services to be carried out outdoors in an appropriate manner based on a lower risk of infection. However, the committee notes that the categorical requirement of 2 metres in-house distance makes it difficult in practice to organise many activities. For example, it is virtually impossible for cinemas or concert halls to operate when a distance of 2 metres is required between customers in every direction. The explanatory memorandum of the draft law states that, in addition to the distance from the risk of infection, the size of the holding, the air conditioning and the face-to-face nature of the persons are important in parallel or successively. The committee notes that there is no equivalent requirement of 2 metres, for example, in restaurants or means of transport. In the Committee's view, the government should assess in further preparation and in the application of regulation whether the categorical safety requirement of 2 metres can be reduced by appropriate placement of designated seating positions, adequate ventilation, the use of face protectors and other hygiene measures. The Government's proposal proposes to extend some of the provisions of the Act on communicable diseases, subject to minor amendments, by introducing a new provisional law that would be in force until the end of this year. The proposal is based on a study by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the National Institute for Health and Welfare on the current and foreseeable situation of the epidemic. According to the Government's proposal, the epidemic situation at the end of the year cannot be predicted with sufficient precision at this stage so that the need for the extension of restrictions can be fully demonstrated in December 21. The proposal states, however, that it must be borne in mind that the threshold for the application of provisions which are more particularly lacking in fundamental rights is high, in which case the validity of these provisions does not in itself imply the introduction of restrictive measures. If the epidemic situation remained moderate in the autumn and winter 2021, the government's proposal would not allow for strong restrictive measures. At the same time, the committee itself wishes to emphasise the high threshold for the introduction of restrictions. The validity of these provisions does not in itself imply the introduction of restrictive measures, but the Government and the competent authorities are obliged to base their decisions on the necessity of the epidemic situation. In its report, the committee reiterates its previous position that the closure of food restaurants before 9 p.m. actually means the closure of several food restaurants. In the case of food restaurants, the closure regulation before 9 p.m. should therefore be behind a particularly high threshold. If the epidemic situation is so difficult that closure would be necessary before 9 p.m., the committee would prefer the Government to consider imposing an overall closure of restaurants on the basis of a separate law. In this way, restaurants would receive compensation for their losses through a clearer mechanism. Mr President! Temporary provisions on restrictions on the services provided by the Act on Diseases have been adopted in the event of a continuation of the epidemic by various government proposals. The committee draws serious attention to the fact that the provisions have become inconsistent both in terms of their regulatory mechanisms and in terms of the content of the restrictions. Restrictions on nutrition movements are laid down by Government decree, and the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency has jurisdiction over restrictions in transport services, whereas in other services the competent authority is, in principle, the Regional State Administrative Agency. The conditions for the introduction of restrictions in different sectors have also been regulated in different ways. Restrictions have been applied to different sectors at different stages of the epidemic. In particular, the cultural and event sectors and sports events have been subject to significantly stricter restrictions for a very long time than nutrition and transport services. Mr President! In the past, even in the case of restaurant restrictions, the Constitutional Committee and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health have required the Government to carry out a more fine examination of the region in terms of the necessary weight, given the large variations in the incidence of the virus in the province, hospital district and municipality. In its opinion on the present proposal, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also called on the Government to consider the possibility, for example, of narrowing the territorial scope of the division of regions further. The committee stresses that restrictions can, and should, affect different regions and sectors and various events or services in different ways, where there are sustainable grounds for such restrictions from the point of view of preventing the spread of the epidemic. However, these restrictions must form a logical whole in which the justification of the restrictions is linked to the risks associated with the spread of infections. The committee also proposes a statement on this. Mr President! Let me just say a few words about the measures that will enable events and services to be opened up. The committee expresses its concern, in particular, about restrictions on the cultural and event sectors, which have seriously damaged the business and services of these sectors and have been very long-term. Cultural and event services also play a key role in the well-being of people. The committee notes that the status of strict restrictive measures must be laid down in order to enable health-security measures to be taken. According to expert opinions, events and services could be organised safely from the point of view of combating the epidemic by requiring, in addition to hygiene requirements, for example, a corona certificate for a recent disease, negative test result or vaccination. In its opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also considered it essential that the introduction of a so-called 'coronapass' should also be seen as an essential part of the process of opening up society. A standard certificate, coordinated with the European counterpart, would indicate the applicant’s vaccination protection, negative test result or diseased coronavirus disease. The committee calls on the Government to speed up the work and introduction of such a certificate or passport. Mr President! This committee's report was not unanimous. There have been two objections to this, and they will certainly then be presented separately by the groups of both the Finns Party and the National Coalition Party. To close, the committee’s proposal for a statement is worded as follows: ‘The Commission requires that the government examines the epidemiological proportionality, equality and necessity of the various restrictions on the sectors concerned, as well as the measures necessary to correct the limitations’.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u3	Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u4	Mr President! We are all tired of the corona, but unfortunately it is still with us and the epidemic is not over yet. The main aim of the fixed-term articles of the Act on communicable diseases and their extension is to ensure that authorities are able to take steps to prevent the spread of the corona virus and thus to protect the health of the population and to ensure the carrying capacity of health care in a situation where the number of covid-19 infections would rise again. The possibilities granted by temporary powers to limit the opening hours, licenses and capacity of restaurants by Government decree continue, as well as the continuing hygiene obligations of customer premises and the last opportunity to close risky activities. These powers would continue until the end of the year. Although the situation is now significantly brighter than it was a few months ago, the authorities must have sufficient powers and means of limitation if the situation suddenly deteriorates, for example, as a result of new virus variants. At the same time, however, the committee's report highlights the high threshold for the introduction of restrictions. The validity of these provisions does not in itself imply the introduction of restrictive measures, but the Government and the competent authorities are obliged to set up decisions on the possible introduction of such restrictions in the context of an epidemic situation. Mr President! As a result of the amendment of the law, the distance requirements for outdoor events will be reduced and the 2 meter safety distance between participants will no longer be required for outdoor events. This is a legitimate and important relief and will help organisers of summer events. In the areas of the spreading and acceleration phase, the requirement for a distance of 2 m indoors is maintained. However, the committee notes in its report that the categorical requirement of 2 metres in-house distance makes it difficult in practice to organise many activities. For example, the operation of cinemas or concert halls is virtually impossible when a distance of 2 metres is required between customers in every direction. The explanatory memorandum of the draft law states that, in addition to the distance from the risk of infection, the size of the holding, the air conditioning and the face-to-face nature of the persons are important in parallel or successively. The committee notes that there is no corresponding 2 metre distance requirement in restaurants or transport equipment, for example. In the Committee's view, the government should assess in further preparation and guidance on the application of regulation whether the categorical safety interval requirement of 2 metres can be reduced by appropriate positioning of designated seats, adequate ventilation, the use of face protectors and other hygiene measures. Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health also pays serious attention to the unequal treatment of different sectors in the context of restrictive measures. In particular, the cultural and event sectors and sporting events have been subject to significantly more stringent restrictions for a very long time than, for example, restaurant activities or transport services without any acceptable grounds for differing treatment of the sectors in relation to the risk of spreading the disease. The example of this imbalance is that you can enjoy refreshments at the restaurant as long as there is no cultural program. If there are poetry statements in the dining room, the situation becomes illegal, even though everyone understands that the risk of infection does not change with the cultural programme. These activities are restricted by various paragraphs and decisions, and this regulation is, of course, only part of the whole package of restrictions. The overall scope of the restrictions and any limitation measures must be necessary and proportionate. In the view of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, it is a matter of proportionality that the restrictions are proportionate to the risk of infection. Moreover, proportionality means that there is consistency between the restrictions on different sectors of activity and on different types of events, services or facilities. The Committee stresses that restrictions can and should be applied to different regions and sectors and to different events or services in different ways, where there are sustainable grounds for such restrictions from the point of view of preventing the spread of the epidemic. However, these restrictions must form a logical whole in which the justification of the restrictions is linked to the risks associated with the spread of infections. The committee attached a strong statement to the report which ‘requires the government to examine the epidemiologicalproportionality, equality and non-requirement of the various restrictions on sectors’. Hopefully, this bias of restrictive measures and the unequal treatment of different sectors will be corrected as a matter of urgency in the update of the government's hybrid strategy for the corona on the table by steering the enforcement of the authorities and in the preparation of further legislation. In the opinion of the Left Alliance's Parliamentary Group, it is neither right nor reasonable for the cultural and event sector to be subject to stricter restrictions than other similar infectious risk activities. Mr President! In future, instead of preventing events, Focus should be translated into how events and events can be organised in a health-safe way. In the Netherlands, for example, Eurovisas were held in the weekend with health security and obvious success through testing, blocking and other arrangements. Well done, of course, at the Blind Channel in Oulu — a successful event in that sense too. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health also states that only strict restrictions should be imposed on the conditions for health-security measures. From the point of view of combating the epidemic, opportunities could be organised safely by requiring, in addition to hygiene requirements, for example, a corona certificate for a recent disease, a negative test certificate or vaccination. The Committee notes that the Government must speed up the widespread use of certificates of this kind and rapid testing in the safe organisation of events. The Committee also notes that the Regional State Administrative Agencies and other competent authorities should assess how restrictive decisions can be targeted so that, despite the restrictions, participation in events and the use of services would be allowed through the abovementioned certificates and sufficiently reliable rapid testing. Mr President! Restrictions must be necessary and proportionate. The conditions of necessity may change as vaccinations progress. Although the disease is still among us, vaccinations reduce serious forms of disease and deaths and the risk of overloading health care. In the view of the Committee, the relative importance of the incidence limit values for the need for restrictions in a changing situation should be monitored and re-evaluated. Mr President! One way or another, Korona and I will live for a long time. We need to protect our lives and health, but we also need to protect our health from human suffering, financial problems and health and well-being. From the point of view of society's overall well-being and confidence in government activities, it is important that the restrictions are — and are perceived as such — fair and proportionate, and
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u5	Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u6	Mr President! The Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that the government's proposal is a good one. The proposal aims, among other things, to create restrictions for the restaurant sector so that the opening up of society after a pandemic would not lead to the spread of the pandemic again. However, the proposal is tough, unnecessarily insecure for the industry and possibly even counterproductive. The Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that strict restrictions would be justified if there were to be a risk of a clear deterioration in the epidemiological situation, such as the risk of a more aggressive spread of viral variament. Such objectives and the conditionality of strict restrictions should therefore be highlighted both in the text of the law and in the communication to the public and to the officials who apply them. This would reduce the uncertainty of operators in the sector and the risk of unequal treatment between authorities. Mr President! It is proposed that the provisional provisions be extended until the end of the current year. That's six months, which is a long time in a changing disease and vaccine situation. The Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that it is not sensible to keep restrictions in place in the interests of certainty, but to base them on the prevailing situation at any given time. We therefore believe that the period of validity should be reduced and it would be justified to provide for it until the end of September, i.e. at the same time as the fixed-term sections on unemployment security legislation. The Group of the Party of European Socialists stresses that many restaurants have ideas to minimise the risk of infection, for example, through the planning of customer routes, facilities and interior decorations. Air cleaning equipment, air conditioning, disinfection and other factors should influence the severity of restrictions on a company-by-company basis. Now companies are not rewarded for taking initiatives on their own, but all companies are treated in the same way regardless of their contribution. The Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that the need for a safety interval in the proposal only indoors is a welcome change. Scientific evidence of infectious risks in outdoor areas is limited. For this reason, restrictions should be removed or at least significantly reduced from, for example, terrace-type drinking bars and food restaurants. Especially with the summer, this could make it almost normal business. In practice, the closing time at restaurants ensures that dinner is not going to take place. The Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that since food restaurants sit at a table and do not drink alcohol or sing karaoke at the end of a drink, the risks are so low that the limitation period should be clearly extended. With regard to restaurants, the Group of the Greens proposes to postpone the deadline by four hours from the current 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes that the time limit for the granting of drinks is too strict and it would be justified to postpone it by three hours so that, for example, restaurants which are forced to stop at 5 p.m. would be allowed to continue to do so until 8 p.m. This would make it possible, so like a profitable business. Mr President! Close contact restrictions do not take into account, for example, the potential use of masks, corona vaccination, diseased disease or negative test results. Article 58d of the Act was proposed in the expert hearing. The following new article shall be inserted: ‘The decision onmea-tactics cannot oblige the holder or (1) a certificate of corrosive vaccination, disease or fresh negative test result for entry into the holding; or 2) use of mouth and nose guard during residence.’ The Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that the amendment should be supported. A year ago, interest-bearing passports and interest-free areas were discussed, where consumers and businesses could operate a little more freely. Such arrangements have already been tried abroad. If the interest rate becomes a constant problem of low intensity, such measures are in practice the only option for opening up several sectors. The subsidies paid in 2020 covered approximately 11 per cent and 5 per cent of the loss of turnover in catering and accommodation activities. The size and experience of the compensation from other countries should be compared and assessed to determine whether existing compensation practices are sufficient to safeguard the interests of entrepreneurs, subcontracting chains and financiers. As interest rate measures are prolonged, the financial situation of companies is also deteriorating, which should in fact increase over time in order to remain neutral. Mr President! I will make the motions for amendment to paragraph 1 of protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u7	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u8	Madam President! The committee has done a good job of considering these measures to limit increases and also the viability and success of companies in this difficult, challenging time. Thank you for this. I would like to make a few comments on these findings of the committee. Of course, the first thing that comes to mind for all of us is how these companies could be rewarded for being — and — creative and health-safe. In my opinion, it is not right for all companies to be lumped in the same basket, because some companies in the restaurant industry are able to provide a safe environment for all customers through a creative approach. This applies not only to restaurant entrepreneurs but also to leisure and cultural operators, such as organisers of concerts and festivals. Many of us are reminded of last summer when event entrepreneurs cancelled a race of different festivals and concerts. However, the exceptions were entrepreneurs who, with a smaller number of people being allowed to come to the scene, took that risk and arranged various events. One example is the Festival in Seinäjoki, called "Money" which, first of all, had a lot of headlines about how people did not operate there securely, and yet the result was that there was no known corona infection there either. Events organised in the open air, regardless of the presence of thousands of people, can be arranged safely if entrepreneurs are given the opportunity and opportunity to do so. In that sense, at this stage, such prejudices should be put aside and looked again. For example, gym operators: it has been completely unreasonable for all these months to bundle gym entrepreneurs with a risk rating where coronavirus infections spread. Well, then, how do we justify this? We, as representatives, remember that a few weeks ago THL and whether it was a hospital district in the Helsinki region published a list of companies — or not companies by name, but areas — where there was a huge number of gym infections, and I took up this issue. Ever since then, I have been trying to find out from THL and the health care districts that show me the results of even one of the gyms, where you have a sure chain of infected more than one of the gym customers who have been there at the moment. This correspondence has been going on for quite a long time now, and there is still no data that can be verified that there has been more than one infection there. It has all been assumed — when the person has indicated that he or she has received it at the gym — but it has not been possible to verify it. And this worries me that in the media it is very easy to name a sector completely — that it is dangerous to go to health, for example. In that sense, I would like to see responsibility for THL, responsibility for the medical districts and for all those who publish these results on where these viruses are spreading and to what extent. If there is no certainty as to where they are spreading, then such results should not be made public at all. Mr President! The second point that is striking is the fact that the report calls for a corona pass to enable events to take place. I fully understand this goodwill here. It is important to seek to open events and restaurants and various facilities that normally cannot be accessed if there is a high risk. However, I think that we should proceed with great caution here, because if we make such a categorical distinction, that we create special services or access to services for people who have evidence of vaccination, proof of negative test results or that they have suffered from a virus, then we can quickly proceed with time to such a practice that, without being aware of it, we divide people into good and bad citizens. I'm sure this has been a matter of reflection here. I am not in this committee, but I am sure you have considered this ethical aspect too, and I would have liked to have heard more about how to ensure that such a division between the two groups of citizens does not come unwittingly into this country. Mr President! One more observation. This applies to this issue of border security. The committee has therefore taken note of the need to put the border security system in order, and it is mentioned here that there is a need to establish a regulatory, clearly-guided procedure for the surveillance of health at the border. Well, this is a good observation, but do we have to say, in more than a year from the start of the coronavirus pandemic, that there is a need for such a measure? I would have liked the government to have done everything in its power for this year to ensure that this regulation has already been adopted, that the border can operate in a health-safe manner and prevent people from entering this country who have no proof that they are not carrying the virus — as has happened several times from different countries with regard to the collection of variants. Mr President! The end result, however, is that we have learned a lot from this pandemic, Parliament as well as the government, and from now on we will certainly succeed better, but we must remember that we are responsible for the jobs, the entrepreneurs and the condition of the people who want to take care of both mental health and the basic condition in the midst of this pandemic, so that we do not ruin them in the midst of this legislation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u9	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u10	Madam President! We are dealing with the extension of the infectious disease laws until the end of this year and the amendment of Article 58d. The Group of the European People's Party believes it is important to create a view and predictability of the transition towards a normal place for entrepreneurs. The extension of the temporary provisions restricting the business activities of the Act on Diseases sends the opposite message. It is a source of hope and uncertainty for entrepreneurs whose economic and mental resilience has long been under test due to restrictive measures. In the assessment and view of the Assembly, the proposal does not take into account the improved disease situation, the self-monitoring measures taken by restaurant and sports entrepreneurs, the coverage of vaccination and the overall health and economic and continuing damage to public health. The Coalition Party sees that the duration of the proposal is disproportionately long and the proposed law bundles under the same law too many different fields of activity, regardless of their individuality. The restrictions on indoor spaces are too severe and will be excessive to discipline both the restaurant and the sports and well-being sectors. The content of the Act also affects the opportunities of the event sector to organise events. Mr President! In addition to general hygiene guidelines, several companies have taken health-safe measures to minimise the risk of infection. These have been completely ignored. In the case of restaurants, restrictions have in practice prevented dinner restaurants from operating completely. In practice, the closing time at restaurants ensures that dinner is not taken. Almost all tools that would enable safe operation have not been introduced. Four additional hours at the proposed time would enable action at any level. Regulation should be amended with regard to the restrictions on opening hours, delivery times and customer numbers so as to create opportunities for comprehensive business operations. The restrictions imposed by the Government's proposal on clock times are no longer necessary in the form proposed and with strict restrictions on opening and giving. This would be feasible by means of corona safe practices, for example by relaxing the opening and issuing restrictions at the beginning of the evening. It is also good to note that there is virtually no evidence of infection from food restaurants. The plight of restaurant, sports and cultural and event entrepreneurs could also be alleviated by enabling people to access the premises for persons with corona certificates, disease, corona vaccination protection or a recent test result. There have also been ambiguities in the law that have been raised in the opinion of the Regional State Administrative Agency. The law has created confusion, entrepreneurs have been surprised — what must be followed and when — and the telephones of the Regional State Administrative Agency have been congested. There has also been a lack of clarity as to how the law is interpreted. The Regional Administrative Agency proposed amendments to the law, but they have largely not been amended to this end. The premises could be kept open with interest rate security, taking into account the size of the space in relation to the number of persons allowed, as suggested earlier by the Coalition Party. The Coalition Party considers it justified that the strict jurisdiction under Article 58g should not be maintained at all in the light of the favourable trend of the epidemic, where the prevention of infection is also possible by less restrictive means. In addition to the epidemiological effects, the Coalition Party considers it essential that restrictive measures take into account health, social and economic impacts. Until now, they have not been taken into account at all. The overall situation of the disease has also changed significantly with the coverage of the vaccine and the epidemiological knowledge of the disease. In political decision-making, greater importance should be attached to the disadvantages, economic and social consequences of the overall deterioration in welfare caused by restrictions. It is of paramount importance that any future restriction measures must be necessary and proportionate in all situations, and any less restrictive, less harmful overall limitation possibilities must always first be exploited. Mr President! The Coalition Party also highlights the importance and importance of predictability in relation to restrictions on business activities. It is unreasonable for both business, entrepreneur and employee to know about restrictions until the last minute. The Assembly considers it necessary that, should restrictions be extended or reintroduced, it is necessary to ensure that companies are compensated for the damage caused by the restrictions and that compensation mechanisms cover the entire duration of the restrictions. It is proposed that the provisional provision be extended until the end of the current year. Given the changing disease and vaccine situation, it is far too long. It makes no sense to keep restrictions in place just in case. They must be based on the prevailing outlook at any given time. The term of validity of the Act should therefore be shortened, and the National Coalition Party proposes the same thing as the Finns Party has suggested that the term of validity be reduced until 30 September. As the closure of the premises is also a last resort, we have proposed a change to section 58g, which raises the incidence of infections per 100,000 inhabitants during the last 14 days of the hospital district for which the information is available to 100 cases instead of the current 50. We also have proposals for statements, which I will then present later.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u11	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u12	Mr President! I support the amendment made by Mr Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u13	Congressman Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u14	Madam President! Thank you to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for a very good report, and also to Mr Sarkkinen for his excellent speech. Good points have also been made by others. The interest is still here, but the situation is very different from that of a year ago. We know more about this disease and we know how it spreads and how it is treated. We are much better equipped to trace and test, but above all we have vaccines and vaccinations are progressing well. They could go even faster if we had perhaps been a little more comprehensive with regard to these adenovirus vector vaccines, weighing risks, harms and benefits, but above all they are moving forward, and all of this must be seen in how this disease is controlled. The interest rate is a serious and dangerous disease, and that is what this proposal is all about. But the longer the restrictions continue in some form, the deeper the scars they leave in this society. That is why such a comprehensive, balanced risk management is highlighted, with different benefits and disadvantages being constantly weighed in the light of the best possible information from a long-term and short-term perspective, and the need for it is emphasised by this proposal. Such enabling legislation places particular emphasis on the responsibility to continuously assess the necessity and proportionality in the light of its best knowledge. In a liberal society, freedom of movement, assembly and industry is a fundamental starting point and an absolute value, and every restriction must be extremely well-founded and strictly limited.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u15	Congressman Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u16	Mr President! That is where I presented the committee's report a moment ago, and I was thinking of saying a few words, in addition to a few personal thoughts on this continuation of the Act on communicable diseases. I would start by saying that I believe that the government has been very successful in managing the corona epidemic and in managing this whole. It has benefited all Finns. In the end, if you think of the fallout of our economy too, the fact that we are able and able to control the epidemic will help to make sure that the big picture of the economy is doing well too. But now the coming months will show how the government is in a way able to get out of this epidemic and the restrictions that have been imposed on the spread of this virus, and I can say that this will certainly be at least as difficult a task as the imposition of restrictive measures: how can it manage to dismantle these measures in a controlled, comprehensive way, to create a long-term perspective for those sectors which are in both economic and mental distress because of these restrictive measures? It is the main concern of the moment that the tourism industry, for example, has not been able to produce a view for a year as to when it will be able to get out of these restrictions, how to travel to Finland next winter, for example, and when there is no such prospect, it has not been possible to sell these products and services to the world. At the same time, it has been possible to act differently in key competitor countries. That is why I would like to point out that there is room for improvement here too, and I will also take two other aspects in which I think we should review the restrictions in a new way. They have already been expressed, perhaps indirectly, in this committee report, but also in Mr Sarkkinen's speech and in many other speeches that have been made here. The first is that, once these restrictive measures have been introduced, people will certainly understand that they want to protect people's lives and health, but in situations where people, in their own sense, no longer recognise it as a link between the protection of the virus and the restriction measures, or they are totally disproportional in different sectors of activity, such restrictive measures are likely to undermine the legitimacy of these measures and its law, the legitimacy of the people. Let me take an example: how can it be that there can legally be 50 people in a restaurant, but if someone goes in there with a guitar case or utters a poem, it becomes an illegal opportunity? It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u19	Congressman Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u20	Värderade Talman! Vi har i dag i social- och älsovårdsutskottet fått färdigt vårt betankande om ändringar i lagen om smittsamma sjukdomar, om en förlänning av bestammelserna till årets slut. Behandlingen av lagförslaget har inte variants lätt. Trots att vi vill öppna upp samhället igen effect coronapandemin måste det ske i små steg. Då vaccintäckningen blir tillräckligt stor är situationen förhopppningsvis sådan att vi kan börja återgå till ett normalt liv. Då regeringen gjort upp restrictionner, Vilket variants nödvändigt, har det ändå uppstått ett läge där kulturfältet och evenemangsbranchen hamnat i en omöjlig och orättvis sits. På grund av de strikta kraven på framför allt minaavstånd personer emellan i publicka inomhusevenemang är de realisticska och ekonomiska öjligheterna att påbörja verksamheten igen näst intil obefintliga.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u21	Thank you, Madam President-in-Office. We have heard excellent contributions from the government. It is a great pity that I myself am a representative of the opposition, but I very much urge you to put into practice the speeches you have made there on the government's side. In particular, Mr Salmon's proposals and excellent comments remained in my mind. However, I disagree when it was argued here that the government has managed to manage this other side in an excellent way, i.e. the health side. I would say that the government has not quite come to such a logical conclusion on either side: that this disease is now being killed from society or that it is being promoted in the interests of companies and also in the interests of jobs. More than a year ago, we Finns in Peru proposed that society should be shut down once and for all to kill the virus, and then take that strict border control over the virus leak and then companies would be able to stay open all the time and, furthermore, that disease in society would not spread and be prepared in advance for the fact that if these more deadly forms of disease were to enter traffic in that world, they would not be able to get to Finland either, because we would have a very strict screening at the border and the testing would be in order. But this was not wanted to be followed, but we have gone with this kind of half-half-solution, and therefore companies suffer, the disease roars and people are constantly re-entering the hospital and away from their jobs when they get the corona. Madam President! You might wish there was some logic behind the government's dealings. Good speeches have been made here in favour of how people in bars at the moment, what they're looking at, go around, but then again, when it comes to food restaurants like this, they have to close up even if they are much more health-safe. On the other hand, when you look at this very example of the Euro-Visa scenario, which Mr Sarkkinen made excellent mention of, there was a whole arena full of people, and by some means they had resolved this how it was handled in a health-safe way. Somehow I would see that the government could take the lead from there, if they did not agree to go into this proper exit strategy that we have presented. If we continue along the current chosen path, then we would then keep places open, but in some logical way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u22	Congressman Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u23	Thank you, Madam President. I support the proposals made by Mr Juuso. Now that I have the floor, I could say a few words at the same time. Here again, we are dealing with the temporary amendments to the Act on communicable diseases, which concern restaurants, the cultural and event sectors, the sports sector and transport operators. It is proposed that the law be extended until the end of this year. I read through the objections made by both the Finns and the Coalition Party in the committee, and I must say that they made a great deal of sense. Today, almost half of the population over 16 years of age have been vaccinated and the incidence rates are falling. From early autumn we are likely to be in a situation where all those willing have received the first vaccination and the second round of vaccinations are well on the way. But what is the government doing? The positions expressed by the committees on the necessity and precision of the restrictions are not being respected, nor is the opposition listening to experts or entrepreneurs and workers in the restricted areas who have been deprived of their livelihood for months. It seems that the government and the STM would like to continue to limit the mere restriction of pleasure to activities where the risk of infection is minimal and almost all customers have been vaccinated. Madam President! I would ask Minister Kiuru, but unfortunately he is prevented from coming here, so I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the board: when will you be prepared to take account of the need of restaurant entrepreneurs, sports entrepreneurs and cultural and event operators, to listen to them and cooperate with them in order to find corona safe solutions to open up their activities? What is the risk of a person already vaccinated going to a gym, a concert or a nearby bar drinking a beer at eight o’clock in the evening instead of rushing straight to the diner at four o’clock? Madam President! I would like to finish by saying a few more details about restaurants, a very brutal fact: Finland has now found about 92,000 corona infections in over a year. When the number of infections was about 88,000, it was an average of 1,400 per week. Thus, when there are about 13500 restaurants in Finland, there are 0.1 cases per restaurant and per week — one case per nine weeks if all Finnish infections had left the restaurants. According to THL, however, two and a half per cent of the infections come from restaurants, i.e. 0,0025... [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u26	Congressman Mari Holopainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u27	Madam President! It is good that efforts have now finally been made to make a better distinction between the outside and the interior. And I believe that there is one major flaw which is still in force at the moment, which means that what is happening outside is clearly less risky than what is happening inside these premises, at least according to the opinion received by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. A researcher in the field pointed out that about 19 times more likely to be infected indoors than outdoors, and the risk of outdoor infections is indeed relatively low. In other words, it would certainly be important for this research data to finally, even now, be available for these outdoor areas in particular. Of course, then, this means that indoors inevitably risk infection if someone has a corona and there people are close to each other. But it has to be noted that now our vaccination coverage begins to rise very quickly and the situation is now looking quite smooth. And we may not at least have realised the worst risks that were sometimes thought to arise with regard to these transmutation viruses, but it is clear that this too must be followed up. I am thinking that, if this is the case for a few months now, the summer will hopefully take place at this good, low-level infection situation, then during that time we will still have the vaccination coverage so well that we will be able to catch up with normal life. Indeed, the cultural and event sector has now suffered excessively, and this has been the subject of attention from Parliament. It is very important that we also have this supplementary budget, the additional funding, in the cultural sector, and it will certainly be important in the future to find out how these structures will better ensure that there are no interlopers there. There are, of course, a number of shortcomings in these support mechanisms in this area at the moment, depending partly on which ministry this activity and its support is thought to be under.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u28	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u29	Madam President! I am sorry that I accidentally interrupted Mrs Lundén's excellent speech. I just wanted to say that you can see that the locals are very close. Personally, I am not in the municipal elections, but on the basis of the speeches that have been made, which I have listened to about this amendment to the Act on communicable diseases, I say that for some time in this Chamber no such critical speeches have been heard about the government. Of course, I can well understand how this preparatory work is going here in Finland with regard to parliamentarianism, that is, there in the government ministers are making proposals, and the representatives of the government parties are not actually on those tables to shape these proposals. But if you representatives of the government parties always vote through those criticisms, that means that the government can continue to prepare on the basis of what it has prepared in the past, and then your criticism does not actually end up there in the preparation of the government. If I understand correctly, we shall vote on this motion, which you have just criticised, after what I have said or, at the latest, after what Mr Berg has said. As representatives, you have the opportunity to vote down proposals that you feel are not good, and if there is a message to the ministers of your own government parties that such proposals cannot be drawn through but must be amended, which you yourself have just spoken about as MPs in this Chamber. And from then on, when such presentations fall, the ministers of your own parties will be forced to take note of the presentations and comments you have made out loud. Let us see in a moment if you will vote in favour of the performances you have just called bad. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u30	Congressman Berg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u31	Mr President! There's been a good conversation. This is a difficult matter, it is not the first time in our Chamber, and we have dealt with it many times in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and various experts have been consulted on this issue on several occasions from different angles. I think we would all like to see all these restrictions removed. And the government has also sought to do so with these numerous corona-related legislative proposals that, by the end of the summer at the latest, and hopefully next autumn, there would be a situation where we do not have to put this law presented today into practice at all or that it does not have to be applied at all. That is the starting point for all of us. But we all know that, for a year and a half now, unfortunately, we have had to legislate and the government has had to impose regulations on this interest rate, that this disease has been very treacherous. The disease situation has changed very rapidly in regional and national terms. I know that, for example, we have In Vaasa, there was a very high spike in the incidence, which, as I recall, took place at some 400. According to information I've just seen in Central Ostrobothnia, I think we were there in 217. Then we have areas, such as the neighbouring region of Central Ostrobothnia, where I come from, where the incidence is currently 12. And in these areas it should be noted that, for example, with this Article 58d, which refers to these safety distances, and 58 g, which refers to possible closures, we have a large number of these areas where the incidence is so low that they do not need to be applied at the moment, and that is a very good thing. But since this disease situation or corona has proved to be changing very quickly and we do not know what kind of autumn we will have, I think it makes more sense that we have a frame, a background law, what the government will be able to react more quickly to those situations if there are similar spikes in a region and if it also rises to over 200 in the autumn so that we do not have to take the whole bill through Parliament, which may take two weeks. And by the time we have been able to re-examine that law, it may be too late for that increase in incidence. And that is why it is good that we really have this law in place, so that the government can intervene more quickly in the autumn in a possible situation, that, unfortunately, the incidence in some area would rise in the autumn, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u32	Congressman Mari Holopainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u33	Madam President! Mr Berg has the floor. Indeed, it is worth noting that we have now had demands on the table here all year, and also on the opposition's direction, that specific measures are needed instead of, for example, having such a large package of restrictions on movement — which I myself did not consider reasonable, and that was not the case here in Parliament. This is precisely where we are going to try to limit those close contacts and encounters if there is a situation where that legislation is needed. If specific measures are required and measures are required that really address the situation in which infections occur, then it would certainly be worthwhile to support such measures. I do not believe that all measures can be opposed if we also want to be prepared for the need to limit the progression of the disease.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u34	The vote will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and the proceedings shall be adjourned and the session shall resume at 7:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u35	The sitting adjourned at 7:23 p.m. and the second item in the order of business is now resumed. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u36	Mr President! I will make amendments in line with the protests of the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u37	Madam President! I support the proposals made by Mr Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u38	Mr President! I will make a motion for amendment in accordance with Amendment No 1 by the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u39	Madam President! I support Mr Juuso's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u40	Mr President! I will make a motion for amendment in accordance with Amendment No 1 by the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u41	Madam President! I support Mr Juuso's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u42	Mr President! I would like to make a proposal to amend the section following the objection of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u43	Mr President! I support Mr Laiho's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u44	Mr President! I will make amendments in line with Amendment No 1 by the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u45	Madam President! I support the proposals made by Mr Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u46	Mr President! I am submitting an amendment to this entry into force provision in accordance with Amendment No 1 by the Finns of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-25-ps-64.u47	Madam President! I support Mr Juuso's proposal.
