ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-02-ps-1.u1	The plenary session will begin. As an elder from my age as a Member of Parliament, I shall be chairing this first part-session of Parliament until, according to Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament has elected the President and two Vice-Presidents and they have given Parliament a solemn assurance.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-02-ps-1.u2	The election of the President, which, like the election of the Vice-Presidents, is now followed by compliance with the provisions of Article 34(2) of the Finnish Constitution and Articles 5 and 6 of the Parliamentary Statute. So the election will be delivered on a full-time basis. Representatives shall bring their ballots to the urn according to the roll call to be made in alphabetical order. It is noted that because of the corona epidemic, the parliamentary groups have agreed that the elections will take place in a reduced composition. Where appropriate, the name of the candidate shall also be identified with sufficient precision using the first name. As assistants for checking ballots and counting votes in the election, I would ask the following representatives: Mrs Salonen, Ms Tavio, Ms Mykkänen and Mr Kurvinen. I note that the votes cast are not made public.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-02-ps-1.u3	The result of the vote shall be read.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-02-ps-1.u4	When Mr Vehviläinen has received more than half of the votes cast in the election, he has been elected President of Parliament for the parliamentary year 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-02-ps-1.u5	Now comes the election of the first Vice-President. The election will be delivered on a full-time basis. Representatives will bring their ballots to the urn in alphabetical order. In the election, I request the following representatives: Ilmari Nurminen, Kaisa Juuso, Sari Sarkomaa and Eeva Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-02-ps-1.u6	The result of the vote shall be read.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-02-ps-1.u7	When Mr Filatov has received more than half of the votes cast in the election, he has been elected as the first Vice-President of Parliament for the parliamentary year 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-02-ps-1.u8	Now comes the election of another Vice-President. The election will be delivered on a full-time basis. Representatives will bring their ballots to the urn in alphabetical order. As assistants in this election, I ask the following representatives: Kristiina Salonen, Arja Juvonen, Jukka Kopra and Hanna-Leena Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-02-ps-1.u9	The result of the vote shall be read.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-02-ps-1.u10	When Mr Eerola has received more than half of the votes cast in the election, he has been elected second Vice-President of Parliament for the parliamentary year 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-02-ps-1.u11	I now ask the President and the Vice-Presidents each in turn to give the House Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure. the solemn declaration provided for in the Treaty.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-02-ps-1.u12	I, Anu Helena Vehviläinen, assure you that, according to my powers as President, I defend the right of the Finnish people and parliament according to the Constitution. Jag Anu Helena Vehviläinen försäkrar att jag som talman effecter all min förmåga skall försvara finska folkets och riksdagens rättigheter enligt constitutionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-02-ps-1.u13	I, Tarja Katariina Filatov, assure you that, according to my powers as President, I defend the right of the Finnish people and parliament according to the Constitution. Jag Tarja Katariina Försäkrar att jag som talman effecter all min förmåga skall försvara finska folkets och riksdagens rättigheter enligt constitutionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-02-ps-1.u14	I Juho Seppo Antero Eerola assure you that, according to my powers as President, I defend the right of the Finnish people and parliament according to the Constitution. Jag Juho Seppo Antero Eerola försäkrar att jag som talman effecter all min förmåga skall försvara finska folkets och riksdagens rättigheter enligt constitutionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-02-ps-1.u15	I now ask the President-in-Office to take his place in Parliament and to take action.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-02-ps-1.u16	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Ärade ricksdagsledamoter! On behalf of my own and the elected Vice-Presidents, I warmly thank you for the confidence you have shown us. It is an honour for us to do our work worthy of your trust. Jag vill på mina egna och vice talmännens vägnar varmt tacka er för det förtroende ni har visat oss. Det är en hederssak för oss att uppfylla det förtroendet. The Korona virus has held the world for about a year. Here in Finland we will be starting another corona-filled parliament tomorrow. The virus has also had a great deal to do with the functioning of Parliament: both the issues under discussion and our working methods. We can agree that Parliament has done very well in dealing with corona-related regulations and additional budgets. In this context, I would like to thank the committees which have also been discussing the government's proposal for amendments to the Act on communicable diseases during the recess. Among other things, the jointly agreed reduced formations in this Chamber, the introduction of telework and other exceptional practices have secured the functioning of Parliament by the end of the parliament. The exceptional situation has called for particular flexibility for the opposition. I thank you for putting health safety ahead of your parliamentary rights. It is clear that corona restrictions and unusual practices will determine our work at least during the beginning of the spring season. I wish all of us, in a difficult situation, patience and civilized tolerance. Together with the parliamentary services, we will also focus on security issues related to Parliament this winter. The aim is to strengthen Parliament as an institution and to secure the peace of work of representatives and all those working here. På hela talmanpresidies vägnar önskar jag er kraft, visdom och älsa i ert arbete för alla finländares ästa. — Tack. On behalf of the Bureau as a whole, I wish you strength, wisdom and health in your work for the benefit of the Finns. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-02-ps-1.u17	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to announce that the opening of the 2021 Parliament will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, 3 February 2021, at 2 p.m. in the Parliament House, due to the corona virus epidemic, without an audience. Neither are Members of Parliament taking part in the opening on the ground. The opening ceremony and the Ecumenical Celebration service beginning at 12.00 p.m. can be followed as a webcast.
