ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Ladies and gentlemen, please. At this point I would like to say that, even if, according to preliminary information, Mr Henriksson is presenting this government proposal, he has indicated that, for reasons beyond his control, he has had a travel barrier. Because of our congestion situation, we estimate that this referral debate will take place in any case at this point. — First floor, Mr Kiuru, Mr Pauli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u2	Madam President! A very important bill from the government, and it is also a pity that the Minister is not presenting it. But we can do a demonstration of the opposition here. First of all, the proposal proposes to include in the marriage law provisions allowing for compulsory termination of a marriage by abolishing it. And what does this forced marriage mean? In short: without the free will of another, the pressure is imposed on the marriage, and this pressure may be applied to women as well as to men, children as to adults, those living in the home country as to those living abroad in part or in part. A very typical situation is that a girl with an immigrant background is married to a man living abroad against her own will. The motion is important, in the right direction. This is about human rights, as is often the case here in the Chamber. There are some shortcomings or improvements here. First of all, if I leave the records of the Government Programme, the Government Programme records say that ‘there is a requirement to allow the execution of marriages and to clarify theircrimination’. Well, first of all, this government proposal does not allow for annulment or criminalisation — that is, the government acts against the government programme, but we are already used to it. [MikkoCurrent Call] Then I'll take it from here... When, of course, the government's proposal has been in the consultation, for example, the Federation of Women's Organisations and the Monika Women's Federation have estimated that this lack of annulment is an unfortunate deficiency in the rights of the victim in this proposal. And I would also like to point out that Mrs Kauma has introduced a legislative initiative during the last parliamentary term, 2019, in which both this possibility of annulment and criminalisation have been on the table. So there are good foundations if we want to use them — and hopefully they will be used — in the committee. So there is no crime title in Finland for forced marriage and there is no such thing as forced marriage. If the punishment is to be applied for, it must leave there through trafficking in human beings, gross trafficking in human beings or coercion. And when, in those cases and in this case, you have to go through the crime of the plaintiff, of course, it puts considerable pressure on the victim, because there may be great pressure from the family or religious reference group.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u5	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u6	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! This abolition of forced marriages is, in principle, an important step in the rights of girls. As Mr Kiuru pointed out earlier, we would be prepared in the assembly to cancel out even harder — not just this repeal, but to take it further, and Mr Kiuru made this point very well. After all, this introduces a change to the marriage law that would enable a forced marriage to be dissolved by cancelling it. Forced marriage here is a marriage in which one or both spouses have not been able to influence the marriage or the choice of spouse. The difference with divorce in this proposal would be that, as a result of the annulment of the marriage, the spouse’s marital status would not have subsequently ‘divorced’ but would, in fact, have returned to the pre-marital situation. MrHenriksson stated that this is an important message that our legal order does not accept by In Finland, we have had more victims of forced marriage in recent years. Experts from Victim Support Finland and the system for assisting victims of trafficking in human beings have expressed concern that these numbers have increased significantly. Victim Support Finland must help some 50 victims of forced marriage, and 137 victims of forced marriage were victims of forced marriage in the system of assistance for victims of trafficking under the Ministry of the Interior last summer. In fact, it is about 100 people more than at the end of 2018, and the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that we have more forced marriages, the more immigrants there are from cultures where forced marriages take place. I was wondering when we in the assembly had previously argued that begging should be banned. At the time, constitutional experts Martin Schein and Ojanen said that begging cannot be denied because it is directed only at a particular ethnic group. I would have asked the Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson, how this legislation differs from the will of the coalition to ban begging by legislation which was therefore found to be contrary to human rights because it was targeted at a particular ethnic group. Well, now that we look at the justifications of this law presented by Henriksson, here it is stated on page 5 that ‘marriage and forced marriages can be grouped in different ways’, and in this presentation three different groups are drawn up:foreign nationals from abroad,formigrating from the country of origin to the country of origin,formergers from the country of origin,formergers from the country of We must now ask Mr Scheinin and Mr Ojasen that, when this has already passed at least the first stage in the interpretation of the Constitution, can we not now take forward this objective of the Convention in order to prohibit begging, since these do not differ in any way from the fact that this legislation, although it does concern Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Heino and all the other Finns, is targeted at certain ethnic groups, as is also mentioned in this proposal. There are no precise data on the number of forced marriages in Finland, but the numbers have been increasing all along. After all, forced marriage may also be the case that a young person living in Finland is sent abroad for the purpose of marriage, and this is also the case here. I would also like to ask the Minister: why would this be recognised only for a particular reason if one of the spouses has lived in Finland at the time of marriage, why is there such a gap in this whole? And it must also be borne in mind, Mr President, that a large proportion of these cases are blacked out because of fear, threat and pressure from the family or family, which means that girls are afraid to react to these situations and bring these things up. Forced marriage, Mr President, is often linked to honour-related violence and its fear. The victim may also be rejected, discriminated against by his community if the situation is addressed, if he or she tries to get out of forced marriage or avoids it. Mr President! Unfortunately, when I do not receive an answer to these questions because of the obstruction of the Minister's presence here, I propose that this matter be left on the table until next Tuesday 26 October 2021 in plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u7	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u8	Mr President! I would like to suggest that this issue should be dealt with today in the second plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u9	Let me now turn to the list of speakers. — Mr Keto-Hovinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the government is proposing that the law on marriage should include provisions allowing for the abolition of forced marriage, and this is particularly important for the protection of girls and women and for the strengthening of women's rights in society. I certainly support Mr Heinonen's proposal to put this on the table so that the Minister is present. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u11	Here I say that, in fact, I should have done so right away that we should only be discussing this table. Now there is one supported proposal, and now we are only talking about putting it on the table. — — — — Congressman Werner.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u12	Madam President! I support Mr Ovaska's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u13	Like this. We have two supported proposals here for table setting, and...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u14	I think it is very important that we should be able to deal with this in the presence of the Minister. I too, as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, have a few questions about the preparation of the minister. But now I want to make sure of that time: The Minister will not be gone any longer so that, at that time, surely — if anyone has any information — the Minister will be able to attend? Well, it's no use if we have another... Or are we just going to have to sit down again? Does anyone have any information on whether the Minister will be available at that time at the proposed time? — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u15	Congressman Rantanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u16	Mr President! I think it is particularly important that we have a minister here in charge of this government proposal. This is not quite simple or unproblematic on the basis of a statement of opinion. In fact, I would also like to hear from the Minister that, although many human rights agreements and international agreements have been used here in the last two years as grounds for doing different things, this proposal does not comply with the Istanbul Convention and does not follow the recommendations and comments made by GREVIO. In that sense, it would be good to have an answer to these issues, and in addition to this recognition of a marriage of under 18 years of age abroad in Finland. These are quite big questions, so I would be happy to have the Minister present.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u17	Now we are only discussing this table setting date. — Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u21	Congressman Heinonen, and putting it on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u22	Yes, Madam President! — I personally do not see any kind of government-opposition issue here. We support the government's proposal. We would certainly be taking it a little further away, and that is why I would understand that this counter-proposal is being put on the table, that there is an urgent second sitting today, that we should suspend it and start again if it were to be a deliberate delay or to make progress more difficult. That is not what this is about, but we would like the Minister to present a good proposal for once, and we would like to thank him for this proposal, but also to raise questions which have already been raised by this proposal in this debate. That is why I would like to see understanding from the government parties that we will have this next Tuesday in the daytime debate. I know that Minister Henriksson always prioritised, as he would have done today, when the aircraft allowed, the plenary session of Parliament. We hope that he will be here next Tuesday to present this issue, and we could now move on to another excellent minister, Mr Kurvise.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u23	In the course of the debate, two supported proposals have been put to the table, so we must vote on it. The vote will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and the proceedings shall be adjourned and the session resumed at 2:25 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u24	The sitting adjourned at 2:20 p.m. and the third item in the order of business will now be resumed. — Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u25	Madam President! We in the opposition have no other purpose than to have Mr Henriksson on the table to hear our thanks for this proposal, but also to have a few reinforcements, and I have been informed that Mr Henriksson is on his way to Parliament and is here at 4 p.m. and that we can deal with this at 4 p.m., so I can, Mr President, as a bridge builder, withdraw my proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u26	Since Mr Heinonen has withdrawn his table-putting proposal, we have only one table-putting proposal. Representative Mr Ovaska has made a proposal to leave the matter on the table for another sitting today. This motion by Mr Ovaska has been supported by Mr Werner. So we only have one table-setting proposal, so I would like to say that item 3 will be discussed in the second plenary session today.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u27	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u28	Madam President! Last week, I presented the first government proposal of my ministerial term, and now these other proposals are being dropped from this sector of the Minister for Science and Culture. Today we are talking about a government proposal for a law on research data storage. It is a question of building a better framework for researchers, the general public, industry and the media to have access to better researched information. In other words, ‘resourcesandinformation’is a boring,substantial,substantial,important issue. Knowing what has been studied and by whom is important to be in one place. So that is what this is all about. The data reserve brings together information on the information systems of different actors. This is a national service maintained by the Ministry of Education and Culture, which provides a comprehensive view of Finnish research. The research data reserve could be described as an old library card, a list of cards from which you can see what is in one of the books. And just as in the old days, in our childhood, when there were not yet these digital jobs, in the same way, if there is no card system, it is impossible to find information, or at least very hard to find. The research data reserve does not contain research data but contains so-called metadata from research. These are the name, organisation, subjects, type of publication, etc. of the researcher. Such information has previously been collected and used by the Ministry of Education and Culture. The aim of the Government proposal is to enable the full deployment and operation of the research data reserve and to clarify the principles for the processing of data in the research data reserve. This database, too, takes very seriously the issues of data protection and the processing of personal data. President! I referred to the needs of the general public and the media in the past. An important entity is the open information service of the research data reserve. From the Open Information Service, anyone can search freely and free of charge for open data in the Research Database. The aggregated information is very easy for all actors to use for different purposes in Finland. President! The research data resource has been prepared in broad cooperation with various research actors and this proposal should have broad support among researchers. Research actors participating in the research data pool include research-making, funding and support organisations. In addition to the Ministry, it includes higher education institutions, university hospitals, research institutes, the Academy of Finland, Business Finland and other public research funders as well as private research funding foundations. The Ministry of Education and Culture maintains a research data resource and is a controller for this data resource. The development of the research data base will take place on top of existing structures and systems. Its development will take place through the reallocation of existing development funds, i.e. there should be no additional budgetary impact. Madam Speaker! The Research Resources Act now before Parliament is necessary to enable the processing of metadata, the disclosure of data and the publication of data in studies to take place in such a service — the free rule of law must of course have a legal basis for the processing of personal data. The law project contributes to our common goal of making the work of researchers smoother and providing the best possible service to Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u30	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u31	Madam President! The Government's proposal on the national research data base and its maintenance must be supported. The proposal promotes the transparency, effectiveness and transparency of scientific publications processes. Openness and transparency of science are all the more important values in an age when disinformation and conspiracy theories spread in social media like wildfire. Many scientific communities have also thanked the proposal. However, many communities have drawn attention to the fact that an open research resource must not jeopardise the privacy of researchers. That is why it is good that the draft law gives research operators the right to provide information but does not oblige them to do so. Protecting data protection is important to prevent and prevent misuse of research data. Unfortunately, the harassment and targeting of researchers in particular has increased in the social media era. Therefore, in the further development of the proposal, special attention must be paid to preventing and preventing the misuse of the information resource in order to allow researchers to feel that the data resource is a safe working and communication platform. Madam President! The aim of the national research data reserve is to reduce the administrative work of researchers when the research data reserve can be used for work tasks related to funding applications and financial reporting, for example. At the same time, the proposal supports the Government Programme's objective of strengthening the international competitiveness and attractiveness of Finnish research and scientific communities, as research information is more easily available and available to researchers. However, the increase in digital services must not jeopardise the existence, coverage or quality of physical libraries. Only studies and publications after 2011 are included in the data reserve now presented. This excludes a huge number of studies and publications, many of which exist only in printed versions. Libraries play an important role in maintaining this information. As a result of digitalisation the role of libraries and staff should only be strengthened through the reform, as libraries often have the best know-how in the technical use, maintenance and development of information management systems. Libraries are the memory of a nation. This is the memory that we must cherish as digitalisation progresses. Madam President! Transparency of information and greater transparency of publishing processes will increase public confidence in the information studied, as information is better accessible to all. However, the transition of researched information to transparency must not mean an increase in the free work of researchers. Already, a large number of researchers are working at the limit of their ability to cope. At the same time, many carry out research, education and voluntary work in national and international scientific communities. For many, the workload is unsustainable. Due to the strained work situation of researchers, we need to ensure in further processing that the proposal for a data reserve genuinely reduces the administrative and overlapping work of researchers. The Finnish research cannot rely on the extremity of researchers, but we must take action to enable researchers to focus on the most important: research,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u32	Congressman Kemp.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u33	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for a good and firm presentation. This proposal provides for a law on the research databank. The Ministry of Education and Culture would be responsible for maintaining the national research data base, which would then be stored in the data relating to the research. This is a kind of digital science library, just as the Minister presented in his presentation. I see that there is an important place for both digitality and the physical library in this time. The value of knowledge in this time will only increase. Information sharing policy is one of the most important issues of this time and requires transparency. Of course, it is also a question of who owns this information. After all, this proposal would select the Ministry of Education and Culture as the controller, which seems to me to be quite a natural place for the ownership of this information. The information avalanche, and perhaps even a growing one in the future, is quite total worldwide. To succeed, people need to be able to think independently, to search for information and to be able to make decisions on the basis of information, and then, of course, that information must be available. We have also witnessed this here in Parliament, for example, when dealing with a stimulus package or a corona pass, when there may have been a goal-making phenomenon or an information avalanche, at least in the e-mail of all of us. Information is of enormous importance and it is also a question of who receives information and who can disseminate it. In order to prevent the diversion of people, we must make the most of cultural policy, and that is also why I believe that the Ministry of Education and Culture is a particularly important body for managing and keeping this register of data resources, that is, scientific achievements. The Ministry of Education and Culture therefore acts as owner and controller. This maintenance of the research data reserve is not explicitly provided for in any legislative act regulating the activities and tasks of the Ministry of Education and Culture. Nevertheless, I think that this is the right place for this data controller of the research database. It is also the task of the research database to serve. Representative Soinikoski well described the need for resources, time and leadership. I think we should have all these. Researchers also play an important role in this. We still have a long way to go in Finland to open up science and knowledge. It is such a field that digitalisation has not yet reached sufficiently, and I believe that this is the right step forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u34	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u35	Mr President! As stated in this bill, research data has started to be compiled nationally in the 2010s, mainly by the Ministry of Education and Culture, into separate data reserves contained in different types of data, and these separate data reserves form the backbone of the research data resource now being established. The research data base brings together the metadata of the study — i.e. data from existing data — from different research actors and enables them to be used. The research resource facilitates the work of researchers, increases the visibility of the research carried out, reduces the duplication of data collection and produces information for the management of the research system. The aim must be that our decision-making at various levels of society is based on as much research as possible. In addition, research data should be easily accessible to all citizens. That is why all the measures and legislative projects that contribute to this aim are to be welcomed. Of course, more and more training is also needed as to where reliable information can be identified and what sources of reliable information are available. I hope that these aspects will be sufficiently clearly reflected in the curricula of all schools and educational institutions. The research data reserve now being established is intended to provide information on research in Finland. This supports the freedom of science, for freedom of science also includes the right to use the results of science and research. Freedom is better achieved through the research data pool, as it provides the results of science and research and information on research to the public. The research resource also contributes to the transparency of scientific, researched information. Research data will be available through the website of the research database in a accessible format. It will improve the opportunities for using research data and finding experts to meet the needs of different actors. The presentation also makes it possible for researchers to become more diverse and visible at sea. In the research data base, data can also be combined and modified to improve quality and usability. Mr President! Of course, the important benefit of the reform is also that the time needed for different administrative processes will be reduced because data need not be stored separately in different systems, as is currently the case. In these times of scarce resources, it is positive if and when administrative work can be reduced in a reasonable way. All in all, a good bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u36	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u37	Madam President! Thank you, Minister Kurvise, for a clear presentation. The Internet has changed the world. One major change concerns the processing, preservation and searching of information. Today, the Internet makes it almost possible to access information from one’s own device. The systems have evolved to serve both science and citizens. It has come a long way since the library card lists had to be carefully examined in order to obtain research information. Mr President! However, it has been difficult to create an overall picture of the Finnish research system. The so-called metadata of the study have been collected in Finland since the beginning of the 2010s. Metadata refers to information that describes information or, for example, a file. The same information has been collected and stored in various formats in various systems. The information has not automatically passed between the authors of the studies. Insufficient data have been available. Misinformation has also been made available. The digital potential of the Internet has not been fully exploited. The fragmentation of the metadata of the study has not contributed to the transparency of science. In addition, it has created additional work for both researchers and research organisations and research funders. Mr President! The Government's proposal for a research data resource managed by the Ministry of Education and Culture makes sense. The resources provided by technology will be properly mobilised. Information is being gathered in one place. Thanks to shared data flows, data only need to be entered into the systems once, and it can also be automated. Data management and reporting will be smoother. When the description and content of the studies are in the joint service, time and effort will be saved. At the same time, the research carried out in Finland will be better presented and used. This increases understanding and acceptability of the data studied. It is also estimated that confidence in science will increase. Our decision-making can be based on better researched information. So all of this serves researchers, research actors, the media, decision-makers, citizens, the general public — everyone wins. Mr President! We need reforms that will make our actions more effective. This is a good example of such a thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u38	Congressman Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u39	Madam President! As has been pointed out in all these speeches, the national open research data base is very much to be welcomed. Mr Kurvis has a huge responsibility. Throughout the ages, science has been a flickering flame in the dark, and this flame must be protected by all of us, but especially by Minister Kurvisen, and that is indeed what this proposal is doing. As Mr Soinikoski said in his good speech, this information resource is also important for the abolition of various conspiracy theories and pseudosciences. I heard a shocking story this weekend: throughout Finland, so-called vaccine critics refuse blood transfusions in connection with operations because they fear the blood donated is contaminated. It is very regrettable that such incredible claims are being distributed on the Internet in various social media channels, but unfortunately also in this Chamber – I am very disappointed about that. This research resource will also make it easier for researchers to work at a distance, and I would have asked Minister Kurvis: does this proposal, according to your assessment, have an impact on the distance work of researchers, and does it bring science closer to the countryside?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u40	Congressman Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u41	Madam President! As we have heard here, this proposal is very much to be welcomed, although it is of a rather administrative nature, and it is not really anything that would be particularly inciting at house evenings or at other events, but it is all the more important when it comes to the everyday work of a researcher and the development and stages of a researcher's career. Now, for example, if you look at the career development and career path of a young researcher, there is, of course, the uncertainty of funding and access to finance, the continued application for funding for the research work of your own, when there is no post and, of course, even after that, is continuous and highly employable in view of the researcher's everyday life. This presentation will contribute to the relief and will certainly streamline in many ways the everyday work of our research institutes and universities. Now, if we look at this proposal in more detail, this so-called researcher profile service is certainly a central part of this proposal. This so-called profile service constitutes such a resource of information, but it is nevertheless a means for researchers to network across the country and to bring research carried out in various research institutes closer together and to improve cooperation through it. All the same, the proposal is very carefully prepared and rightly supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u42	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u43	Madam President! We're dealing with the research data reserve. If so, research is terribly important, and it is important how that information is collected and stored and how it is used and whether it is also available for sale abroad or abroad. Data protection is important, but when this information is collected, it is also important to take into account its usability in the future. Sometimes information has been collected and stored, and then it may not have been readable in the future. Even for decades ahead, it's important to take into account things like this. It is important that it is transparent and generally sensible. It makes sense to collect things that make sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u44	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u45	Madam President! At first, I thought this would be a rather theoretical discussion, but it would have had some rather subtle features for a while. The Minister did his best to put this into practice, to make this understandable. I have to be honest with you, this isn't an easy-to-take thing, so what are we really doing? In fact, I asked for my own intervention if I could illustrate it with an individual example. That explanatory statement of the government's proposal makes reference to the fact that we currently have limited research registers. After all, medicine is one of the most international disciplines. A few years ago, the actors in the Meilahti campus area in Helsinki formed AMCH, the Academic Medical Center Helsinki, which was a common name for a very large number of operators. Of course, the university hospital is the most important, then the medical faculty, but dozens of other research institutes are actually found in a rather compact area. Once a day, the latest research was published on the Internet, and it must be said that I was also amazed that every day there were ten new medical studies coming from this area, the Helsinki Medical Centre. They come — but not every weekend — in just over 2000 a year, and so this AMCH is one of Europe's leading medical research consortia, quite comparable to the Karolinic Institute in Stockholm and the like of many top units in Europe and the rest of the world. And now, of course, I am just talking, by way of example, about one of the most international disciplines in the world. In this sense, there are important conditions for easier access to information, just as colleagues have raised in their speeches, but I wanted to speak because I myself could in some way make this point more concrete: Ten new scientific studies every single day. It is a major achievement, and it is just a drop from the whole of Finland that is produced, let alone in the whole world. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u46	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u47	Mr President! This is very good and necessary — as we have heard from several speakers — from the point of view of researchers, industry and the media alike. This certainly serves the transparency and transparency of science. From the consumer's point of view, I understand that the most common error in the search for research data is perhaps this so-called cherry pick, which seeks support for its own perception and does not necessarily show itself as a whole. I understand that this research resource also gives more space to the whole of science and knowledge. But, President-in-Office, this legislative reform also involves a profile service for researchers, which will enable researchers to build an image of themselves as an expert. In other words, the researcher will be given the opportunity to gain visibility for his research and help with career advancement. I would like to ask Mr Kurvis: how do you see this in particular contributing to the development and career of young researchers?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u48	Congressman Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u49	Madam President! Perhaps it is too rare for the opposition to thank the government, so surely now the Minister. We should thank Mr Kurvis for such a good legislative proposal as well as for a firm presentation here in front of Parliament, and Mr Kurvinen has, of course, recently shown himself to be in the best interests of others. But this research resource is a useful thing, and the Ministry of Education and Culture is definitely the right body to manage this information resource. And I am sure that this dimension, which the Minister will perhaps describe in more detail, and which relates to this very important question by Mr Kivisaari — how young scientists can benefit from this, that they will be able to access the sources of information and network with their colleagues who are doing research on the same topics — is definitely something that will certainly serve Finland's national interests and, on the other hand, serve the entire international scientific community, and we ourselves will benefit from our strong contacts with the international scientific community. In other words, this is a very good proposal from Minister Kurvis and I am sure that the committees will deal with it properly, and I believe that the responsible opposition will also support this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u50	Secretary Kurvinen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u51	Madam President! I would like to thank Parliament for a very good referral debate and for its wide-ranging handling of the matter. It is always a pleasure for the Minister, and also for those who have worked with this, to have an interest in the Members of Parliament, and here we have a good deal to do in committee. It occurred to me when I listened to that conversation that many times it is simply that simple things are the best and the most ingenious of all. This is, after all, a very simple matter — bringing together data from different databases, who has studied what and where — but this has very big potential. I would say that this is a good start for a lot of things. Member of Parliament Mikko Kärnä asked how this helps the countryside and whether this helps researchers telework and researchers in rural areas. My own view is that the researcher's work has been very place-independent for a very long time now, and certainly that place-independentness has only become even stronger with digital opportunities. Perhaps it is the bringing of science closer to the countryside that is involved, so that now the home plane is easy for everyone in the countryside and why not in the city to see who has studied what, and in that way the researched knowledge, scientific knowledge, will certainly come closer to the general public. Then I felt that the role of young scientists and the development of their expertise and their scientific development with this, and to some extent the social aspect — it is not being dealt with, I am not going to do so — was very well and rightly raised here. It helps exactly where it will certainly help anyone who does the thesis: each one of us who has made a thesis or some other thesis must have struggled with the fact that who would have written this subject on my subject, and now you can locate it. There will certainly also be networking opportunities. This, in its simplicity, is a brilliant platform for great development.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u52	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 21/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Chairman of the committee, Mr Kymäläinen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u53	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Transport and Communications concerns the transport system and road transport... — Ah, this is, sorry, wrong speech. Can we run and get another one? [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u56	Yes, thank you. — Mr Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u57	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of our committee, Mr Kymäläinen, for a good presentation. Indeed, as described above, this halve of fairway charges was already carried out by the previous government from 2015 and strongly on the grounds that we want to promote the competitiveness of the Finnish export industry. Mr President! This is how it is that Finland is a very export-driven country. Our standard of living is entirely dependent on how well our industry and our exports are doing, and in this sense the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party has also weighed all the different aspects of this issue very seriously. Indeed, the committee's hearing also raised various points of view, which the chairman of our committee also described well above. After all of this, the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party has come to the conclusion that the most important thing for Finland's competitiveness would be the complete abolition of these fairway charges. This would bring about an improvement in cost competitiveness of around EUR 50 million from the point of view of our export sectors. We believe that this would safeguard Finnish well-being. We see that the maintenance of shipping routes should be a universal service in the same way as, as a rule, the maintenance of the rest of the transport network is from the point of view of the export industries. That is why, Mr President, I would like to suggest that this case is based on a draft law, in line with the objections of the Assembly, which repeals the law on fairway charges, and then we would be better able to promote the competitiveness of the Finnish export industry in this regard than this government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u58	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u59	Mr President! The committee has very carefully produced its own report, and I cannot, of course, raise my hand here to the point of view of the Convention and will support it here at all costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u62	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u63	Thank you, Mr President. It is easy to agree with the previous speaker's view that this proposal is necessary and that it is precisely in the way that it promotes Finnish industry, Finnish growth, Finnish work, and it is an important signal to us to continue with this good decision. But just as we heard earlier, I think that this long-term and systemic change in the system is necessary, and in that sense the alternatives to the opposition are quite justified — not so that they are now introduced, but this debate on how we could increase the competitiveness of our exports and how we could reform this system without endangering our ports in the north, without endangering the security of the Baltic Sea, but without raising too much costs for Finnish exports and business, is an essential issue. At this point, I do not think it is possible to move on to greater changes, but this work should begin. I am not quite sure whether there is a need for parliamentary preparation, but, nevertheless, we should make extensive preparations for how we can get out of this kind of continuous fixed-term decision-making for more permanent decision-making. Just as has already been said here, it creates the long-term and predictability for our industry, and why does it not also improve the attractiveness of our ports, as if it were such a hub that we already have — hopefully even after the corona — Helsinki Airport has successfully handled air traffic. But all the same, I think the proposal is very much to be welcomed. I would also like to thank the ministries and the chairman of the committee for a very good job and, of course, all the members of the committee for a very good job, which, at least in my own opinion, keeps the competitiveness of Finnish exports and industry alive.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u64	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u65	Mr President! The fairway fee has been collected for a very long time. The fairway fee has been halved since 2015 continuously until this day, and now this government proposal proposes that it should be halved as well as 2022 and 2023. It is good that it will also be seen for the next two years now, but I also hope that we can look at it in a longer time perspective. This government proposal is indeed very necessary, and the committee therefore considers that the extension of the halving of the fairway charge until the end of the year 23 is well-founded and well-founded at this stage, in terms of strengthening the competitiveness of industry and export companies and reducing transport costs. It has to be said that, in the coming years, there will also be additional cost pressures on maritime transport, including through environmental regulation, and this will have to be taken into account in the future. Personally, I would like to take note of the fact that both domestic and foreign vessels collect the fairway charge or the halved fairway fee. It is important to note that even foreign vessels pay for it, and maritime transport is vital to Finland because of our geographical location, and it is important for Finnish industry in particular. When this matter was discussed in committee, this was supported by experts on a large scale. And what came up in that expert consultation was that a long-term solution is hoped for in the future. Some experts also felt that it would be justified to waive the charges in the future, but some experts also considered this system to be a very good one. Finnish shipowners, among others, considered this system to be a good one. However, as the committee points out, it is also important to take into account aspects relating to the efficiency, safety and environmental impact of transport in the solutions to the fairway charge. It is good that the way in which the fairway fee is determined and the way in which the charges are reduced most from high ice-class vessels is directed towards the use of ice-strength vessels in Finnish waters. In my opinion, it is also a good thing to mention this. And when the Coalition Party is proposing a total abolition of bus charges, I would just like to say that, in the last parliamentary term, the Coalition Party, together with the Centre Party, was of the opinion,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u66	And Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u67	Mr President! Finland lives on exports and imports. Finland is an island, shipping routes are very important for our country's export and import traffic and therefore also for the well-being it generates. Yes, the halving of the fairway fee was started that day during the previous government, and that is a good thing. In such a situation, it was a very necessary action. However, the Assembly has now proposed that the fairway fee should be abolished in its entirety, and I support the proposal made by Mr Automotive to do so. We don't charge tolls in the truck either, so why should we charge ships now? On the contrary, the more we can eliminate these obstacles to the competitiveness of our country, which are linked to a high level of cost, the better. I believe that this is a matter that is widely understood in this Chamber. Having listened to these speeches, I have come to the conclusion that quite a few here might even be prepared to give up charging for the fairway, but for some reason the situation does not allow it at the moment. But I am therefore in favour of the motion to abolish the bus fare. The government proposal is a step in the right direction, but, let me say, it's half-way. The fairway fee should therefore be abolished in its entirety.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u68	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u69	Mr President! It is an excellent proposal to continue to halve the fairway charges. All MPs should remember that for the Finnish economy the importance of shipping is number one: more than 90 per cent of our exports go to that world market. And you can only imagine, for example, in the forest industry or in the metal industry that if shipping did not play, this country would be in immediate trouble and in real trouble. The same applies to energy transport today. In all my speeches throughout my career as a representative, I have defended domestic energy. Of course, when we are a state fully dependent on imported energy, this issue of fairway charges is such that a permanent solution should be found here. This is something of a tragedy that every single parliament will discuss this and then say when the new proposal comes from the Committee on Transport and Communications and the President will present, as the chairman of the committee has just presented this matter — a very good, well-founded speech... I would like to see such a procedure now that this issue of fairway charges can be dealt with through permanent, long-term legislation, so that the matter of fairway charges can be put in order at once and not every single year in the context of the budget — in a way not in vain, but in this case there is a return of good energy, and the predictability of transport is poor.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u70	Congressman Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u71	Mr President! A good debate has taken place in this Chamber, and that debate in committee has also been very constructive, despite the fact that there have been two objections to this in committee in connection with the examination of this law. As has been said, Finland has nothing to do with its own location, and we are far away and very dependent on shipping: 80 to 90 % of our imports and exports are by sea, and one third of these ships, which are engaged in maritime transport, are vessels of Finnish shipowners. It must be noted that, as I said in my first speech, this, however, has the third most significant change in the budget for the year 2022 in terms of reducing tax revenue in euros, that is to say, there is quite a significant question here when it comes to whether or not this is to be completely deleted. Then we would have to figure out where else those taxes will be tightened or where else the revenue will come from when they will be reduced at this point. It is true that the experts in the committee pointed out that this total abolition would be good. This proposal for halves received unanimous support, but some experts also raised this point of view. However, in the committee's deliberations, for example, the issues raised by Finnish shipowners were also those which did not justify this total abolition of fairway charges: for example, if we consider that these fairway charges also have guiding characteristics in terms of winter shipping and traffic regularity, and also in terms of ensuring security of supply and safety at sea. It is important that we be able to support domestic shipping operations insofar as we retain ships under the Finnish flag. But, of course, there is also the point of view here, as has been said here, that this halving of fairway charges also gives quite a lot of discounts to those foreigners, two thirds of these shipping vessels. It is then a direct transfer of income there, and it is aware of the choice, especially if it is to be completely excluded from the fairway charges. In that sense, as Mr Könttä said here, if such a state of will were to be fully abolished on a large-scale parliamentary level, it would be a matter which should be examined very carefully as to what those effects on competitiveness would be.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u72	Congressman Werner.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u73	Mr President! Corona pandemic has created significant economic challenges for foreign trade and maritime transport. This government proposal supports industry and business from the point of view of the competitiveness of export companies and transport costs. Therefore, there are grounds for extending the halving of the fairway fee, and this is very important. The Committee on Transport and Communications also has an important role to play in proposing in its report the adoption of the proposal unchanged. Finland is dependent on shipping because of its geographical location alone. It should also be noted that between 80 and 90 per cent of Finland's imports and exports are by sea. It is therefore absolutely necessary to ensure the operating conditions of shipping from the point of view of foreign trade and security of supply. If fairway charges were to be abolished in full, it would mean that the services produced for commercial shipping should be fully financed from the state budget and this would have implications for debt or tax tightening. In addition to these, the characteristics of the fairway charge would also be lost, as the chairman of the committee said earlier. Nor can the importance of security of supply in Finland and the safety of maritime transport be underestimated. This is also of great importance for the survival of the fleet of viable Finnish shipowners. Therefore, there is still a strong need for halving the fairway charge and it is fully justified and well supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u74	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u75	Mr President! Then, when we start to reflect on the long-term way in which bus fares are abolished, it must of course be said, just in order to refresh your memory, that we still have a different industry in terms of fees and inequalities, depending on the industry. We do not have fairway charges for the Saimaa Canal, for example, and those foreign ships that are in Finnish territorial waters do not pay fairway charges, and if they go without stopping to the Saimaa Canal, they will not pay fairway charges at that point either. Perhaps this should be borne in mind by the chairman of the committee: perhaps we should start doing a little bit like what we are planning to do for truck traffic to get some kind of charge for driving foreign trucks here. Let us hope that this is progressing, and now the Finns are hardly opposed to it as they did during the last term of government. At present, if, for example, the Boliden factory in Harjavalta has a copper load from Chile — it comes on the same ship perhaps three times a year — each time they pay the bus fee, now halved, but when the bulk ship or, say, the freighter is on the German side or in the port of Rotterdam, it will no longer pay the bus charges after the tenth time, or for passenger transport 30. After the trip there will be no more bus fares, and the higher the tonnage, the more expensive the charges will be which will result in extra costs for justi bulk ships and this heavy Finnish industry compared to some other industry. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u76	Thank you. — and Mr Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u77	Mr President! I still believe that this fairway fee should be abolished altogether. The depreciation would increase the volume of transit traffic and would therefore compensate for the loss caused by the depreciation of the State’s revenue. It is estimated that a 10% increase in transit traffic would be sufficient to cover this amount of 50 million. If transit traffic doubled, which is the assessment by many logistics operators of the impact of the abolition of the fairway charge, the State would be able to cover all the costs incurred by maritime and water transport by means of that increase in revenue. Still, from an international perspective, this fairway fee is a freak. Everywhere else, the fairways are financed from the state budget without any different fees, and Finland is therefore different. If we compare international maritime transport and those who, for example, export a lot of goods to Russia along the Gulf of Finland, then the fact that there is no fairway charge in other ports in Russia and Estonia is a major competitive disadvantage for us. In fact, it would be interesting to know — the chairman of the committee, Mr Kymäläinen, has already described this proposal and the work you have done, but I would like to ask you quite precisely now: have you actually calculated the financial impact of the abolition of this fairway charge, and have you listened to the assessments made by the operators in the sector as to how it would affect the growth of transport? And what is your own view of whether it would reduce maritime transport or increase in a favorable way if this fairway charge were abolished? Now that we are listening to this debate and, for example, from the far left side of the Chamber, Mrs Myllykoski seems to be in favour of this abolition of the fairway fee, but not quite out loud, I have the impression that this idea could have the parliamentary support if such a proposal were to be built.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u78	Congressman Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u79	Mr President! There has been a good discussion around a very important theme, and just a few comments. First of all, it is quite clear that the customer always pays for its transport. And in this respect, I think that perhaps some of the speeches gave a slightly misleading impression that, as it were, a huge transfer from the Finnish taxpayer to foreign shipowners was being made. This is not the case, of course, but, of course, when the shipping companies have competition, they will be able to price the Finnish customer, the customer who ordered the transport, for a cheaper transport. So it is certainly not a question of any kind of transfer to shipowners, but of improving the competitiveness of the Finnish export industry. Mr President! Perhaps, then, a second point of view, where there are nuances — of course, this question of these ice class regulations is not in any way black and white, but it is clear that when there is an incentive to have a good ice rating for a ship, it will of course contribute to that direction. But yes, Mr President, I believe that even in the committee's expert hearings, it was precisely the regulations of the authorities on these ice classes that determine the type of equipment being used to transport to and from Finland's ports. And in this respect, it is quite clear that the importance of this fairway charge is very small in the way these ships are travelling to Finland on ice, and that they are also environmentally safe ships when they are reinforced with ice. And here it is the regulations of the authorities and the activities of the traffic authorities that are going to set the pace for this. Perhaps a third point, Mr President, briefly — when the chairman of the committee came to the Chamber, of course, a little more freely will then be able to deal with the matter in his own speech and perhaps seek what would then be covered by such additional investment in the competitiveness of our industry. I can promise you that, when only the government first gets some idea of this overall budget, the Coalition Party will certainly present in its own alternative budget an option which, in terms of the balance between the state and public finances in general, is in a better balance than this government option. There's nothing to worry about.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u80	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u81	Mr President! Actually, it's a representative. I would like to continue with the fact that there are very different ships sailing to Finnish waters and to Finland, and yes, the vessels of Finnish shipowners are of the highest quality. When the committee dealt with this issue, the committee also considered it in principle good that the way in which the fairway fee was set and the way in which the charges were reduced most from high ice-class vessels was directed towards the use of ice-strength vessels in Finnish waters. You must remember that quite a large part of the year is also needed for ice-strength vessels in Finland, so that you can get here and then get out of here. This is also important in terms of ensuring the security of supply and safety of maritime transport in Finland, as well as the survival of viable Finnish shipowners and fleets, and this is where Finnish shipowners are viewed, so that Finnish shipowners and Finnish vessels are also able to compete in this global competition. When this total abolition of fairway charges has been brought up by the Assembly, I would like to say that a little over a year ago, I think it was there in early 2020, the Ministry of Transport and Communications was also looking into and considering the possibility of abolishing the fairway charges altogether or then halving them. The fact is that a proposal had already been sent from the Ministry of Transport to the effect that fairway charges would have been completely abolished in the second half of 20, and when the statement was made, the authors of the statements were of the opinion that such a solution should not be taken into account, but that this halving of fairway charges is the right way and realistic way and a position that is more favourable to Finnish industry and Finnish shipping companies, because a large part of the ships coming to Finland are foreign and fairway charges apply to both domestic and foreign vessels.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u82	Congressman Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u83	Mr President! Very good speech by Mrs Torniainen, Vice-President of the committee. In the face of this, in part, you have already answered the question put by Mr Kopra, which has indeed been clarified in the early part of last year, indeed, I am not going to repeat it in its entirety — and yes, we have heard experts, Mr Kopra, and now in committee in connection with this matter as before. — Unfortunately, Mr Kopra cannot wait and listen to the answer, even though he asked questions, but I understand that there is a lot of work to be done. [Jukka Kopra moves from the door of the Chamber to his own seat] So, you asked me what my point of view was and there are no black and white views on this issue. We also recorded this in the committee's report that some experts have pointed out this view that there should be a halve of bus charges. But since this is not a black and white matter, even though it is a hand-out for our business and exports, at the same time it is also a transfer of income to foreign shipping companies, and here is the danger of affecting the quantity of our fleet or our security of supply and the condition of these ships, the ice-sea sustainability. I personally see that this has certainly been one of the reasons why in 2015 the previous government first introduced half of this bus fee to Parliament and received parliamentary support for it. These things have certainly been weighed even when this presentation has been made. But I agree with that, as is the case with this committee's report, that there is a need for a long-term approach. This halving has been so long now, a couple of years have always come back to this, so that it can be made permanent, and then we could discuss whether we need to completely remove this. The Saimaa Canal was mentioned, and I can't help but attach myself to it. After all, the Saimaa Canal also has user charges, i.e. it is not entirely free of charge for shipowners or ships, even though it is of a different type of transport. It is noted that this halving of the fairway charge, the half contribution, involves foreign shipowners in financing services for commercial shipping. This is also of great importance to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u84	Like this. — Mr Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u85	Mr President! Briefly, the Coalition Party wants precisely to invest in Finland, and in Finland, industry and our export industries in general are competitive. It brings work and well-being to us, and it brings concrete work to Finnish shipping companies, for example. So it is not the idea of the coalition that we do not want to hear the views of Finnish shipowners on this issue — on the contrary, we have heard with great sensitivity — but when we pull all the different perspectives together here, we can conclude that we now need the belief of the future in Finland and that we need to make our economic wheels run in such a way that good products are made here in the future, which are sold around the world, and then the money that comes from the world to finance our well-being. In this sense, it is precisely from the point of view of improving Finnish competitiveness that, after this good debate too, we will stick to the fact that we have proposed a complete abolition of fairway charges at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u86	Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u87	Mr President! As a representative of the West Coast and of a very industrialised province, I would like to continue to support this speech by our excellent committee leader and this debate that has taken place in this Chamber. As the chairman of the committee knows, this is not the first time that we have discussed this issue. However, when we look at the structure of our industry and industry, we live in the export industry, and if and when we want to ensure that the costs of our industry and business transport are reasonable or, rather, able to calculate them, then we will ultimately not have very many effective means of doing so, and, Mr President, the abolition of fairway charges is undoubtedly an effective means of doing so, and this has been proposed by the Assembly for many years already in its own alternative budget. Mr. Speaker! As a second comment on this point: we have previously discussed the fact that fairway charges have been collected in the past in order to cover the costs of maritime icebreaking, and now that we know that, for quite a long time, for many years, fairway charges have been applied in half, and we know that, in reality, this link in terms of the collection of fairway charges and compensation for the costs of icebreaking is no longer in the same sense as it has been in the past, it seems to me that, even in this context, it is now justified to consider fairway charges as a separate part of this whole and to consider it as one of these measures, which will allow the costs of Finnish industry and business to be reduced specifically. I believe that this will have a direct positive impact on the costs of our transport and, in the light of that, we can also support the Finnish industry and the export industry which, however, brings added value to this society, so, Mr President, I warmly support this own motion and protest made by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u88	I saw, and the chairman of the committee, Mr Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u89	Thank you, Mr President! I have already promised that I will say no more about this, but Mr Marttinen's good speech as such has prompted me to take the floor as well. Of course we must say that we all agree that all of us in this Chamber want to support Finnish industry, industry,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u92	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 7/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — The vice-chairman of the committee, Mr Elo, presents.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u93	Mr President! Indeed, as Vice-President of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, I present the report: This Government proposal proposes three mainly technical amendments to the Land Use and Building Act. First of all, for the share of energy from renewable sources in the total energy of new buildings and large-scale renovations, it is proposed to set minimum accounting requirements. This relates to the implementation of the Renewable Energy Directive. It is proposed to extend the scope of the permit for building buildings requiring an environmental impact assessment to local communities whose rules include the protection of nature, health or the environment. Third, it is proposed that the Safety and Chemicals Agency act as a building product contact point within the meaning of the Construction Products Regulation to provide information on the provisions on construction products in Finland. This law is intended to enter into force as soon as possible. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection considers the proposal of the Government to be necessary and appropriate and supports its adoption with minor amendments. The committee's consultations focused mainly on the criteria for extending the consultation process in relation to the EIA Directive. The Commission has made a formal comment to Finland on the shortcomings in the proper implementation of the EIA Directive, and this proposal proposes to remedy the shortcomings in such a way that, in the case of a building that is subject to the Law on the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure, the right of appeal for a decision on a building and measure permit and a decision on a permit for landscape work and demolition would be conferred on the Community registered in the area of activity with a view to promoting environmental, health and nature conservation. Similarly, the municipality must reserve an opportunity for the members and participants of the municipality to express their opinion on the permit application if the application concerns a building subject to the Yva law. The extension of the right to information, consultation and appeal referred to in this Government proposal is limited to individual buildings to be authorised and subject to a mandatory Yva review. The Committee notes that this change will in practice apply to wind power construction in particular. In the future, therefore, wind power buildings in the area of wind power plants designated in the direct-directive scenario will always be subject to an extended consultation, consultation and complaint procedure if the wind power project has been subject to the EIA procedure. The key issues to be considered in these building permits are the design of the building plan, the urban and environmental suitability, safety and health. For the sake of clarity, the committee notes in its report that the extension of the right of appeal is not intended to alter the grounds of appeal. Finally, the Committee notes that, with regard to the whole of land use planning and building permits, ensuring adequate and proportionate access and access to justice from the point of view of the EIA Directive and, more generally, from the point of view of the consistency of national legislation, it would in itself require thorough preparation which would be appropriate for the overall reform of the Land Use and Building Law. That is why the committee considers the proposed regulatory approach in the government proposal to complement the implementation of the EIA Directive, now slightly amended, to be justified and supports this government proposal to deal with this matter. At the end of this report, the committee stresses the importance of ensuring not only the adequacy of the inclusion procedures, but also their timeliness and clarity and the smooth functioning of the authorisation procedures, alongside a comprehensive review of the environmental impact. In addition to the coherence of legislation, it is also important to provide guidance and training for operators and licensing authorities, as well as sufficient resources for authorities and appeal courts to avoid further delays in projects. In this regard, the committee was very unanimous in its view. Indeed, the slight change we propose to make to this government proposal is the clarification of the section by adding the word ‘project’to which the amendment would entail:‘The municipality must reserve an opinion on an application for authorisation if the application concerns a building project which is subject to the Act on the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure.’ In other words, in this way, it is proposed that this government's proposal be adopted. Here, Mr President, is the presentation of the report by the committee. Two objections have been raised.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u94	Like this. — Now, Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u95	Mr President! I took the floor in the referral debate on this subject and raised some worrying questions which, at least on the basis of this report, did not give me any answers. I would like to ask the vice-president of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mrs Elo, how she dealt with this issue of waste heat, which was raised in quite a number of opinions. For example, when Helen, the Energy Industry, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, raised the issue of waste heat, why is waste heat no longer considered renewable energy? Was it the case that the opinion of the Trade Union or the Energy Industry raised the concern that this could in fact lead to the loss of heat being stopped when it did not comply with the requirements of this legislation? I would now like to ask the vice-president of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, Mrs Elo: was there any way in which this issue was raised, and how did the committee, and in particular the government parties, make their position on this issue? At least there is no desire to make a change to this, that is, if I understood correctly, the government parties have wanted to maintain the exclusionary side of this waste heat. And, of course, what also worried me was that this took a different direction in the development that started last season. In other words, this is an extension of the right of appeal and, in fact, rather significant changes. For example, the article states that the municipality must reserve an opportunity for the members and participants of the municipality to express an opinion on the application for authorisation if the application concerns a building governed by the Act on the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure. This extension is very extensive and quite comprehensive, for example in cities where I understand it applies to all the inhabitants of the city. Personally, I have shared the concern about these processes, as the already overlapping complaints are delaying the projects. On the contrary, I believe that the direction should be smoother and not, as in this proposal, more bureaucratic. The criticism is directed specifically at this point in Yva, which, as I understand it, extends the rights of appeal to a considerable extent. The technology industry stated in its own opinion: ‘The construction licence is based on a technical authorisation procedure which assesses the conformity of the design and the technical Therefore, the building permit is not concerned with matters relevant to the environmental impact of the EIA Directive.’ In my opinion, this was quite an essential issue in this as a whole, and I would now like to ask the vice-president of the committee, Mrs Elo, and Mrs Torniainen, for example, how you viewed it in the centre, while last season the centre was still in favour of this streamlining. Why has this been allowed to happen? If I have understood correctly when I read this report, has this happened like the former President of the Centre, the current CEO of the Trade Union? In his own statement, the Kiviniemi called for it? In his opinion he stated: ‘However,the Commission’srememberance had not been possible,it is not understood thatthe draft proposal has been more specific. It is therefore not possible to comment on what has actually been requested to amend in the hearings and therefore the ongoing consultation does not meet the requirements for consultation.’ I would now like to ask the vice-president of the committee, Mrs Elo: did you receive this reminder from the European Commission for you to see? Is it public at the moment? What has been required in this reminder, and what has the Marin government responded to this? If I have understood correctly, this present left-wing government of Marin in 2020 has provided an answer to this secret reminder to the European Commission, at least at the stage of its opinion, and has announced an extension of the right of appeal rather than better solutions to the Commission's demands. ‘Extension of the right of appeal willencourage the However, on the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the committee considers that the Government's proposal is inevitable in the present situation." This is stated in the objection to the Convention and does not indicate the traditions which normally state that ‘it is considered reasonable and appropriate’. Now I would like to ask a member of the Centre's Environment Committee, Mrs Torniainen, when the chairman of the Centre's Committee Sipilä is not here: did the centre really acknowledge such a response in 2020 to the EU Commission and accept that what is now is an inevitable outcome? I personally regard this as a truly regrettable measure, and it would therefore require a more thorough public cleaning and examination of why it has done so than it has done. And the direct question is the centre: in 2020, did the centre acknowledge this extension of the right to appeal?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u96	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u97	Mr President! We are now dealing with the Land Use and Construction Act and it is being proposed to be amended. Thank you to the vice-president of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy for presenting the amendments This is a pretty interesting law. Local government managers have also received critical feedback from municipalities. In fact, the feedback has been such that in future the municipalities will no longer be allowed to decide as much of the things as they have been given in the past. This reform of the Land Use and Construction Act is really a big deal. This is now one part of it, and it affects many things in the future. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Finns have put forward a motion to reject this bill, and that is justifiable because it increases bureaucracy, does not streamline things at all, increases regulation and complicates things. This wind power thing and this wind power formula thing and things like this have also given rise to confusion. These are a little bit of questionable stuff, and they think a lot about it. There is no point in adding unnecessary bureaucracy, and it is, of course, reasonable that this bureaucracy should be reduced, because unnecessary bureaucracy simply increases the price, that is to say, it makes sense that things should be streamlined and certainly not increase the bureaucracy. And perhaps more uniform rules would be needed in Finland on the construction side, because there are different building instructions in different parts of Finland. So it is a little strange that if you go north or south or to Eastern Finland, it may be that it varies from one municipality to another. These are very interesting, that is, more such unity would be needed, but bureaucracy must be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to finish this matter, after which we will have a 20-minute recess and then we will start a new sitting, where this marriage law will be the first issue. — And now we will continue the debate, Mr Sipilä gone. — Mr Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u99	Mr President! There is indeed a report from the Committee on the Environment on the amendment of the Land Use and Construction Act, which, among other things, extends the scope of the right of appeal to the permit for the construction of a project covered by the EIA procedure. Environmental organisations, among others, are now gaining a new right to appeal. As stated in the committee's report, this change will in practice apply to the construction of wind power. The proposal will increase bureaucracy and slow down wind power projects that are crucial to Finland’s energy self-sufficiency, affordable energy and emission reductions. It is truly regrettable that the government went to the Commission to promise this amendment of the law, as has been pointed out in the objection to the Assembly. The government should first have sought to explain to the Commission how the current law meets the requirements of the EIA Directive with regard to the right of appeal of organisations. This proposal goes in the opposite direction to the improvements made in the Land Use and Building Act last season and in particular the objectives for the reform of the MRL, which is therefore intended to facilitate construction and thus create conditions for growth in Finland. The real risk in this proposal is that organisations will now be able to complain about the same thing both in terms of the formula and the building permit. It is true that the environmental effects of the EIA Directive — above all the noise, flash and landscape effects of wind power projects — will be assessed in Finland in the context of planning, in the case of wind power in these project scenarios. In Finland, on the other hand, the building permit is a technical design assessment and does not include taking into account the environmental impacts covered by the directive and, for example, the location of the project is determined specifically in Finland. One option would therefore be to justify and interpret the fact that the Finnish wind power project plan is actually permit-shaped, at least as referred to in the EIA Directive, and that the procedural rights under the Directive are in fact subject to a design rather than a building permit, and this interpretation would, of course, fulfil the EU obligations, because I believe that these organisations already have the right to appeal. Well, a little comfort is that the committee's report rightly emphasised that the extension of the right of appeal is not intended to change the grounds of appeal, and I hope that will limit these pointless and inappropriate complaints — hopefully so. But I too would be happy to hear arguments from the members of the committee's government about why the government went to promise the Commission these changes and did not try to justify that the legislation in force in Finland meets the requirements of the EIA Directive.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u100	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u101	Mr President! This government proposal is, as Mrs Elo, vice-chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, in her own speech, said, mainly technical and also partly comes from EU legislation. What has, of course, also led to a great deal of debate in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is precisely this implementation of the EIA Directive. The fact is that the Commission has made a formal comment to Finland on the shortcomings in the proper implementation of the EIA Directive, and this was the subject of a wide-ranging debate in the Committee on the Environment. Since Mr Heinonen has apparently left the Chamber and asked those questions, I will not go through them in detail. However, ‘the extension of the right to information,consultation and appeal referred to in the Government’s proposal Furthermore,the committee’s examination found that this mandatory word‘is difficult tounderstand in this There was a debate on whether this could be clarified in any way and there are very different views. As regards the Yva procedure directive, the committee notes that ‘there will be a change in practice, particularly in the case of wind power builders’. Furthermore,for the sake of clarity,the Committee’s ‘extension of the right to appeal That is a good thing to take into account, a good point, but the fact is that it can undoubtedly delay some of the projects. This government, as it did last season, still wants to streamline construction decisions and construction projects, and I sincerely hope that projects will not be delayed. And, as the vice-president of the committee said in his presentation, it is important not only to ensure that legislation is consistent but also to ensure that operators' and licensing authorities' guidance, training and public authorities' [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u104	All right. — Representative Hoskonen — Representative Hoskonen absent. — Mr Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u105	Mr President! Mr Torniainen described this as a technical issue, but I think that this is a bit of a political avoidance because it is precisely the direction in which things are developing in Finland. Is this a country where the wheels are invested, where the future is believed, a country that is built in accordance with the principles of sustainable development, or is this a country where all the projects are buried under bureaucracy and our economy is declining? In this sense, unfortunately, the government is taking steps in the wrong direction, even here. And, Mr President, it is quite clear that, even if steps could be taken in the wrong direction, when they are now being taken on such a large front by the government, then unfortunately, at the end of the road there is a decline in the national economy, over-indebtedness and, in the worst case, the collapse of our welfare society as a whole, when the necessary investments needed to finance future prosperity cannot be made. In this respect, the fundamental question raised in several good speeches is this: why was the government not more vigorous in justifying in the EU that the legislation already in force in Finland met these requirements of the EIA directive in this regard? In this respect, I am afraid that this government's inefficiencies are actually slowing down the projects, despite the good intentions that Mrs Torniainen had entered in this report there. Of course, I appreciate the fact that the idea is involved, but unfortunately, actions are taking the wrong direction. All in all, Mr President, I think that Finland has the best environmental legislation in the world. We have these different environmental requirements at the highest level, and it is great if Finland can set an example for all mankind in how we can live sustainablely, in balance with our planet. But it also requires Finland to be one of the most successful countries in the world, a country we want to take as an example. And then we must come to investment, we must have jobs, jobs that produce a high level of well-being and a standard of living, so that we can be modelled, and in this sense I am afraid that this unacceptable demonstration of democracy and democracy is taking things in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u106	Congressman Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u107	Mr President! As Mrs Torniainen has said here, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection went through the matter carefully and indeed, on the basis of the consultations, it came to the conclusion that the implementation of the EIA directive now clearly requires an extension of the right of appeal, and that is why this amendment is justified. However, the committee was equally united in the concerns that, while ensuring the adequacy of the procedures for participation, care should be taken to ensure the timeliness of the impact and the clarity and smoothness of the authorisation procedures. I would add that the citizens have a constitutional right to participate and influence, and we must ensure that this is done. The aim of all of us is certainly to streamline the processes, but at the same time we must ensure careful and comprehensive preparation. I do believe that good and thorough preparation can also influence the number of complaints and eliminate unnecessary complaints. And, as has been said many times here, it is important to ensure that we have sufficient resources, both for the authorities and for the courts, so that any complaints can be dealt with quickly, so that there are no further delays.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u108	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u109	Mr President! Here I familiarized myself with this government proposal, and mostly now came to me with such very small questions when here there have been all sorts of forms of support at this time. If oil heating has moved away and moved to, for example, air heat pump heating or geothermal heat, then there has been support for it, and these have been conditional on its oil heating being removed, and many questions have come from people as to whether it is necessary to do so to eliminate oil heating. Here is a bill that would set the minimum calculated energy requirements for renewable energy for the total energy needs of new buildings and buildings that are to be largely repaired, but here in the text of the law I did not find directly that, if we move to that side of renewable energy, oil heating should be removed from that house or building. From the point of view of security of supply, conservation would be a smart thing, and probably more would have gone to ground heat by now if they had a clear credit that some replacement system worked better. Then this sort of thing here also came up: Here on page 6 of the introduction text, it is said that in the new buildings started in 2020 light fuel oil was declared as a heat source in 69 buildings, gas in 12 buildings and peat in 15 buildings. What is this gas, is it now separated somehow from biogas, and should it be isolated in some way? In my opinion, if the building law were to be changed to this direction of environmentally friendly fuels of this kind, then it would have been quite important and just as with common sense thinking that the new buildings, which are being built — whether with ground heat or air heat pump or an exhaust air heat pump — would be built into some kind of fireplace, just in terms of security of supply.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u110	Congressman Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u111	Mr President! Representatives of the government parties and members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection Torniainen and Elo have just expressed the pious hope that this change is not intended to slow down processes. Now, however, whenever the right of appeal and the circle of those entitled to it are increased and extended, that means in practice delaying these important projects, in this case the construction of wind power, which is very important for Finland. And I am a little surprised that if you agree that the aim is not to slow these projects down, that is why you did not support in committee the draft statement by the Coalition Party calling for the Government to clarify and streamline the appeals and appeals procedures of the Land Use and Construction Act, even in accordance with the Government Programme. So when the government programme has also committed itself to this objective, why was there no support for this statement in committee? Then I would like to return to this assessment of compliance with EU law and the procedure before it. In this infringement procedure, the first step is the Commission's letter of formal notice, in which the Commission asks the Member State to provide explanations which must be given within a certain time limit. In this report, therefore, there is an opportunity for a Member State to justify why the existing law, the right of a Member State, meets the requirements of EU law, and only then, if these answers do not satisfy the Commission, will the Commission issue an actual note, that is, an official invitation to the Member State to comply with EU law. Then, even in this situation, if a Member State is not satisfied with the Commission's position, there will be an actual infringement action before the European Court of Justice, and it is not, in fact, unusual for a Member State to maintain its position on EU law and defend it before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Unfortunately, it is time and again that Finland, as a good student, does not do so and does not struggle with the Commission, but always after this first stage, i.e. after its official announcement, is already rushing to tell the Commission that we will now improve our ways and correct our laws. We should be bolder to defend that Finnish law and its compliance with EU law and, if necessary, do it in the proceedings of the EU Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u112	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u113	Mr President! We have had a good debate on this government proposal and, as I said in my own speech, there are actually three parts of this government proposal: the section on which there has been a large-scale debate on this Yva legislative amendment that is required, and then the section on which the representative is represented. Mäenpää brought out with great merit what comes with these renovations and renovations and then large-scale renovations. In my opinion, it is very good in the section that it has now also defined what is meant by large-scale renovation and what the percentage of the building being repaired is 'wide-scale'. Well, then, as far as this one section of the debate on this EU directive is concerned, based on this Yva legislative procedure, my position is also that, yes, Finland must follow what is also decided in the EU, not simply those things, but those messages can also be passed on to its own countries, so that we do not make such drastic decisions in the EU, which then apply to all of us EU countries as well. I personally hope that the message will also be taken to that end.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u116	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u117	Mr President! I'll take up a little of what Mr. Mäenpää said. I myself have a very clear example of this air-to-water system. The price installed was EUR 6700, but I do not understand that it is absolutely necessary to remove the oil tank, the central heating boiler and the pipeline from the oil tank until it is possible to obtain this compensation of EUR 4000. It would be much more sensible to take advantage of this EUR 4000 from air to water system, which would leave the population much less responsible. However, no one would use that oil heating other than in an extreme emergency if there were simply such cold weather that this air-to-water system was not enough, or if there was a major disturbance. In other words, I think that this would be much more sensible if the system were to remain there. It's just an emergency. This would significantly speed up the purchase of air heat pumps or ground heat or air-to-water systems in such a situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u119	And Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u120	Mr President! It is right that this government proposal may have overlooked too little the fact that we are going into a very precarious situation with wind power, because that is what it is doing. Of course, the amount of wind power can be increased — that is what I support. The place has to be chosen correctly, and environmental impact assessments will probably be carried out there, but the most important thing I would consider is that when wind power plans are made anywhere, the municipality will go through it itself. I have seen a phenomenon in the constituency of North Karelia and North Savo, i.e. Savo-Karjala, that it evokes strong feelings where you can't do what you can't do, but when you make rational planning in the whole municipality where you can have wind turbines where you can't do it, then you get it. It is a dispute, but the indisputable fact is that these large windmills of three or four megawatts, which hold a certain low frequency infrasound, are causing certain problems for the most sensitive people, certainly, and have now been awakened. I personally do not agree with the way in which windmills are placed away from this so-called dense population settlement and taken to rural communities where people are taken away from home. We have to look at the place right, and let the municipality plan the areas where wind power is allowed and where it is not allowed to be. Another thing that Mrs Torniainen quite well noted in her speech is that there are certain aspects of the Defence Forces on the eastern border which must be taken into account. That's the right point. It is precisely that air traffic control needs an undisturbed environment to function reliably, and that too must be taken into account. Thirdly, and lastly, on this point, I have wondered about the hearing and the speeches in this House. When wind power is being built, I have wondered where the control force is, because if wind power is being made and there is no control power, the system is a torso. Today, on a calm evening, it may be that 100 megawatts of wind power are produced and 2000 megawatts imported from abroad, and in that situation, 2000 megawatts, there are enormous difficulties for the entire energy system. I wish this job would come to some sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u121	Like this. — and Mrs Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u122	Thank you, Mr President. As has been heard here, this is a three-part technical change, but although the objective is to make it smoother, it seems that instead of streamlining, regulation is becoming more and more complex. The aim of the Act was precisely the opposite, and this draft law should also define in more detail, for example, what is meant by technical, operational and economic factors which would allow for a derogation from the minimum renewable energy share requirement. In order to obtain a building permit for these, there must be a level playing field for those entering into a construction project and this does not seem to be the case. In the preparation of the legislative amendment, consideration should be given to fairness and equal treatment of the various projects. What Mr Hoskonen said about wind power and the power it requires is exactly that, and it is also a major part of our security of supply in energy supply. We need our own energy in the future and therefore our self-sufficiency in energy production should be increased. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u124	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u125	Mr President! That speech by Congressman Hoskose was like music to the ears,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-119.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
