ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which the Committee on Defence must deliver an opinion. After the presentation by Mr Haavisto, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches that have been requested in advance. Group speeches shall begin with a maximum of 5 minutes. Other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, I can give you answers in the order in which I consider it. Up to 2 hours are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Haavisto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u2	Mr President! On the basis of a report to the Parliament, Parliament will be consulted in accordance with the Military Crisis Management Act on the continuation of Finland's participation in the International Coalition Against Isisi Crisis Management Mission in Iraq. The report also provides an overview of the NATO training mission in Iraq, the NMI, which is being prepared to expand. The International Coalition against Isis was established in 2014. Finland has been involved in the coalition since the beginning and is also part of its small group. The coalition has 83 members and its activities are based on UN Security Council resolutions to prevent the threat posed by ISIS. Finland has participated in the coalition military crisis management operation since 2015. Since 2017, Finland’s training and advice has concerned not only the Peshmerga forces of the Kurds in Northern Iraq but also security forces under the Iraqi central government elsewhere in the Iraqi region. Mr President! The situation in Iraq has changed considerably since the International Coalition started supporting the Iraqi Government and security forces seven years ago. Isis has been declared defeated after losing its land in Iraq in December 2017. This enabled the return and reconstruction of internally displaced persons to start. It is estimated that there are around 4.8 million returnees, but there are still some 1.2 million internal refugees in Iraq. The stabilisation of the ISIS regions will continue to be a prerequisite for returning to and remaining in the region of origin. The support of the international community for this remains necessary. The security situation in Iraq has improved since the military defeat of ISIS, but it remains fragile and vulnerable to change. Although Isis no longer owns land, it still has supporters and sleepers in Iraq. The work of the anti-ISIS coalition to support the Iraqi security forces, develop the security sector in the country and stabilise the security situation remains necessary in this situation. Early parliamentary elections took place in Iraq on 10 October. The elections were a response to the demonstrations that continued since 2019, where Iraqis demanded government action against corruption and better basic services and jobs. The elections were mostly peaceful, and no electoral fraud was detected. Voting turnout remained low, however, at about 43 per cent. Since the election, the atmosphere has been tense. The preliminary outcome of the elections has been called into question in particular by those parties that are losing their positions. It should take weeks to confirm the official election results. There have been some demonstrations in Baghdad since the elections. Security measures have been increased since the attack on the Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhim's residence on 7 November 2021. The international community strongly condemned the attack. Iraq’s public finances are in considerable difficulties and the health system has been burdened by the corona pandemic. In parallel with economic and social reforms, it would be important to step up efforts to combat corruption, to improve cooperation between the Iraqi central government and the Kurdish Autonomous Community and to reform the security sector. Finland aims to support the stabilisation and reconstruction of Iraq in a comprehensive manner. The Finnish Embassy in Baghdad was reopened in 2019. Finland’s development and humanitarian aid to Iraq has been around EUR 38 million since 2014. Finland supports Iraq The stabilisation of the ISIS regions through the UN Development Programme (UNDP) stabilisation fund and humanitarian mine clearance. UNDP support will enable local populations to return to their homes in a sustainable way. This includes infrastructure projects such as the rehabilitation of schools and health centres, support for small entrepreneurship and reconciliation in local communities. Finland also participates in the EUAM Iraq civilian crisis management operation in Iraq. The mission will support the development of the security sector in Iraq by supporting the Iraqi Ministry of the Interior and the National Security Adviser’s Office. Finnish experts are well represented in the operation: there are five Finnish experts, and the Deputy Head of Mission is Finnish. The Head of the EU Delegation in Baghdad is also a Finnish citizen. The restoration of Iraq's stability and security and the fight against ISIS are important for Iraq's stability and hence also for regional stability, but also for the security of Finland and Europe. Despite his lost position, Isis is still capable of carrying out terrorist attacks. Mr President! Finland is also participating in the NATO NMI mission in Iraq. A valid national decision to participate in it will allow five soldiers to participate. At the moment, three Finnish soldiers are operating in the operation. The NMI complements the efforts of the ISIS coalition and other international actors, focusing on strategic advice and support for the reform of the Iraqi defence sector. In its final phase and largely achieved objective, NATO has prepared to strengthen its own training mission in Iraq. The objective of the NATO mission has been to ensure continuity of international support for the security sector in Iraq in the future and to respond to the training needs identified by the Iraqi Government. Finland also expects that the focus of military crisis management will be: There will be a transfer from the OR to the NMI mission in Iraq. As the expansion of the NATO training mission progresses to this stage, Finland's level of participation will be dealt with in accordance with the Military Crisis Management Act. Mr President! As set out in the report, Finland would continue its education and advice activities in the security sector in Iraq. Our participation in the ORI mission would continue from 1 January 2022 with the current strength of some 75 soldiers until the end of 2022. As in the past, participation would include training and advisory activities, self-protection and national support and maintenance components. It is estimated that the total cost of participation in 22 would be around EUR 15.7 million, of which EUR 8.4 million in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs section and EUR 7.3 million in the Ministry of Defence section. The continuation of participation may be carried out in accordance with the Government’s budgetary plan for the year 21 to 24. The training provided by Finns has improved the ability of the trained forces to act as an entire unit and to develop the ability to cope in a combat situation. It has also developed the capability of troops to better manage security situations and areas. Mr President! Finally, by participating in education and training cooperation in the security sector in Iraq: Finland contributes to the fight against international terrorism and Isis. Participation also develops the capabilities of our national defence. The coalition's comprehensive action aims to support the improvement of the security situation in Iraq. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u3	Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u4	Mr President! In the multilateral world, stability and security are built on common aspirations. International cooperation is therefore an essential means of tackling the threats of peace and cross-border threats. This is also the case with terrorism. Finland has been working for years to combat and eradicate international terrorism in Iraq. The country's stability also has a direct impact on the security of Europe and Finland. It is important to engage fully in measures to support the stabilisation of Iraq, as the country's security situation remains fragile and vulnerable to rapid change. For this reason, Finland will continue to participate in the ORI operation with 75 soldiers until the end of 2022. In addition to the OIR mission in Iraq, Finland participates in the NMI training operation, which is led by NATO. Both operations are aimed at strengthening the capacity of Iraq's own security forces to counter the threat of ISIS and to bring stability to society. The aim in the future is to respond more effectively to the needs of the country's own security sector and thus to create more lasting peace. The reconstruction of societies is never easy. As far as Iraq is concerned, it is a process of decades which requires military and civilian crisis management, development cooperation and the promotion of economic growth. The aim is to strengthen the country’s independent capacity to maintain stability and security. Finland is also involved in the European Union civilian crisis management operation in Iraq. In addition, Finland promotes the development of the country through the UNDP Stability Fund. Mr President! Although stability has taken place in Iraq step by step, the security situation remains regionally diverse and sensitive to internal tensions. As described in the report, there are still thousands of Isis supporters and sleeping branches in the area. Recent attacks have been particularly targeted at military and police targets. More than 1.2 million Iraqis are still awaiting their return as internally displaced persons. A terrorist movement such as Isis is skilled at exploiting the uncertainty and discontent of people’s future. As the whole world witnessed in Afghanistan, stability can be just yesterday. The premature withdrawal of troops could also have fatal consequences in Iraq. The objective of the ongoing fourth phase of the mission is to stabilise the security situation. The report identifies the continuing need for comprehensive and long-term support for reconstruction in Iraq. When considering the future of crisis management, it is important to draw lessons from the situation in Afghanistan and make use of in-depth research by researchers. This concerns the clarification of the objectives of the operations and the more effective adaptation to the current operating environment. As was learned from Afghanistan, if withdrawal is not carefully planned, there is a risk of years of work being scrapped. Mr President! In line with the report and in line with the security situation in Iraq, the Social Democratic Parliament supports Finland's continued participation in education and training cooperation in the security sector in Iraq next year. The OIR mission will give us two-way value. By strengthening peace, we are taking on the background influences of migration. Participation will develop national defence capabilities, providing valuable experience with advisory tasks in an international operation. As crises and conflicts become more complex, Finland’s strength to rebuild societies is our comprehensive vision of peace work. Society will be made whole by strengthening democracy, eradicating corruption and investing in education and improving the knowledge of citizens. Our presence in Iraq represents Finland's comprehensive approach to sustainable stability.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u6	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u7	Madam President! Group statement by the Finnish People's Parliament Group. The President of the Republic and the Prime Minister's Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security Policy set out the 11th line. On 1 November, Finland will continue to participate in the OIR crisis management operation in Iraq with some 75 soldiers until the end of 2022. This includes participation in training and advisory tasks, as well as the necessary headquarters, administration and support tasks in Iraq. In 2014, Isis declared the establishment of a Caliphate extending to the territories of Iraq and Syria. In September 2014, an international coalition against ISIS, led by the United States, was established to support Iraq. Finland joined the coalition in the same year. The ISIS regime collapsed in 2019, but the organisation itself has not been defeated. Isis has been driven underground, from which it is active throughout Iraq. There are still many violent radical cells organized by the organization and they are constantly planning new attacks. Fathers have a lot of resources and are increasingly involved in legitimate business. There are also heirs to ISIS in camps and prisons. People are being held captive in large concentrations, with up to thousands of people. This increases the threat of violence and enables the survival and widespread spread of the ideas of ISIS. Although it is now safer in Iraq than it was in the reign of terror in ISIS, it left behind destroyed residential areas and widespread social turmoil. The present regime is characterised by arbitrariness and deep corruption, and it occurs at all levels of society from the highest to the lowest levels of civil service. The courts do whatever they want, and the public's confidence in the justice system is very weak. The problems in Iraq affect almost all sectors of society. In addition, the tensions of Shia and Sunni are still serious and deep. In order to understand the impact of the Iraqi environment and crisis management work in the country, it is also necessary to identify the extremely complex networks of the country. Finland and the European Union must carefully consider what kind of support is given to the various actors in the country and where the support actually flows. It is good to remember that the country is still a field of play for the outside world. It is particularly important to monitor closely what the Iraq policy of the US President, Joe Biden, will eventually become. Despite differing opinions, Mr Biden has said that he will withdraw his troops from combat missions in Iraq by the end of this year. Biden has stated that in the future the role of the United States will be in training and support, so that Iraq can continue to fight for itself. Against the fathers. Mr President! The objective of the so-called fourth phase of the ORI mission is to stabilise the security situation, which is estimated to last between 12 and 24 months. It can even be said to be hopelessly optimistic in a country with an extremely fragile and unstable social system. According to the report, the objective in the future is to reverse the ORI operation and concentrate its operations on NATO. The reason for this is that it is not necessary to maintain two parallel training missions. One larger NATO operation will certainly also benefit Finland from the perspective of political-military dialogue. One of the central objectives of the coalition against ISIS has been to prevent foreign fighters from entering Syria and Iraq. The main instruments have been border and police cooperation and legislative changes. In practice, the number of foreign fighters coming to Iraq and Syria has dwindled. The results of the coalition have been good in many respects, and the training always serves the trainer. Finnish troops have gained valuable experience from Iraq, which also benefits national defence capabilities and provides new tools to combat Islamic radicalisation. Mr President! The Finns Party continues to support participation in the operation because it plays an important role in the fight against international terrorism and ISIS. The stabilisation of Iraq is in the interests of Finland and also of the world as a whole. It also has direct implications for Finland’s internal security. By improving the security situation in Iraq, we are also tackling the problems of mass migration. True Finns feel that people should be helped in their home country to achieve conditions that do not need to escape to Europe. It is the most durable and lasting way for all to help. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u8	Congressman Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u9	Mr President! Peacekeeping and crisis management are an important part of Finland’s foreign and security policy. Finland’s participation in international crisis management operations is justified by the promotion of social peace in conflict countries and the strengthening of the rule of law and democracy. By strengthening the rule of law in Iraq and stabilising the security situation, we are building conditions for lasting peace. We will thus influence the root causes of international terrorism and migration. By participating in crisis management operations, we will also improve the international interoperability of our defence, which will benefit domestic defence. All of this contributes to strengthening Finland’s national security. This is the whole issue of our security cooperation in Iraq. The intention is that Finland will continue to participate in the ORI operation with approximately 75 soldiers next year. The parliamentary group of the Coalition Party is in principle in favour of this approach. Mr President! Finland has been strongly involved in the operation of the ORI since 2015. The mission is primarily about supporting Iraq in the fight against terrorism and stabilising the security situation in the country. Operation of the coalition Iraq has been comprehensive. Military action against the ISIS has been most visible, but the work has also focused on the reconstruction of the country and humanitarian aid. As a result of the operation, ISIS's operating conditions have deteriorated. Some of the fighters will remain in the Middle East, but some will head from there towards Europe. Isis' ideological players continue to pose a serious threat to regional and global security. Isis' propaganda encourages attacks against the West. The threat also applies to Finland. This underlines our national need to maintain a situation picture of the development of ISIS' activities. Mr President! Security cooperation with Iraq is not without problems. In addition to ISIS, Iraq is being undermined by numerous armed groups in the country. In order to achieve the objectives of the Iraqi environment and the country's crisis management work, it is important to identify the complex networks of the country. We need to think about what kind of support is being given to the various actors in the country and who will eventually receive it so that we do not accidentally promote them instead of stamping out corruption and instability. In order to achieve the objectives of the mission, we must identify and manage to solve these problems. Finland must also consider ways of increasing pressure on the Iraqi Government to take responsibility for the situation in its country. There is also the question of a return policy for Iraqi citizens. In Finland, Iraqis are the largest group of asylum seekers. Finland’s financial and other assistance to Iraq has been extensive. However, it is unacceptable that Finland does not have a return agreement with Iraq and that Iraq has refused to accept back its own citizens. This cannot continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u12	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u13	Madam President! There is now a seventh report on Iraq in the Parliament's deliberations. Finland has participated in the operation in Iraq since 2015. By participating in the mission, we will fight terrorism, strengthen stability and security, and develop the capabilities of our Defence Forces. General military service and expertise acquired in the reserve provide a strong basis for our crisis management expertise. The mission combines international responsibility and the needs of national defence. Despite years of operation, the security situation in Iraq remains fragile. Although Isis has been declared defeated, it is still able to carry out terrorist attacks in Iraq. We have to try to stop this. The Parliamentary Group of the Centre Party stresses the importance of ensuring the safety of Finnish soldiers involved in the operation. Finns participating in the crisis management operation are doing important work under demanding conditions. The protection and equipment must be in order. Finnish crisis management teams work with the best equipment possible. This must continue to be taken care of. Mr President! We will continue to participate in the operation mainly in the Kurdish region of Erbil. The most dangerous security situation is north of Baghdad. We're not taking part in a training operation on the frontline. Comprehensive action in Iraq has produced results, but the presence of the coalition is still needed. The economic situation in Iraq has continued to be weak. The role of the OIR mission is to contribute to stability in the country and also to ensuring that people do not have to go for a better life in Europe. In Finland too, Iraqis are the largest group of asylum seekers. The stabilisation of Iraq requires military and civilian crisis management, development cooperation, trade policy, diplomacy, functioning institutions and political reconstruction. A better, more politically stable and economically self-sufficient Iraq would not be a source of uncontrolled migration. Everything has to do with everything. Furthermore, in a more stable Iraq, the public would not be so vulnerable to the hybrid influence that Belarus committed by attracting and flying mainly the Iraqi Kurds on false grounds to Belarus and from there to the Polish border. Mr President! The NATO operation is being expanded in Iraq, as the country has asked NATO to make a stronger contribution to education. The NATO mission is more acceptable than the US-led OR mission in Iraq. The reduction of the ORI and the reduction of tasks will lead to a corresponding extension of the NATO mission. It is possible that Finland will continue with the ORI operation now to be completed in full until the end of 2022. The central parliamentary group sees it as important — when the focus is shifted from the OR to the NATO mission — that the committee should look at whether the mission is more acceptable to the Iraqi people, especially under the auspices of NATO. This will also be relevant to the conditions for Finland’s participation in the future. Finland's participation in the NATO training mission would further strengthen our interoperability in the multinational operation with our close allies. This would play an important role in the development of international crisis management expertise and the networking of national defence capabilities. Participation in international crisis management is an integral part of Finland’s foreign, security and defence policy. The central parliamentary group supports Finland's continued participation in the Iraq operation by some 75 soldiers for the next year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u14	Congressman Holopainen, Hanna.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u15	Mr President! Iraq is Europe's immediate neighbour. The stability or instability of Iraq has a direct impact on the security of both the Gulf region and Europe and, consequently, Finland. The situation picture in this report gives us particularly important information so that we can better understand Finland's continued participation in security sector education cooperation in Iraq. At the request of the Iraqi Government, the ORI mission will be conducted and the participating countries have agreed on the status of forces bilaterally with the Iraqi Government. The legitimacy of the OIR mission is aimed at the overthrow of the terrorist organisation Isis through the support of the security authorities in the autonomous Kurdish region of Iraq and Iraq. The mission is based on a UN Security Council resolution highlighting the need for active cooperation between UN Member States to combat ISIS. Although the terrorist organisation has lost its territory, it still has supporters and the ability to make individual attacks. Finland has considered it important to engage fully in measures to support the stabilisation of Iraq. Finland already supports the stabilisation of Iraq, including through development cooperation, funding humanitarian mine activities and participation in military and civilian crisis management. Mr President! On the basis of the report, we can be cautiously optimistic about the future of Iraq. Iraq's own and international efforts to calm the country have begun to influence. One indication of the loss of action is that development has enabled the return of millions of internally displaced persons. The stabilisation of the ISIS regions will continue to be a prerequisite for returning to and remaining in the region of origin. Another indication of the success of the measures is that there have been parliamentary elections in October, which were mostly peaceful. Iraq now, at least in principle, has the opportunity to move towards more peaceful times. However, the country is very unstable and needs broad-based and long-term support to stabilise and rebuild society. According to the report, the situation in the country may also deteriorate. The key to internal stability is the reform of the security sector. That is what Finland supports. In this respect, we are at the heart of the peace building in the region. Mr President! The many problems in Iraq have been reflected in the number of asylum seekers who are seeking asylum in Europe. According to the report, Iraqis in Finland are the largest group of asylum seekers. And although the number of asylum seekers has fallen, Iraq is still not a safe country for everyone. In 2020 the Finnish Immigration Service granted 683 Iraqi applicants international protection and 98 applicants another residence permit. Often, public debate calls for the help of refugees in their countries of origin. This is what the operations of Finland and international partners in Iraq support. Mr President! Iraq has been a major export country to Finland in the past decades. However, the recovery of trade relations requires a significant stabilisation of the country. According to the reconstruction plan, Iraq’s oil revenues would be directed towards the development of basic social and economic infrastructure, such as electricity generation, telecommunications networks and water systems, health and education, and an increase in the private sector’s share of the country’s economy. This work will certainly also be useful for the competence of Finnish companies. Mr President! These reports received by Parliament are a really important tool for us decision-makers to monitor Finnish crisis management in the world. At the same time, the reports also illustrate the long curves and prospects of the development of unstable regions. What happened in Afghanistan is an example of the fact that the political and public debate was perhaps partly separate from what the situation in the country and the area in which the Finnish troops were operating really was. The picture of the situation in this report seems very realistic and has been successful as a whole. The report describes the nature, history and environment of the operation better than the previous one. However, perhaps a long arch of how Finland has been involved in the operation and what the future looks like could have been opened even more widely. Mr President! As an important individual issue, the Green Group points out the importance of support and rehabilitation for those involved in crisis management. These professional soldiers and reservists and the civilians who supported them are implementing the Finnish foreign and security policy in practice and deserve praise and support for it. The Finnish Peacekeeper Association also deserves support and praise. The Green Parliamentary Group thanks these veterans of the new era and supports the actions of Finland's foreign, security and defence policy as reported in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u16	Congressman Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u17	Mr President! First of all, the decision-making process and its consistency in terms of participation in various international operations: the decision-making process in the various stages of the ORI operation has been based on reports. Similarly, participation in a parallel NATO training operation was linked to the reporting procedure, although at the beginning only one staff officer was involved. Only an investigation was carried out of the participation in the Malian mission, although the security situation in Mali and neighbouring countries is very weak and is deteriorating. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence pointed this out and required that, in the event of an extension or extension of the Finnish mission participation, the reporting procedure is necessary. But to the point. It is important that Finland assumes international responsibility and actively participates in peacekeeping and crisis management. The ISIS had to be stopped and its military force destroyed. We should now be able to stabilise the security situation. It is not possible to find a way to lasting peace in Iraq unless the whole of society is stabilized. It will not be easy when central government and provinces are competing for resources to exploit natural resources. The Iraqi regime is failing, the political system is weak and participation in elections at a low level is likely to reflect the credibility of the political system. In addition to the central security forces, Iraq has dormant ISIS cells, paramilitary forces, and the distribution of power by the Kurds who played an important role in the overthrow of ISIS is not yet in a democraticly acceptable condition. Iraq is living under pressure from neighbouring countries. There are refugees both in Iraq and beyond the borders of the country. Prisoners living in prison camps without trial constitute a suitable recruitment destination for extremist groups. The prerequisites for Finland’s participation must be assessed, and it is necessary to prepare for changes in the operating environment and independent solutions. Mr President! The report describes the security situation in Iraq as contradictory. On the one hand, it is said that the security situation has improved but is still fragile, varies from region to region and is vulnerable to rapid changes, on the other hand, that the overall situation continues to be unstable and possibly deteriorating. It is also noted that, in addition to drone attacks and improvised explosives, there is a threat of direct armed attack. However, the security situation in the autonomous Kurdish region of Iraq is better than in the rest of the country. When participating in international crisis management tasks, a decision must always be made with thorough consideration. We must also consider what is the best input—output-relationship between Finland and the destination country. And the question may be asked whether Finland is breaking up its resources in too many parts. In civilian crisis management, Finland’s role and expertise would be strongest. Education, promotion of commercial cooperation, building a functioning political system and administration and reconstruction are natural elements for Finland. The aim must be to ensure that Iraq's security is carried out by its own authorities as soon as possible. Mr President! In order to understand the situation in each of the countries concerned, things need to be looked at in the longer term. The history of Iraq is warring for decades. The question must also be asked as to the basis for the rise of terrorism in 2003 by means of a mass bombing of Iraq. The attack was justified by weapons of mass destruction, which were not found after all. There was no clear plan for the postwar period, and it later came back. In Iraq, the transition from the OIR operation to the NMI operation led by NATO, in which Finland joined earlier with little talk. The NMI mission is said to appear more acceptable in the eyes of the Iraqis, because Shia rebels, for example, are calling for American troops to leave the country. The question is whether any lessons were learnt from the 20-year experience in Afghanistan. As a militarily non-aligned country, Finland has a greater room for manoeuvre as a peacekeeper in international crises. Anyone who is a party to the war is automatically stigmatised and loses its role as a neutral player. And remember that Iraq was an important export country for Finland for decades.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u18	Congressman Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u19	Madam President! Finland is not a passive bystander of the international stage and does not close its eyes to problems. We must work on the issues in which we believe, namely human rights, non-governmental organisations and the rule of law. Globally, international operations are needed to solve these problems. Finland is able and willing to take initiative in resolving conflicts, and we have a lot of experience with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u20	Madam President! This report contains both good news and bad news. The good news is that the power of ISIS has deteriorated considerably and that the ORI has progressed to its final phase, the stabilisation of the security situation. The bad news, however, is that the situation in Iraq is still fragile and there are sleeping cells in Isis. We're living in a time of intense power relations. The United States is not everywhere showing itself as a desirable benefactor, and in terms of internal politics it is a sensitive issue in Iraq. The government has asked for help, but Parliament's message has been different. It is self-evident that the safety of Finnish soldiers must be ensured and they must have adequate equipment and power rights for self-defence. Although the situation in Iraq is not identical to that in Afghanistan, it is worth acknowledging that since the last time we discussed Iraq, the international community has suffered a profound failure in its intervention in Afghanistan. We must learn from it and it must reflect our actions. We must not find ourselves in a situation where we find that the training and resources we have provided have fallen into the wrong hands. It is therefore important that Finland's participation is strictly limited. One of the reasons for Finland’s participation in the mission is to influence not only the fight against terrorism but also the underlying causes of migration. Let's just say there's no need to leave a safe area. However, the Iraqis are currently being seen in large numbers at the EU borders brought by Belarus. Many of them have left the region of Kurdistan, Iraq, which is peaceful compared to other regions of the country. In the media, people tell us that they have no future in Iraq because there is no work and corruption flourishes. The prolonged crisis has made them vulnerable, among other things, to such hybridisation. As in previous years when the report is being discussed, it is now necessary to ask the government what it is doing to achieve a return agreement with Iraq. Mr President! With the aim of stabilising society, other activities will become increasingly important alongside the security sector and military training. A society whose structures do not work or where people do not have a livelihood is not safe, no matter how competent the security forces are. Getting the private sector on its feet is vital for the future of the country. Development cooperation can help to improve the education sector, which also plays an important role in the democratic process. Judging by the low turnout in the elections, young people do not believe in influence through the political system, which is something to be worried about. Many of Isis’ actions have had to see things that the human mind cannot bear. That is why psychosocial support is also needed in the region. A young generation needs fins to live free from trauma and horrors of atrocities. It takes faith, faith in the future. Mr President! It is often said that people must be helped in their own country. This operation is part of it. It is in everyone's interest that Iraq's society should be strengthened and that the conditions for its citizens should improve. However, we cannot do this on behalf of the Iraqis; such a change is not sustainable. The Iraqis themselves have the keys forward. The threat of terrorism is common and we must work hard together to eradicate it. The Christian Democratic Parliament Group supports the continuation of Finland's participation in the operation. We hope that the need for it will be short. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u21	Like this. — And then Minister Haavisto, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u22	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the parliamentary groups for their excellent contributions, of which there was very broad support for this report's approach and for the Finnish peacekeepers, who are doing important work in Iraq. They certainly deserve and need all the support this hall can give them in this work. More than one representative addressed the root causes: how to address the root causes of conflicts and problems, whether it be migration or terrorism. I agree with the representatives of Niemi and Savola, Vikman and Tanus precisely that this is the root cause of what we are doing here. We are on the move there, we are trying to prevent the escalation of the conflict, we are trying to prevent the emergence of new flows of refugees, we are trying to prevent people from leaving their homes. Many here also asked about the return of the Iraqis. If I tell you the good news first — we have a return agreement within the framework of the EU. If I tell you the bad news, Iraq will not comply with that return agreement. At present, not all Iraqis are taken back from any European country. Iraq has made an exception here, so that those who return voluntarily are taken and those who commit crimes are taken. What is the reason why Iraq is not complying with this agreement with the EU is certainly something that can be discussed for a long time. I understand that the question is, among other things, whether Iraq is prepared to take back the tens of thousands of Iraqis in Syria and how it sees the security risks of these people. This is also a complex issue. I agree with the people that Iraq should follow this. Self-protection and the safety of our soldiers were addressed in many speeches, in particular by Mr Savola and Mr Tanus. Finland has strengthened, among other things, a base close to Arbil Airport in this sense, in how it can withstand various attacks and various military measures. The situation has not always been peaceful in that area either. It was also well pointed out that more than military and civilian crisis management is needed to stabilise Iraq. There has been demining, there has been development cooperation, but above all there is a need for the economic cooperation that has been well achieved with Iraq in the past. The representatives of Holopainen and Ollikainen and Vikman well described this. And the protection of minorities, which, above all, was raised in Mr Ollikai's speech on the subject of the sirens, is extremely important. Today, here in Parliament, many of us have heard and met Nadia Murad, and she has told us about the harsh treatment that the Siiden minority in the country has received. Finally, many compared this with the situation in Afghanistan and the doctrines in Afghanistan, and I agree that when the international community is planning to leave, it must be a well-designed, coordinated, well thought-out measure. I am sure it will sometimes come up against Iraq, and hopefully it will go in a more coordinated way than we have seen in Afghanistan. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u23	Like this. — I would like to ask whether there is a willingness to debat, and it seems to be, so I would ask those representatives who wish to take part in the debat, to stand up and to ask for the floor using the V button. — Debatin will begin by Mr Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u24	Mr President! A number of speakers raised the issue of Iraq's contradictory attitude towards the International Corps and, in particular, the United States. First of all, the Iraqi Parliament adopted a resolution calling for the removal of international troops from the country — but the government did not take any decisions in accordance with this resolution. Since then, the Iraqi Government has repeatedly stated that it needs the support of international troops and experts. Now we are moving from the OR to the NMI mission and, as many have said, this appears to be a more acceptable activity in Iraq. Mr Savola raised an interesting point of view that we could, as it were, be sure that the NMI mission was also acceptable in Iraq. This is certainly difficult, knowing the situation in Iraq, but how does Minister Haavisto see it?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u25	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u26	Thank you, Madam President! In my previous speech, I spoke about Finland's involvement in stabilising conflict points in the Far East. I believe that we should also look at this in another direction: how we support the sustainable security of our own country and how we ensure people in these operations. The Finnish will to defend the country is the highest in Europe. By supporting justice, our national identity and our commitment to our home, the will for defence will rise. Our reserve mentality has traditions in Finland. It unites citizens. I hope for greater investment and funding to support the even more diverse activities and training of the reservists, taking into account, for example, this ban on lead. There should be an exception to this in order to allow for reserve training. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u27	Congressman Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u28	Mr President! Finland’s financial and other assistance to Iraq has been extensive. However, it is intolerable that Finland does not have a return agreement in force with Iraq and that Iraq has refused to accept back its own citizens who have received a negative asylum decision. Our asylum system cannot function fairly without an effective return policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u31	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u32	Madam President! When you read this report — and also on the basis of this debate, which has taken place — you can see that this ORI operation, a US-led operation, is becoming a NATO-led operation. I would now like to ask, Mr Foreign Minister, how Finland will be preparing for this continuation of the operation after this ORI: are we involved, and what discussions will you have on the continuation of the operation at that stage? In my opinion, this is a crisis management mission of the kind that Finland should be involved in when considering all the operations in which Finland is involved in crisis management tasks. These are our partners, including Sweden and Australia as NATO partners, and if this goes into a NATO-led operation, then
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u33	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u34	Madam President! Finland has a well-known history in mediation and crisis management. Finland must continue to be active in conflict prevention and peace building. As a small country, it is up to us to build bridges between the various players that contribute to global stability. Finland’s participation in the ORI mission supports this objective. The objective of the OIR mission is to stabilise the security situation in Iraq through international cooperation. Finland’s participation will focus on training and advisory activities aimed at strengthening the capacity of the Iraqi and Iraqi autonomous Kurdish security forces to combat: Isis and support government control, regional security and stability in Iraq. The world has become a smaller place than ever. Regional conflicts and instability always have immediate and indirect effects in a globally networked society. This is why building and maintaining stability also serves the interests of us Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u35	Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u36	Madam President! Although the situation in Iraq is not identical to that in Afghanistan, we need to learn from the experience of the Afghan operation. The training and resources we provide must not fall into the wrong hands. I would ask the Minister how you have taken account of this experience in Afghanistan, or how it is reflected in these future operations of ours? The second thing I would like to ask is that when we give training and advice there and on the other hand we know that many people there have encountered things that the human mind really cannot bear or are difficult to bear, we need psychosocial support, and this lack can be reflected in many ways in activities, behaviour and so on. In what way will this matter be taken into account in our operations? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u37	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u38	Mr President! Finland's participation in cooperation in education and training Iraq has produced good results in order to stabilise the security situation in the region. By the end of 2020 Finns have trained more than 5000 Iraqi security forces and Iraqi security forces. All this training has also had an impact on the security of the European Union and Finland. Despite this improvement in the security situation in Iraq, we still have a problem with the return of those who have received a negative asylum decision. I would have asked the Minister what could be done about this other than negotiating the payment of development aid money. It hasn't led to anything. When we know that many thousands of people have remained in Finland or left here in Europe in the past, after having received a negative asylum decision,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u39	Congressman Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u40	Madam President! Thus, Finland has been participating in the OR operation since 2015, and our work has been relevant and the continuation of the participation in the operation is justified. I would also like to return to this issue of the return agreement, which has been raised in several speeches. As Mr Vikman said in our group statement, it is very difficult to justify a country refusing to take back its own citizens and at the same time requiring international assistance. We have just heard from the Minister about an agreement at EU level, but I would like to see further clarification as to whether bilateral negotiations are still taking place on this issue. I would also like to ask: has the re-opening of the Finnish delegation to Baghdad made it any easier in this regard and in any case made it easier to coordinate support measures? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u41	Congressman Kiljunen Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u42	Mr President! This participation by Finland in a security sector training project in Iraq, which increases security and stability in the region, enjoys the undivided support of this hall, and that is an important issue. The Minister pondered these root causes, and it is sad to note that Mesopotamia, the area of the Gemini River, which can well be called the cradle of human civilization — the first city states have once appeared there, and in time it has also been the centre of global civilization for centuries or thousands of years then at the time of the Abbaside Caliphate — is in such a chaotic situation. And when we start thinking about the future from now on, we must ensure that not only is stability being improved through the security sector, but that this political system is being developed, the rule of law and the reconstruction of society and the development efforts are, of course, the key to everything, and that too must be identified here as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u43	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u44	Madam President! This report also hits a very critical point in Iraq's development. As has been said here, elections have just taken place in Iraq. This report also refers on a number of occasions to how to cooperate with this government, and we do not even know exactly what the government's programmes and the need for reform will be there. It has also been pointed out how this presence of international troops is, on the other hand, a very difficult issue in terms of internal policy. So, how are we going to be able to monitor this process of government formation and its possible impact on the operating conditions of these international forces in that region? And above all, what is its impact on the security of Finnish troops?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u45	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u46	Madam President! Indeed, as many colleagues have said here, this Chamber as a whole supports this training operation. Then these return agreements have also been raised in a number of speeches. I would have liked to have asked the Minister again: Now we have seen in this hybrid influence operation that, however, people are now being returned from that Belarus to Iraq, and at least on the basis of the interview points that the international media have received, it does not seem that those people are now returning to Iraq on a huge voluntary basis. Is it now the case that such a hybrid influence state will be better able to return them to the citizens than then to the EU, which is currently doing and its Member States are working in a diverse way with Iraq and trying to help its citizens there? What could be done to prevent this situation from appearing to the public, that is, to the Finns, to be truly extraordinary and strange? I think that this kind of unitary support for this type of operation may very quickly deteriorate,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u47	Congressman Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u48	Madam President! True Finns support the international fight against terrorism, as that representative Niemi said in his group speech. This participation in the ORI can therefore be considered to be well-founded. Let's help where the problem is. I too am interested in this return agreement with Iraq. You told me, Minister, that the EU has a common return agreement. Well, it doesn't seem to be working too well. As I recall, Sweden also has a bilateral return agreement. Do you have any idea how it works between Sweden and Iraq? Then I would like to hear what discussions have taken place at the EU tables on the functioning of this return agreement, because I believe it is not an agreement if it is followed by only one party. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u49	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u50	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for a good introduction. We've been talking about Afghanistan. We saw how quickly Afghanistan collapsed after 20 years of support, and it is important to support Iraq and continue this work through the OIR and NATO training missions. Whenever there is cause for commendation, I am used to doing so, and this time I would like to thank Minister Haavisto and Minister Kaikko for receiving this distressed message about the massive cuts in the rehabilitation money for peacekeepers and crisis veterans, and today, in that supplementary budget, these cuts will be cancelled and EUR 120000 will be allocated to the rehabilitation of crisis management veterans. I hope, Mr Haavisto, that together we will take care of this money in the future. Let's not leave any woman or man sent to these demanding duties.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u51	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u52	Madam President! First of all, Mr Mustajärvi's comment on the launch of the Mali operation on the basis of a report, i.e. without a report, was, in my view, appropriate and I would like to ask the Minister why there was no report on the Mali operation. Then this return agreement with Iraq, which I am sure is going to amaze us all in this Chamber: Minister Haavisto pointed out that Iraq, which is voluntarily returning and committing crimes, is receiving. Well, since I believe that staying illegally in a country — i.e. Finland — is illegal and therefore criminal, how serious the crime must be, or whether it is enough to return to being illegally present in the country, or whether it is the case that:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u53	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u54	Mr President! Iraq is bad to compare with Afghanistan from the point of view that Iraq is perhaps one of the richest countries in the world. It doesn't need the money of the Finns. There is corruption in Iraq, and so the money goes to the wrong accounts, to the wrong mouths, and that is something that must also be raised to the debate, especially with the Iraqis and with our partners. Iraq needs peace and, for peace's sake, education exports, raising the private sector to its feet — by finding jobs for young people, by also reducing the need to join different radical organisations — and this is the direction in which we must also go as Finland. There are about a million armed people in Iraq who have been trained for various tasks. They no longer need so much armament and education but much more peace
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u55	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u56	Madam President! The operation is justified, but it is worth remembering the real reality of the interference of foreign powers in these matters in the long run. Corruption is rampant at every level from grass roots to the top people, and it is kind of naive to believe that our money is not going to go, a pretty big part of it might go to corruption. And what time has been raised by many representatives: it is a wonderful situation that Iraq really does not receive asylum seekers here, who are so to speak illegal and who have not received asylum. However, the whole question arises as to whether there is anyone who can tell us any of the countries whose foreign powers have been able to organise themselves within the framework of democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u57	Congressman Kaunto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u58	Madam President! Participation in international crisis management activities is of enormous importance in Finland’s foreign and security policy. It is extremely important that we want to influence and help people in distress in the world and thus also create links with different actors. At the same time, however, I think that we should always be prepared to ask what Finland benefits from this. The ORI mission is a good example of the persistent work that Finland can do to help strengthen people's living conditions in their countries and thus partly to prevent migratory waves. On the other hand, I also see significant positive effects on our defence capability when Finnish troops gain important experiences in demanding conditions. It is therefore justified to continue to do so. I was a member of the parliamentary crisis management committee. It was unanimously stated that we will take greater care of our crisis-management veterans, and Mr Heinonen has already raised the question here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u59	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u60	Madam President! Minister! We are dealing with the issue of Iraq, and in Iraq this Isis is indeed rampant, and corruption and many other problems are also there. It is a real shame that we do not take back these negative asylum decisions — it has not been received when negative decisions have been taken. It's special not to be taken back. How does Finland think about the future? If all the other countries start to act in the same way that they no longer receive those who have received a negative asylum decision, then we are in a lot of trouble. When dealing with Isis, however, we are dealing with terrorism, so how is it guaranteed that such tentacles will not be washed in Finland? It is extremely serious if terrorism can come to Finland from somewhere. What are we going to do about this? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u61	Congressman Kaleva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u62	Thank you, Mr President. It is indeed a good thing that the whole Chamber here so unanimously supports this participation in this OR operation. We in the Defence Forces — or there in the Defence Forces — have a widespread problem with the fact that this year's mandate is too short. It loses money and resources and makes it particularly difficult to recruit staff, especially reserve staff. At all events, the Reservists are in an unreasonable situation in which they are forced to start pre-operational rotational training without knowing whether they will be able to go into that operation at all. Unfortunately, this situation has already happened too often. The organisation of civil life and work during the crisis management service is already difficult, and there is no need for any additional administrative uncertainty: this requires so much from the individual and also from his/her immediate circle. This situation is not, of course, problematic for the organisers of this rotational training either. Mr President, what can be done to improve the continuity and predictability of this kind? Is it possible to decide at all?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u63	And then Minister Haavisto, four minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the questions. If I go first on Mr Salonen's question relating to Mr Savolank's speech, on the acceptability of OIR's Mr NMI. This was indeed our view that there was criticism of the United States in the country. The United States was in charge of this OR operation, and then in some discussions with their politicians it was seen that NATO would be more neutral to them for their domestic political reasons and therefore more welcome. Now we don't... When Mr Ovaska asked what the elections brought, we do not really know, that is, there is no clear indication which horse will now be riding after the elections, what kind of government or coalition will be and exactly what it will say about this. At the same time, we see that it is not just possible to withdraw and stop this operation, and that is why, of course, the OR will have an extension. This also has little to do with Mr Kaleva's question that even the ORI cannot be designed indefinitely because it is now only known for the following year where the government of the host country is prepared and what kind of agreement will be reached with them. Perhaps it is also a good thing to take a look at Mr Ovaska's question to see that Iraq is not living in a vacuum but in a very difficult area. In fact, Iraq has recently done significant diplomatic work to improve relations between Iran and Saudis and to host meetings, more regional meetings where these relations have been improved. This is, of course, related to their fear that they are being walked over in that area and that there are various actors who are trying to influence their internal policies too much. Of course, this must be fully supported. In fact, in the midst of their difficult situation, they are a bit like peacemakers themselves in this difficult area. Then there were more questions about the return agreement. As I said, the EU has one. We are in the EU. It has not been implemented. At the same time, I know that the police are working with the Iraqi authorities on these crimes, and that cooperation is working, and then there are these voluntary returners who have different incentives to return there. The situation is not satisfactory, and in every debate with the Iraqi authorities we raise this issue. But we have the information — and this also relates to Mr Reijonen’s question — that the bilateral return agreement between any European country is not working at the moment. Without going deeply into these regional issues, there are certainly 50,000 people there who are returning from Syria to Iraq, and Iraq’s difficulty in maintaining stability in such a situation is reflected more widely in this policy. I don't think it's good, and it's a desperate situation. We take it in every debate and we have raised it in every debate with them. Congressman Tanus asked if we could go to the wrong hands. This is, of course, an issue that is being closely monitored, who is being trained, what tasks they are taking part in, that they are part of the official structure of the country. There is no such thing as ghost soldiers like Afghanistan and so on, but of course we rely on the information we always get from the Iraqi authorities, and, for example, with the peshmerga troops in that Kurdistan, of course, there has been cooperation, cooperation has been done. But I think this is very important that the experience of Afghanistan is taken into account in this very process of planning the peace process, and in Afghanistan there were clearly significant mistakes made in these points. More representatives were concerned about the rehabilitation of those involved in crisis management and of crisis veterans — Mr Heinonen, Mrs Kauisto. I think it is extremely important that we, as a Parliament, take care of this and that our message from this Parliament to these veterans is very clear: their work is appreciated, they are also taken care of after these operations. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u65	Thank you. — And then we move on to the list of speakers. — Representative Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u66	Madam President! Finland’s foreign and security policy is based on human rights. Its main objective is to promote gender equality and the full implementation of the human rights of girls and women. We will contribute to this objective by contributing to the training of Iraqi security forces and to the reform of the security sector, since human rights and gender equality can only be achieved in a stable and secure society. However, in crisis management and peace-building, we need to move more towards a holistic approach that takes equal account of human rights, equality, democracy and sustainable development. Young people, women and minorities in particular must play a key role in peacemaking and rebuilding society. This would make conflict prevention and resolution more successful. Sustainable peace and a stable society can only be achieved if all parties in the conflict area are involved in building peace and rebuilding society. Madam President! A rule-based and cooperative international order is the security of a small country such as Finland. This is why Finland must play an active role in strengthening it. The ORI and NMI operations will contribute to social stability in the region and deepen cooperation and partnership with the actors involved in the various operations. Promoting stability is important for maintaining a rule-based and predictable international order. It is also in Finland's interest, as it is easier for a small country to operate in a predictable environment than in an unstable or unpredictable world. The deepening of international partnerships will also increase rule-basedness and predictability. Maintaining a dialogue and cooperation link is an important means of increasing predictability between states. Finland should continue to promote constructive international cooperation and dialogue between different countries. Effective cooperation with the EU, NATO and the UN is in Finland's interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u67	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u68	Thank you, Madam President. I will continue with the situation in Iraq, which is indeed very difficult, as described here, now that the government is being formed. And somehow I wonder that when Finland wants to approach and implement this cooperation in a holistic way, which the previous speaker well referred to, when it is living in a truly unstable region where actors have changed and this threat of terrorist attacks is constantly present, there are also a lot of risks involved in acting in such an environment. It has been interesting to follow this — perhaps not a change of mentality, but nevertheless — when you have been driven from that US leadership towards NATO, which in itself may look quite similar from here, but when you assess who is working here and under what flags, then hopefully this change will also have an impact on the security situation. On the other hand, we can also thank Iraq for its efforts in recent days in relation to the situation in Belarus and, for example, these returns and return flights, which, I hope, have also helped to calm the situation there, but much still needs to be done. The great threat also lies in that economic development, that is, what happens if people there experience more injustice, feel that they cannot catch up with that economy? Now, especially after the interest rate, trades there have been closed, the economy has suffered badly, living in poverty. As has been said here before, the country is prosperous but suffers from corruption, but now more and more people in the country are suffering from corona, and this is how they have sought other ways and means of improving their situation, and we are seeing them in many respects now. So, on the other hand, there are a lot of risks, but it has also been great to see that we have a common will to continue, and I am sure that this operation will change. But there is still the long curve: what is ten, what is 15 years from now? I must say that at least I do not feel that it looks terribly bright, no matter how comprehensive an approach we are trying to take here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u69	Congressman Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u70	Mr President! Since 2015, Finland has been involved in the coalition OR operation with some 80-100 soldiers. Finland's participation has not included any actual military action, but Finns have acted as advisors and trained Peshmerga troops and Iraqi security forces. Isis was declared defeated in 2017 after its loss of land in Iraq. However, the idea lives in isolated pockets and has a dangerous potential to spread again, both locally and globally. The goal of Finland and other Western nations to stabilise societies in the Middle East experienced a huge setback this year when the extremist movement of the Taliban hijacked power in Afghanistan after the withdrawal of the United States. Twenty years of work and a huge amount of financial and material investment went to waste. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, we have learned that values are not export goods. In Afghanistan, a completely foreign idea came about that the police and military forces of the regime, supported by the Western Alliance, surrendered almost without opposition to the religious extremists. The ORI operation will be gradually reduced in the context of the expansion of the NMI mission, with a change of focus from military force to advice and training at the strategic level of the region. The withdrawal of Americans can weaken the security situation again, which can also be reflected in the immediate security of Finns in Iraq. According to the Government report, Finland intends to continue to participate in the ORI operation with the strength of some 75 soldiers until the end of 2022. Participation in the mission will improve partnerships with international organisations and Member States, as well as provide opportunities and valuable experience for domestic activities. True Finns support the international fight against terrorism, but the situation needs to be closely monitored so that events such as those in Afghanistan do not happen again. Mr President! Finland supports: Measures to stabilise the ISIS regions through the UNDP stabilisation fund. Funding will be channelled towards upgrading infrastructure, strengthening local government and revitalising economic activity. In addition, Finland also finances humanitarian mine activities and the work of the UN Population Fund to improve the position of young people with disabilities. Since 2014, Finland’s ODA eligible development and humanitarian aid to Iraq has amounted to around EUR 38 million. According to the report, financial support creates opportunities for the return of 1.2 million displaced persons. The long-standing problems in Iraq are reflected in the number of asylum seekers who are still seeking asylum in Europe. According to statistics, Iraqis are the largest group of asylum seekers in Finland. In 2020, more than half of the decisions taken by the Finnish Immigration Service were either negative or the processing of the application lapsed. The debate on return issues has been going on for a long time, but there does not seem to be a solution in sight. Iraq has repeatedly refused to receive its own citizens, and the situation is unreasonable for Finland. It is the fundamental position of the Finns that an effective return agreement must be put into effect. For example, if this calls for international aid to be conditioned to counterbalance the Return Agreement, the Finns of Peru are ready to support it. It is also inconceivable that Iraqis who have received a negative return have remained in Finland as illegal residents in the country, and this is something that the government should tackle with a big hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u71	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u72	Mr President! We are therefore authorising Finland to continue this training mission in the security sector in Iraq. It may also be useful for Parliament for a moment to stop and think about what kind of country we are launching a training project, what the background of civilization is, what this society is, what it is about. Today we are dealing with an Arab country which has once been the centre of the Arab Empire, Baghdad as its centre at the time, but history in that country goes far beyond what we may have realised in this debate. As long ago as 100,000 years ago — 100,000 years ago — there have been traces of people living in that area of the Gemini River, that is, the fertile valley between the Euphrates and the Tigris rivers, where civilizations began to develop for the first time in the form of urban communities. By the way, Mr President, there was an ice age in Europe, it is worth remembering, and these first urban communities, Sumerian cultures, were born there 8,000 years ago. Finland was still freed from the ice age, so we lived in a very different cultural historical context. After all, Sumerian culture was where astronomy created the first calendar systems with their cuneiform writings, that is, the cradle of human civilization. Back there were the centers of the Babylonian Empire and the Assyrian Empire and then the culture of the Hellenics. Alexander the Great conquered its territory, and then it was under Roman Empire before the Abbasid Caliphate was founded, Baghdad as its center, in 750 C.E. after Christ, the beginning of our Common Era, and then the first global empire was created. This Abbaside Caliphate extended from the Atlantic to South-East Asia from the present Morocco. It was the first global empire system born in world history. It fell in time by Genghis Khan in the 13th century, then by Ottomans in the 16th century, and then in World War I the Europeans came and divided, mutilated, mutilated, the region and had no respect for the original social structures that existed there. This has to be said because the entire map of the Middle East, drawn up in the Lausanne Treaty of course, was defined as the result of the balancing of the European colonial powers. It is the tragedy that countries are still suffering, including this Kurdish problem: they were then left behind in this dismemberment process without their own country, the only great nation without a state, which has been affected by the conflicts that have taken place throughout the whole of 100 years in that region, and the Kurds are still deprived of their own recognised sovereign state — except, of course, in Northern Iraq, where the Kurdistan flag is currently flying as a sign of an autonomous region. This is the history that it is good to go through, because then we will recognise its role as Europeans at an earlier stage. 1932 Iraq gained independence, and then through various Panarabian arrangements there were between kingdoms, between military governments. Saddam Hussein hijacked power 79, attacked Iran immediately, in the early 80s and 90s, in Kuwait, and then there was this sad campaign in 2003 by the Bush Administration, which then created this real chaotic situation, the consequences of which we are now going to go through. Where Iraq now, in a sense, is in need of huge help is the reconstruction of that society. However, we are still working on this colonial demarcation, which is difficult. It's very difficult because the country is ethnically divided... — ‘Etnistically’ is the term ‘wrong’. The country is clearly divided culturally into three large communities, and many are currently required to assess whether it is even viable in a longer run. In the northern part of Kurdista — 20 % of the population are Kurdish — there is already full autonomy. There is a long discussion about whether Sunni and Shia can live together. The Shiites account for 50% of the country's population, 30% of the Sunnis. The powers of the Bath Party have been there for the Sunni, and the Sunni have been part of the regime. The Shiites have continued to be in the opposition, and now, after this transformation, after 2003, in these civil war situations, Shiites have taken over with the support of Iran from that neighbour. There is a regional power policy, there is a European power policy, there is a diversity of backgrounds, and that country itself is genuinely seeking its identity. Here, Mr President, Minister, we are now dealing with this labyrinth, to which we are giving this little education of our own.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u74	Congressman Kaleva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u75	Thank you, Mr President. And thank Mrs Kiljune for this enlightening speech. This de-baathification — when the Americans replaced the Ba'ath Party but also all the members of the Ba'ath Party from the Iraqi regime — was given, as it is said, to Iran on a gold plate. This same de-baathification — if I may continue with this excellent speech by Mr Kiljunen — also contributed to the fact that Isis, as an organisation, rose to power so quickly. The Shiites were in power, and they then began to oppress the Sunnes. In the past, the Sunni were oppressing the Shiites. Of course it is clear that when there is such an organization, a Sunni organization, who said that we kill all Shias, so it has a certain social acceptance in Iraqi society, unfortunately. But let us go back, if the President-in-Office agrees, to the operation of the OR, which is obviously to be discussed today. It is good that Finland participates in this operation. The atrocities of this jihadist organisation, Isis, are totally reprehensible. That is the personal testimony given by Nadia Murad, who is here today in Parliament as our guest. The Isis caliphate has fallen, but the Caliphate ideology has not gone anywhere. That propaganda is still online. It's high-quality. It particularly appeals to Muslim youths who grew up in Western countries. Radicalisation was earlier such as the top-down process, i.e. there was someone radicalising, who then radicalizes potential recruits. But it has turned into this kind of thing, talking about bottom-up-radicalisation, that is, the person himself is looking for that radicalizing material online, looking at it in his own privacy and then radicalizing himself. In Turku, among other things, this terrorist who did the knife attack was radicalised. This is very difficult for the authorities to address. In this respect, it is particularly important that Finland shoulders responsibility both at home and then there in Iraq, in the target area. And this is what Finland has done with merit. Finland has had good experiences with the Iraqi operation: at national level, the development of the skills of an individual fighter, the operating environment of the mission and also the threat assessment have helped in developing medical training, for example. This has already been reflected in our national education and training in a positive way. The operation has also been useful at political level. As Mr Vikman has said very well here earlier, the flag display itself does not have an end in itself. If the display of the flag is understood to be driven back and forth in an operation area in a remote area and the flag is fluttering in that vehicle’s bar, then it is of no use. But the ticket display has a different advantage. It is important that the Finnish flag is displayed in New York and Geneva on UN map tables and in Brussels on NATO and EU maps. In this respect, participation in the mission has been highly justified and it is good that it continues. Finnish soldiers are still extremely valued partners in this operation as well. However, the transfer of national focus to large container operations should not mean that very cost-effective and politically very useful small operations, such as UN military observation missions, would be abandoned altogether. Such small observer and similar operations are the best ticket evidence, the correct ticket evidence at the closing tables of international organisations. It is also good in the OR mission that Finns have genuinely been able to train and mentor local troops and senior commanders. Such a bottom-up strategy is effective and Finland has succeeded in doing so. Mr President! I can't wait to come back to the question I put to Minister Haavisto in the debate. Is there anything to be done to improve continuity and predictability in such a way that recruiting and training these staff for this operation would be easier and smoother? Would it be possible, for example, to decide on the mandate for the coming calendar year a little earlier rather than at this turn of November-December? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u76	Congressman Kaunto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u77	Madam President! We are therefore discussing the continuation of Finland's involvement in security sector education cooperation in Iraq. One year ago, I had the honour of giving a group speech on this same subject, and I raised, among other things, how stability and freedom go hand in hand, and the more stable society, the more citizens can enjoy extensive freedoms. A year ago, I also spoke about how we have moved towards more unstable times with the increasing competition for power, poverty and conflict and radicalisation. As we now see, this prophecy has been sadly accurate. Madam President! Despite the results achieved in Iraq, the overall situation in the country is unstable. Isis supporters, sleeping cells, are still in Iraq, and it is estimated that they have even had a new wind in recent weeks. In addition, the security of the country is undermined by a number of armed people's mobilisation units, which are both paramilitary and part of the state administration. A year ago, I also raised the issue of how, through the development of the rule of law, governance and education and employment opportunities in Iraq through the OIR mission, we create the conditions for ISIS's ideology not to be rooted, and this is very important for Finland. This, too, is still entirely true. Through the OIR operation, Finland supports the fight against international terrorism, affects the underlying causes of migration and at the same time promotes cooperation with the actors and states that are important to us, such as the United States. Our own national defence will also develop through participation, as our troops will gain valuable experience in demanding advisory tasks. Mr President! Crisis management is a key tool in Finland's foreign and security policy, and we must continue to be involved in such operations. In Iraq, crisis management cooperation should be based on what is happening in the country, and Finland, together with the EU, must consider what kind of support is being given to different actors. We should also consider whether the conditionalisation of international assistance for Iraq's operations should be raised in order to put pressure on the Iraqi leadership itself to take greater responsibility for the situation in its country. This is strongly linked to the return policy of Iraqi citizens, which needs to be resolved. As I said last year, we are helping Iraq according to our abilities, but Iraq must also shoulder its responsibilities. Earlier in this debate, I raised the point that I was a member of the parliamentary crisis management committee and there we unanimously argued that crisis management veterans should be taken better care of. I am very pleased that Mr Haavisto raised his own position here, and I also think that the whole of Parliament's position is that we are prepared to build a sustainable future so that our veterans in crisis management can be confident that when they return to Finland, they will really be taken good care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u78	Thank you. — Mr Laakso is absent. — — — — Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u79	Mr President! We have a report from the Government to the Parliament on the continuation of Finland's participation in the ORI operation in accordance with the Military Crisis Management Act. After all, Finland has been there since 2015, and it is planned to continue the coming year with some 75 soldiers. I'm glad we're in on this. Our soldiers will learn valuable lessons there, and they will also be able to take lessons there. We in the Finns Party often stress that our primary goal in immigration policy is to stop all humanitarian entry and shift the focus to help on the ground. Military crisis management is one example of these concrete actions that can be taken in the countries of origin and that can bring aid or build peace there. The advantage of military crisis management is that it is at best beneficial to both the host country and the issuing or exercising state. The host country receives security and stability, peace, and crisis management, on the other hand, can mentor and test in practice the policies and doctrines that it would have to apply in the event of a conflict on its own. In a country such as Finland enjoying a long time of peace, there is no real situation, or fortunately there is no need to practice. These are the real situations that our peacekeeping and crisis management forces have been able to practice under the circumstances of crisis management operations, and in these, military threats are no longer just a practice. In operations, Finnish soldiers gain valuable experience of what works and what may not. For Finland, crisis management is useful. Terrorist activities must be prevented militarily already in Iraq. This will leave no time or resources for terrorists to do this damage elsewhere in the world, in Europe or, ultimately, in Finland. As the countries of origin remain more stable, the immigration pressure on the people affected by terrorism in Europe will also be reduced, and hopefully this will also allow those who have already left the country to return to Iraq. Much has been said in this debate about the return agreement with Iraq. Minister Haavisto has already left, I guess I am no longer asking the question, but I can think about it myself: when Mr Haavisto said that Iraq has concluded an agreement with the European Union that it does not comply with, but has accepted that Iraq, which is voluntarily returning and committing crimes, will, in my opinion, be illegally resident in Finland, and that is why I think it is criminal, and that is why one might wonder whether these conditions would not already be met and therefore be able to return them to the country. Mr President! The Finns support this continuation of the ORI operation next year. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u80	Thank you. — Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo, please. — I note that this debate will be over in 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u81	President! I will try to make the last speech on my part in this context, but, inspired by Mr Kaleva, I will move on, because he was one of the few who genuinely started to reflect on the background of this Isis caliphate — where it arises, as it were, the counterforce on which this security operation, where we are now in the process of strengthening the stability and operational capacity of the security forces, is based. This ISIS caliphat, the international state of Iraq and Syria, a confederation which was founded in 2013, was, in fact, surprisingly heavily placed under control both in Syria and, above all, in Iraq — eight million inhabitants at one stage, Mosul as the second largest city in Iraq — and it was, of course, a genuine threat in many ways. What have its roots been? Where did it come from? Interestingly, this flag of Caliphate-Isis is a black flag, which comes from the same thing as the Abbasid Caliphate to which I referred, which was the global superpower back in the day, a thousand years ago, which ruled the entire world from the Atlantic to south-east Asia and was the core region, Baghdad, as its centre, so that this ISIS caliphate, as it were, sought to create the rightful empire of Islam and Muslims, a global system. In fact, that was their big goal, and the first was the Syria-Irak angle. Why? What was the motivational factor? Well, of course, it was the 2003 invasion that was carried out under the leadership of the United States to overthrow Saddam Hussein, which, as Mr Kaleva said here, was the result of the break-up of the Sunni regime, virtually completely dismantled the Sunni regime in Iraq, and the Shiites, the majority of the country in fact, took over. And then — this was a very corrupt system of government that was born there — local private armies ruled the country, there was a civil war situation in many corners, and there was also this Middle East power race with Iran and Saudi Arabia facing one another. But this ambitious starting point was precisely the Sunni organization. The lower suites ruled in Syria, and there were the majority of Sunni. In Iraq, the Shiites now ruled, and the Sunni rebelled. Sunni's orthodoxy was in this background, and this is the sect of the Salafisti, the Wahhabite, which is the dominant religion of Saudi Arabia, which has been the background of its Isis, that is, Saudi Arabia is based on the same traditions in Islamic syllabic systems as Isis. By the way, the penalties are also the same. In Saudi Arabia there is still a legal punishment for crucifixion, so we are, in a way, acting on the same basis of the sharia law, which is a power approach here. There was this Sunni bitterness as one. Another major element behind Isis was, of course, the protest against foreign powers. They protested against the foreign powers — that is, those who were considered to be occupyors. And thirdly — a genuine terrorist organization — terror, fear. The most radical ways of Shariala were used with its neck cut and other shocking human rights violations, and that was the core of its power system. And, of course, the result was that not only the orthodox stood behind Isis. All the infidels also stood behind this in the global system, and the result has now been this change that has taken place there, and in that process we Finns are also involved. I'm not criticizing it at all. I recognise global solidarity in relation to international human rights. By the way, Iraq is a UN Member State, a signatory to the UN Conventions on Human Rights, which is, of course, an understandable approach that the global community defends fundamental human rights, that we are acting in this process. But if we are to understand the process in which we have now driven ourselves as a small Finland, then we must look at this whole, history, understand the forces that affect that country, because otherwise our influence will remain in the air alone, just to strengthen the security sector, and then we will not understand the whole process of development in that society. And this reconstruction of Iraq requires much more than just strengthening this security sector. Then we will come to the question of identity, to which I referred, but Iraq is so triangular — the Kurds, the Shiites and the Sunnis — that it is wonderful if they try to build the single state that was created by the map drawings of the European colonists, but there may be difficulties. And then perhaps the system comes from some wider cooperation that regionally recognizes the need for this cooperation, sees these state concepts from this angle then in a longer run
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u82	Thank you! — Representative Ovaska, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u83	Mr President! I would just like to mention here when I listened to Mr Mäenpää's speech that this military crisis is only one part of this foreign and security policy that we are doing. As such, it has been said here and you have said today, this is important. But as we unanimously stated in the parliamentary crisis management committee, we want a comprehensive approach, which therefore includes military and civilian crisis management, including development cooperation, a wide range of issues, such as the mine action already mentioned here, and so on and so on. So all of this is part of our foreign and security policy. You can't just take one part, some corner of it, you have to take all of this. If we are to be able to do it effectively, then there must also be plans that go far. I would like to thank the people who were on our committee. I think we have achieved very good results and it seems that the ministries have also started to act on their recommendations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u84	Thank you. — Mr Kaleva will be able to do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u85	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief because time is money. Mr Kiljunen said that Isis would have been a Wahhabi organisation — this is not the case. It's a Salafi, but it's a jihadist, not so much a wahhabi. In other words, Isis as an organisation — if you look at the history of Isis’ organization — goes a long way, even up to the 1980s, it can be brought together. 2004-2006 Isisi's predecessor was part of al-Qaeda, it was al-Qaeda in Iraq, and in this respect it is against the Saudi King House, which is, in a way, anti-wahhabit. But this is probably more semantic... Or it matters, but I don't think it's because of this OR. However, thank you to Mr Kiljune for the excellent speeches that have been heard in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u86	For the sake of clarity, at this stage, two hours have come to an end. That's why we're out of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u87	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of one hour shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — The debate is opened by Minister Saarikko. Introduction, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u88	Thank you, Mr President. The Government's proposal to the Parliament to supplement the draft budget for 22 years mainly includes revised expenditure items for next year, but also some new decisions. A total increase of EUR 152 million is proposed. The total increase in revenue in the proposal is approximately EUR 39 million, with a reduction in the tax revenue forecast of approximately EUR 27 million and an increase of almost EUR 67 million in miscellaneous revenue. As a whole, the supplementary draft budget for next year will increase the need for net government borrowing by EUR 113 million, so the deficit for 22 is now estimated at around EUR 7 billion, but several billion less than the current year's deficit, which is estimated at around EUR 12.2 billion today. At the end of 22, the amount of central government debt is estimated to be around EUR 144 billion, which is, therefore, 55% of GDP. Mr President! One of the most significant proposals for appropriations in the supplementary draft budget is the additional compensation for beneficiaries for the fall in the revenue from gambling activities. In addition to the EUR 330 million proposed earlier in the draft budget, compensation will be increased by a total of EUR 73.8 million. Of this, the budget contribution to the spending limits amounts to EUR 46.3 million and the rest is proposed to be financed by further reducing the lottery tax and further increasing the use of the so-called undivided profits. After this point, that lottery tax is part of compensation in this Chamber. So, Mr President, on this question of Mr Veikkaus. So the so-called full compensation for 21 and 22 has now been decided. For the year 23, it was decided last spring that the mid-term debate would compensate for the decrease in income for beneficiaries by EUR 305 million, but for the year 24 and beyond, the issue is still open. Other additional appropriations or increases in appropriations are proposed, inter alia: Kuopio Rescue College will receive EUR 350,000 to increase its rescue training and EUR 1.6 million to organise a Swedish-speaking rescue course. The Swedish course is conducted as a regional course in cooperation with another regional rescue service. A total of around EUR 3.9 million will be presented to the Digital and Population Information Office, of which 1.9 million will be for the accelerated registration of foreigners and one million will be for the digitisation of the service pros of the Agency. There will be an increase of EUR 3.4 million in student financial aid to increase the student's income limits on a fixed-term basis. This, as well as accelerated authorisation processes for foreign workers, is part of the government's efforts to increase the availability of labour on a fast schedule. In addition, the whole chain of justice has talked a lot about Parliament, and in this context, an increase of EUR 10 million in compensation for private legal aid is proposed in relation to the costs incurred by the courts as a result of the problem of corona congestion. And a total of EUR 4.3 million will be allocated to raising the refugee quota to 1500 people due to the situation in Afghanistan. Mr President! What, then, is this deficit of EUR 7 billion next year? It tells us a lot of things about our economy. Firstly, the fact that the deficit is shrinking significantly from this year. In many ways we managed to manage the corona and the economy, to combine them, and the corona pit was smaller than anticipated and is gradually being filled. Secondly, it reflects the fact that the deficit does not turn into a balance of central government finances simply by cutting expenditure. At least I have not seen the 7 billion cut list yet, and I doubt that it will be brought to this Chamber in the alternative budgets either.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u97	Let's take a short debat here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u98	Mr President! The Minister of Finance's instruments were absolutely correct. There must be patience to become prosperous and also patience to take on debt when it comes to important purposes, but of course we must also try to get rid of that debt as soon as possible. Now it is worth taking advantage of long-term credit to stabilise this search for balance, while the interest rate market is still as favourable as it is at present, and it must be wisely invested in that future work, the future, including the construction of infrastructure. And this is certainly the direction in which budgetary changes will have to be made in the next few years. The supplementary budget proposal places the budget on very important points for next year, and then next spring we will have to make the long-term decisions – how do we go from next year? But it is precisely to this employment rate, to boost growth, to its sustainability that Finland manages and rises, and we must not rush into recovery measures either.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u99	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u100	Mr President! I quote a little from Henry Ford’s book of 23: “Language can be seen as an unwillingness to defend itself against difficulties,as well as a can-dorereretardary stupidity. Some businessmen are often too comfortable to put on a job and go to the factory to see how it is there, or too proud to admit that anything they themselves have set in motion could fail.” I am still wondering why our country is in debt at this rate. Don't you really think we should put on those work clothes and start living with our mouths full of bags?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u103	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u104	Mr President! Warm thanks for this cancellation of the operation for crisis veterans — EUR 140000 for the rehabilitation of crisis veterans is indeed needed. Thank you for that, Minister Saarikko, and Minister Kaikkonen. But, Minister Saarikko, the economic policy of the Marin government is that of the reckless economic policy that you have spoken about.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u107	Thank you. — Representative Ovaska, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u108	Mr President! I believe, however, that the government has succeeded in this treatment of the interest rate, as has been said many times here. It is very difficult to understand that the Finns of Peru are being accused of being lazy when it comes to what kind of corona situation we have been in. If you think of 2011 and 2015, when the sovereign debt only grew, it was finally translated during the time of Sipilä's government. And now that the interest rate has finally been eased, I hope we will also have to make clear plans on how we will ensure that the government debt in relation to GDP will fall in the future, and that will require the very far-reaching decisions, on the one hand, employment measures, but also investment in the future, i.e. how we invest in research, development and innovation. I would particularly like to thank the government for, for example, this increase in the income limits for student aid — a small act in this large budget, but very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u109	Congressman Saramo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u110	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for the excellent observation that cutting the economy cannot balance — on the contrary, the more the previous governments cut, the further the goal went. At the time, Finland took on debt to unemployment, now that it has been taken into account for employment. Finland was never able to join the growth of the rest of Europe, but I congratulate the Minister for Finance on the fact that we have now risen from the bottom to the top guard in Europe when we look at the latest figures from the Commission. The IMF estimates were also very positive. In fact, when you look at the market debt, Finland’s market debt is even at a lower level than it was during the previous government, even though this has been an interest rate. This is, of course, due to the massive operation of the European Central Bank, the fact that Finland is in debt, just as other countries are actually in debt to our respective central banks, and in this respect:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u111	Congressman Kiljunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u112	Mr President! Mr Heinonen made a strong point here that the frameworks should not slip. I assume, Mr President, that he also meant this single largest investment in Finland's history, namely the HX project, EUR 10 billion. Congressman Heinonen, was that a frame slipping or not? I'll check it out with you. However, it was exceptionally large in economic policy terms, including life-cycle costs, which will now be at our disposal for the next 30 years.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u115	Mr. Koponen Ari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u116	Mr President! According to statistics, the biggest economic growth will gradually decline next year. During economic growth, the government has only taken on more debt. What happens when the next landing season comes? When will we balance our economy if not during the boom season?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u117	Thank you. — Mr Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u118	Thank you, Mr President! More and more often it is said that if the centre were on the board — the representative of Saarikko would become an excellent finance minister. I agree with this suggestion, and Minister Saarikko's speeches have been, for example, in a press release last Friday on the IMF report and now this weekend at the meeting of the Central Party Council. You said that you are not in a government where you are ‘breathing ’ with the rejection of the economy. Finely usedin this context,the word ‘basketing’. I have always admired your ability to use Finnish’s beautiful language in creative and colorful ways. But when we look at what this government is doing, it is quite strange that you are talking about the need to stick to the frameworks or the need to put things, including spending, in order of priority when this is not the policy of this government. Is this what it's gonna be like?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u119	Congressman Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u120	Mr President! However, I am sure that the very core message that we can calmly note from this recent presentation is that we are experiencing a rapid reduction in the deficit. Now, for example, compared to this year next year, there will be a deficit of 4 billion less, which indicates that the direction is right, and also about the timeliness and size of the economy in relation to the fact that we were forced to catch the interest rate here and now. As a result, we certainly had to take debt and increase spending, but we have agreed that we are gradually working towards a balance, and we have also been warned that recovery measures should not be stopped too quickly, because then we would go from ditch to ally. And still, by the way,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u121	Thank you. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u122	Mr President! Minister, in Kuopio we have been very concerned about the fate of the Rescue College. I feel like there hasn't been enough funding there. There have been a number of comments on this, and now it seems that funding is coming from the rescue side. Here it is reported that the rescue action is proposed to increase rescue training by EUR 350,000 and EUR 1.6 million to organise a Swedish-speaking rescue course. With this in mind, I would like to ask the Minister a question. Of course this funding for this side is very important. However, this is not about Kuopio Rescue College, but about Rescue Services, so I would ask that when Minister Saarikko has publicly promised to support Kuopio Rescue College, when will this Swedish course start in Kuopio? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u123	Thank you. And Mr. Wallinheimo, please!
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u124	Mr President! According to the spending limits manual, the government is committed not to using tax reductions or tax subsidies to circumvent the spending limits, and this is an extremely good principle. Unfortunately, you are also violating this principle by, among other things, reducing the lottery tax. Of course, as the speakers say, you have broken the frameworks for the next few years, so nothing new under the sun in that sense. But all of this tells us that you lack the prioritization capacity of the government, which the Minister has also stressed here. Anyone who screams loud enough, I'm sure they'll get their money. This is therefore not a credible policy, and the country should take better care of matters. I would like to ask the Minister: when will you start to comply with your own government's programme?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u125	Minister Saarikko, 3 minutes to answer, and then we move on to the list of speakers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u126	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you to the representatives of the Committee on Finance for their cooperation in the budgetary processes so far, and also thank you for the good cooperation with Parliament, which is the end of which the IMF's country assessment, which has already been referred to here, gave us a good recognition of the management of the economic policy of the corona era. Good corona management has been good for the household: the pit did not get too deep and could be raised from it. My speech on the sustainability of the economy will, of course, be linked to the decisions to be made next year on the framework and hence the rational solutions to the budget for 23, but it is also linked to the longer-term concern about the sustainability of Finland's debt, because that is something that we really cannot escape here, because for the last ten years in Finland's economy, expenditure and income have been unbalanced, more or less. However, a positive cycle was achieved towards the end of the 15-19 parliamentary term and its cycle was, of course, disrupted by the management of the interest rate and its strong indebtedness and hence its impact on industrial policy. So, Mr Heinonen and others have made a very good point about the economic policy of the time in question, but my concern relates to the time from now on. The framework is under a great deal of pressure. Even the solution that was reached last spring. There was also reference to HX fighters by Mr Kiljunen. It has been an important investment that Finnish parties jointly committed to and was included in the framework solution. It was the decision of the government in the early years to make decisions on the fighters that are still being implemented this year, and that was part of the framework. And when much is said about this part of investment — you too, Mr Kiljunen, I think you referred to investment — I am a little skeptical as to whether we can find sufficient common views on what is actually an investment. Destroyers are investment, they are concrete machines, but training is an investment — and everything in between. That is why, in my many speeches, I have wanted to emphasise the order of values, because we parties and individual representatives are different from each other, and I do not mean that anyone's efforts are worse, but they are those political values. [Representatives Kimmo Kiljunen and Timo Heinonen request a reply]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u129	Thank you. — And Mr Soinikoski, please. — Let us now go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u130	Mr President! Since August we have been reading shocking news about the human rights violations of women, girls and minorities in Afghanistan. Last Sunday we were able to read the news about the Taliban’s ban on television shows with female actors. Previously, the Taliban has restricted the study of women and girls, persecuted women journalists and prevented women from doing their job and living a decent life. The situation in Afghanistan is unsustainable. That is why it is great that the government has decided to increase the refugee quota from 1050 to 1500 because of the situation in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u133	Thank you. — Mr Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u134	Mr President! In fact, in this speech, I would like to draw my attention mainly to one thing, which is important. It is important now, it will be important next year and, above all, it will be important from then on, and it will be this compensation for the fall in gambling profits. What is at stake is that, if this issue is not dealt with in a sustainable way, a major, significant problem will arise in order to reduce funding for culture, physical activity, youth work and a number of non-governmental organisations in the social sector. Everyone understands that the sum of national and state revenue and expenditure is very small in it as a whole, but how big it is for those who have received these sums and how important their work and activities are for employment, economic well-being, not to mention the mental and physical well-being of people and all this. So my cry for help and my message is still that if we do not manage this funding to a sustainable level after next year too, then we will be in big trouble in the years to come, because those side effects and cuts will be repeated. That is why I very much hope now that the work will produce results in finding a sustainable financing model for these future missing incomes that we have received from gambling. I am very serious about this message. I am serious about this message because we have already seen how unsustainable the situation was when next year these cuts were to be made. It was extremely important, even required that this operation be fixed as such. I do not think it was right in the first place that such compensation was not 100% fixed for next year, but at the same time we know that if we do not deal with this solution next year, the same problem will continue to exist. I, President-in-Office of the Council, have often used a metaphor, for example, for culture, for the small amount of money that we are sacrificing to culture when, for some reason, it is imagined that they will save this entire world economy when they are cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u144	Congressman Simula, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u145	Mr President! In this government proposal, next year's budget will indeed be supplemented by expenditure and debt. The refugee quota will be increased by 450 people to a record 1500, radicalisation will be prevented by an exit project of EUR 300000, and loss of income will be offset by debt money. As has already been said several times, the revenue side has dropped its base, for, on the one hand, no revolutionary employment measures or, on the other hand, a prioritization of expenditure has not been able to do so. At the moment, the employment rate is barely at the pre-emergency level, and there are still far too many Finns with long-term unemployment. And even here, when economic growth has been lashed out, it will soon break down, and economists are already predicting that next year's economic growth forecast will be lower than expected. However, on the eve of the decline in economic growth and the record high debt mountain, the refugee quota is being increased and virtued, even though less money would help considerably more people in Afghanistan's neighbourhood. Instead, people are brought to Finland from a completely different cultural circle who do not integrate or work in the long term, not to mention the fact that Finland has supported the Western Alliance in Afghanistan by nearly EUR 1 billion over the last 20 years. Finland’s responsibility for the whole world seems never to end. No amount of money is enough, no action is enough. When immigration policy goes wrong, we need projects to prevent radicalisation, which are far too little too late. The reason for radicalisation is a loose and naive immigration policy, but these projects deal with the consequence of the disruption of social peace and the emergence of shadow societies. These are the things that we Finns have constantly warned about for over a decade. Our message still goes to deaf ears. It is therefore proposed to increase the refugee quota to 1500 persons. Why not 1501 people? Don't you think that one more person could also be in need of help? Millions and millions of people in the world live in miserable conditions, but the most inefficient way is to help fewer and fewer people with big money. When making these decisions, we should really look at the whole picture in terms of the carrying capacity of our society, the cost of the whole life cycle and family reunification. But the taxpayer's money is, of course, easy to justify. The question is: what is the centre doing, the government's chest guard party, which, by the way, the chairman of the parliamentary group, Mr Pylväs, declared in the autumn that no auction for an increase in the refugee quota will bring relief to the world's refugee problem? Well, the answer doesn't surprise me. Despite all the bulging, the center again bends in front of the green left. Mr President! The revenue of the bet has been reduced due to the interest rate. Instead of critically looking at the income recipients and living up to their mouths, the government is rushing to help in order to continue the distribution of money as before. This government was almost the first to raise party support, but political youth organisations are still supported by betting money and now directly by taxpayers' money separately. The parties should finance the activities of their own youth and student organisations through party support, which would already generate savings of more than EUR 2.5 million per year. But this too is just wishful thinking. Instead, government parties are seeking a new level of party support through welfare areas. I mean, more taxpayers' money for party organizations. You do know how to do business and pay the taxpayers' money, Mr President. It is easy to forget that you are responsible for Finland’s economy, the well-being of Finns and the future of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u146	Thank you. — Mr Koponen, Mr Ari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u147	Mr President! Again, this proposal to supplement next year's budget has not tightened the national wallet. In practice, expenditure will be increased by EUR 239 million if it includes the total abolition of the planned electronicisation aid to compensate for carbon emissions. The above speech heard about the increase in the refugee quota and its price, but we must also remember the price of it. We now read about brutal violence and ganging each week, which has already nested in Finland. This is one angle in this matter. Climate leadership means billions of increases in taxes and prices. The most vulnerable elderly, single parents, unemployed, sick — this list is endless — are also paying for this. Is this the fair green transition? We are far too hard on the front line with it, and the Finns are really paying for this. It would be great to hear how this will be compensated for the less fortunate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u148	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u149	Mr President! Dear Minister and fellow Members of Parliament! A few comments on this supplementary proposal. I welcome the fact that the proceeds of gambling are being compensated, as it was actually the only cuts that this government was making. Now, under pressure, they will be removed, and culture, sport and sport will receive the money that is actually needed there. Rescue training is also an issue raised by the opposition. The Finns of Peru made a good sound about it, as well as the Coalition Party,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u152	Thank you. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u153	Mr President! There is an amending budget. A supplementary budget has been drawn up by the Honourable Government. There are some very important items here, but unfortunately this shows that Finnish is not always the top priority in this current government. In fact, there is an increase in the refugee quota on the list. In the past, the quota was 1,050 persons a year, and now the quota is 1500 persons. There are millions of euro in the proposal: EUR0.7million in the allocation of EUR 2.5million to State compensation for integration training. Finland gave a huge amount of money to the EU recovery package and lost a lot of money in it. That's when they asked about impact assessments and others. These important impact assessments were apparently not fully carried out, as EUR 3.2 million are now being presented for the monitoring and control of the EU Recovery and Recovery Instrument and for the development of the information system. Why on earth has this surveillance and monitoring been in such bad shape? It's only now that we should have cleared things up in the first place. The money's gone. Which means there's too much money going abroad again. We have an emergency in our country and a need for money. When will the government put Finns and Finland first? True Finns always want to put the citizens of their own country first.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u154	Congressman Essayah, please!
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u155	Mr President! The supplementary budget is always, as the word says, complementary and, in that sense, it is not possible to think of such major economic policies on the basis of this paper alone. But when we know that the government's actual budget proposal, which is now on the agenda of the committees, is very much in deficit despite the upturn, and is still increasing Finland's debt, then there is still cause for concern about this general approach. In general, these additions are precisely those where there are fewer conflicts. This is where colleagues have pointed out, for example, these changes in securing the proceeds of Veikkaus Oy's gambling for the beneficiaries, and they are certainly all in favour of them in this Chamber. Of course, there are points in this proposal which raise questions as to whether the financing of the entire sector or the administrative sector is fully in order. In fact, I would like to raise one of these areas of the Ministry of the Interior, which has already been addressed in the previous speeches: EUR 350,000 is being proposed here to increase rescue training and EUR 1.6 million for organising a Swedish-speaking rescue course. This raises the question that it is known that this EUR 350,000, a very modest amount of money, will be able to start a course of 24 students in Kuopio next autumn and this appropriation will be one-off and only cover the beginning of teaching. In an interview with Savon Sanomat, Minna Hirvonen, Director of Education at the Rescue College, was very sorry that this funding was so small. The time has now come for a recent decision by the Labour Court, which has stated that this reserve system is not sufficient to ensure that we have an on-call duty at fire stations properly. So now we really need new rescuers, who should then be hired at fire stations in the regions. It has been calculated that there are currently at least that thousand people's deficits, and now this huge deficit is being filled with this start-up money, a course of 24 students. Then this larger amount, 1.6 million, is intended for 30 Swedish-speaking students. There's no more detailed information on where this place is. It has been said that it will be held somewhere in south-west Finland, perhaps in Åland, somewhere there. But it seems strange that when we still have a place of high quality at national and European level in Kuopio, this is not used. Of course, in this context it cannot be forgotten that the Minister of the Interior, a former Minister of the Interior, who was now on parental leave, in the most recent decisions, strengthened the status of the Helsinki Rescue School, which unfortunately continued the continuum that was already visible in the last period, namely that Kuopio was to be dried up. I do not think that this is right for the rescue industry, and it seemed to me to be a very strange, regional policy bet from a politician in Helsinki who sits in the City of Helsinki at the same time. In that sense, I am sorry about this. And, indeed, to the Ministry of Finance right now, as a question as to how this rescue funding and, above all, the adequacy of staff will now be ensured. When we know that this social welfare reform also includes the transfer of this rescue service to those areas, it cannot be that it leaves the way out of the way and is staffed in traffic. We should be able to put this thing in order. Was Mr Simula, who used to make a good speech here, feeling that now there are quite different interests on the top. There, large parties seem to be happy to distribute the Council Group’s money to ‘you,me’,for example,in view ofthis type ofrequirement at the region’s destination. In that sense, I now hope that there will be rats in these matters. When the Ministry of Finance is also responsible for the regional government agencies, i.e. the open doors, I would like to raise the issue that was raised yesterday with Mr Eestilä, namely environmental permits. For example, during the third year, Yara's environmental permit decisions have been awaited in the gates of Eastern Finland. This is an incomprehensible situation. At the moment, there is a crying shortage of fertilizers in the world, the prices of fertilizers are rising, Yara will have to wonder if, if this issue is not resolved, there will be no further progress in the matter as to whether or not the fertilizer factory will be taken down from Finland. So it is the only phosphate fertiliser plant in Europe. In such a world situation, where we are, it cannot be that one avi keeps about half of the world’s phosphate production under tension at the moment. We need to be able to fix this. That is what I would now like to send my regards to the Minister for Finance. I hope that resources in the direction of openings will be such that things will not stand up in this way. Of course, we are not going to interfere in these decisions, but if it is a question of things standing because there are not enough resources, then the resources must be put in order. Finally, I would like to remind the Minister of Finance that today the Christian Democrats have published their own alternative budget, and there we point out that the most acute situation at the moment is, however, the lack of care staff and that we should really go now to find solutions. The Christian Democrats show that solutions can be found and, at the same time, we are able to keep the framework of government finances in order. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u156	Thank you. — Representative Räsänen, gone. Congressman Pie, gone. Congressman al-Taee, gone. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u157	Mr President! We Finns are often accused of not wanting to help people in distress.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u160	Thank you. — Representative Asell, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u161	Mr President! The supplementary budget includes an increase in the student income limits, which will add EUR 3.4 million to the budget for the payment of student aid. Raising the student income limit is a worthy step. It will allow an increase of around EUR 3000 to the annual income that a student can make without losing his or her student money. That income limit will rise to EUR 15600 next year. The student organisations have also supported this increase in the income limit, but they hope it will be a permanent increase, and some also proposed a fairer increase than this 25% and also that it should be permanent rather than fixed-term. The budgetary impact is not negative because, even if it costs 3.4 million next year, it is estimated that the tax revenue generated by the work of students will rise by more than EUR 24 million next year. These estimated tax impacts arise from the increase in the revenue from consumption taxes and corporate taxes resulting from increased employment. This investment, i.e. raising income limits, reduces student poverty. Furthermore, during this period of labour shortages in many areas, the work input of students will also facilitate this situation. The increase in income limits has been calculated to have an increase of around 2,000 employed persons. Of course, we must also be concerned that the conditions and incentives of students regard the main issue as a matter of urgency, i.e. the study process and the completion of studies on time. But the government has the right direction here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u162	Thank you. — Representative Mäenpää is gone. — Mr Kiljunen, if three minutes is enough, you have the floor and then the Minister. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u163	Mr President! I'll follow that three-minute rule. I would like to reply to the Minister when he stayed to reflect on the difference between investment and consumption in his speech, which he has just made, and, admittedly, it is a line drawn in the water in many places. In the national accounts, however, this aggregate demand is distributed in terms of total demand for investment, consumption and exports, and defence expenditure such as the destroyer is considered to be public consumption investment. It is that, it is the use of the end product, it can increase investment security, it is an investment in security, but it is public consumption expenditure. This consumption expenditure can also have a positive multiplier effect, especially if it is directed towards the domestic market, and therefore the very important role of this HX acquisition is on this 30% basis that this industrial cooperation would cover 30% of this total price, which is now the order authorisation of EUR 10 billion. There will be 25,000 jobs, if 30% is fulfilled, over this ten-year period, calculated from the defence and aviation industries, and in that sense it will be a major contributor to the economy. I therefore hope that, when the Council of State decides on this HX acquisition, the maximum amount of this industrial cooperation would also be considered in the assessment of the comparison of these fighter candidates, assuming, of course, that the candidate fulfils the obligation to fully fulfil that Hornets military performance also in relative terms, that this criterion will then be taken into account. From that point of view, the Minister is quite right that this investment will also have an economic impact if the amount of industrial cooperation is correctly measured. And the last sentence, as I see the passing of minutes, is that these five fighter candidates really have a big difference in this regard, a really big difference. The level of industrial cooperation is quite different in certain fighter projects compared to another. I'm not going into details.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u164	Thank you. — And Minister Saarikko, no more than 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u165	Mr President! Thank you for the debate and for the very varied handling of the matter, both in terms of the principles of economic policy and in relation to a few details of this supplementary draft budget. First of all, this issue of Kuopio Emergency College, which has discussed a lot in a way that was well described by Mrs Essayah. This presentation from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Finance has become quite normal, and according to the information I received at Kuopio Rescue College, this proposal would guarantee 36 new starting places for 2022, and then there is this Swedish-language education solution, in which Kuopio will then present its own assessment of the training, where and with whom and in what ways it will be carried out specifically for the best possible training in Swedish-language civil protection. Thank you, Mr Essayah, also for the KD's alternative budget. I'm sure I'll get to know it. And with interest I expect a similar debate as soon as possible next week in order to pave the way for the other opposition parties as well. Mr Asell referred to this debate on income limits. This is the way I see it: now this is a fixed-term solution with that 25% increase. It is very interesting to see what its impact will be next year, especially now that there are huge numbers of job vacancies and demand for students in the labour market. Since I am well aware that the other aspect, apart from this strengthening of employment, is that young people's studies must also move forward, this is a balance between them. However, my position was strongly influenced by it and I was very proactive in promoting this when I looked at how long it had been since these income limits had been raised and how clearly it was possible to calculate impact assessments for employment as well. So my own thinking is very open to the fact that this could obviously also become a permanent change, but since it has a wide range of effects, it is good that next year this will be evaluated. There was also a time — how I would put it — for interesting speeches on this refugee debate. In my opinion, the most sustainable immigration policy, through refugee quotas, is to assume international responsibility, taking into account the demanding and reliable process by which the people most in need of assistance will be selected, including Finland's assistance and place here. And this government solution is now tied to this particular situation in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u168	Thank you. — The debate and proceedings are thus suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u169	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — The debate continues. Mr Eestilä is absent, Mr Marttinen is absent, Mr Sipilä is absent, Mr Eskelinen is absent — Mr Asell.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u170	Mr President! There is a supplementary proposal for next year's budget. This supplement includes, among other things, compensation for the fall in returns on gambling, which will total almost EUR 74 million. So this is over the previous compensation decision, i.e. 330 million. I therefore consider this decision, which will now be 100% compensation for next year, to be very important and important from the point of view of sports and cultural organisations dependent on the funding of Veikkaus. For some reasons due to the interest rate, the entry rate has fallen by almost 30 per cent and during the interest rate the gaming machines have been shut down — for example, the games of sport stopped because the events were banned in Finland and around the world. This prevailing situation has been the main threat to the funding of physical activity, because at the moment physical activity is almost entirely dependent on these gambling revenues. In addition, it has been estimated that gambling revenues will be permanently reduced due to measures taken to prevent gambling disadvantages. It is important for problem gambling to be addressed and thus prevent nausea, The purpose of the bet is to finance well-being-enhancing activities. Of course, there is a contradiction that funding good things will also enable unhealthy gambling and thus serious problems for some players. It is therefore good that these instruments for managing gambling have been developed and regulated. However, it is important to secure the resources of physical activity and culture in the future when a certain amount of revenue is due to fall. So next year's funding has now been secured. Finnish sport and culture and other beneficiaries thank the government for this. Next autumn, however, the challenge is likely to be faced again. I think it is important that the level of funding for important organisational work can be secured over a long period of time. I would like to make another very good point in this supplementary budget, namely this increase in student income limits, EUR 3.4 million. Raising the student income limits is a worthwhile measure and will allow an increase of around EUR 3000 per year for the student who works alongside the study. This has been widely supported by student organisations, but they have put forward a more long-term solution — this is a fixed-term one — and that it would be a permanent withdrawal of more than 25%. This effort, raising the income threshold, will reduce student poverty, and also during this time, when we are suffering from labour shortages in many areas, the work input of students would also make this situation easier. Of course, we must also ensure that students are able to graduate and progress in their studies, which also needs to be taken into account. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u171	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u172	Honorable Madam Speaker! When this budget for next year and the additional government proposal were discussed earlier this afternoon, several speakers drew attention to the good speeches made by Minister Saarikko, in which he stressed the need to act within the spending limits, stressed the need to prioritise expenditure and, at the meeting of the National Council, he now stated in a very colorful and original way — whether this was the case — that the centre was not going to be in a government where it was going to colluding with the rejection of the economic group — a fine re-use of the word "climbing". But these speeches by Minister Saariko are taking a strange light, because he is now a minister, a finance minister, a left-wing government that does not stick to the frameworks that do not set priorities and which, in order to use the expression of Minister Saarikko, is scheming with the rejection of the economic bloc. For example, the fact that the government does not prioritise expenditure is well reflected in the fact that this government is not in a position to reduce any less important expenditure, on the contrary, all the minor expenditure savings that it has been able to provisionally agree on last spring have fallen back when, of course, they have given rise to opposition. There is not a single item of expenditure in the budget that would not give rise to opposition, that is quite clear. Now Minister Saarikko has announced that he will convene the five before Christmas, and at this meeting he has said that he wants assurances from other government partners that next spring the frameworks will be maintained, i.e. in those frameworks that are now in force, which have already exceeded the frameworks decided upon by the government itself at the beginning of the parliamentary term, which also exceeded the limits of the Sipilä Government by 1.4 billion. Well, what's this meeting of five gonna do? Every government partner will come to Minister Saarikko to tell us that of course they are going to stay in the frame, and this is actually being tested only then in the spring. Nobody from the government parties is going to say that we want to tear the frame open, even though, of course, there are additional needs in the minds of all parties to put money on, but there are no corresponding savings to be made. I would have liked an answer from Minister Saarikko when he was there, but unfortunately I did not get it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u173	Congressman Pie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u174	Madam President! The first speech was passed when we were in other parliamentary work, but fortunately I was still able to do this. I would simply say to Mrs Zyskowicz that I assume that the five will agree in good cooperation on how to move forward with the debate in the spring or with that framework, and I believe that enough of this has already been done here. Mr President! The supplementary draft budget for the year 22 includes a proposal for a reduction in the proceeds from gambling activities of EUR 73.8 million in compensation to beneficiaries. Together with the EUR 330 million already proposed in the actual budget, the proposal will ensure the continuity of important organisational activities for next year in both social work and culture. In the supplementary budget, there is a solution to secure funding for cultural actors who are in a difficult position because of the global pandemic, the interest rate, who are doing valuable work next year. The successful crisis management of Prime Minister Sanna Marin's government and the chosen economic policy are reflected in strong economic growth. Our economy has recovered from the corona crisis much faster than other euro countries: employment has risen above the pre-embroidery level, Finland is relatively one of the least indebted countries in the corona crisis, and the debt ratio could fall as early as next year. Unlike the periods of cuts in the financial crisis, the economy has now been revived and strongly supported. As a result of the previous two crises, the financial crisis and the euro crisis, the government debt ratio grew by about 30 percentage points before consolidation, and now the debt ratio has only increased by 10 percentage points. Economic policy has been successful. Mr President! Properly sized, successful management of the corona crisis and fiscal policy have enabled the economy to recover rapidly from the damage caused by the crisis. The Ministry of Finance predicts an increase of 2.9 per cent for next year and an increase of 3.3 per cent for this year. Most forecasts predict an increase of more than 3% next year. Until a year ago, such a good development seemed unlikely. The government's line is paying off. We must now focus on building sustainable growth and safeguarding people's well-being. This year, budgetary imbalances and revenue are greatly reduced as rapid economic and employment growth increases tax revenues and thus reduces unemployment expenditure. The employment rate has risen to a pre-emergence level of 72.7%. In August 2021 it was the highest employment rate in Finland in the last 30 years. Mr President! It is good to remember that the frameworks were abandoned in spring 2020 due to the interest rate crisis, and the agreed level of expenditure at the beginning of the parliamentary term will be exceeded by EUR 900 million and EUR 500 million next year in 2023. In 2023, EUR 370 million will be allocated to the adjustment of expenditure, and the adjustment will result in a lower level of central government expenditure in 2024 than in the VM proposal. Public finances were also reinforced by the EUR 100 million tax solutions decided in the budget debate 2021. The temporary overrun of the spending limits will gradually return to a permanent reduction in expenditure. This is a responsible and justified choice of economic policy. This will bring the economy closer to a long-term potential growth path, make the post-column management fair and stabilise public finances. This will create soil for the predictability of the economy of future generations and keep the economy running in all parts of Finland. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u175	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in relation to the scheduled items. — I will open the debate. Presentation, Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u176	Mr President! In connection with the debate on the recent comprehensive supplementary draft budget and in connection with the most recent Veikkaus package: There is now a Government proposal to the Parliament for a law supplementing the Government’s proposal to temporarily amend Article 4 of the lottery tax Act, which forms part of a package of measures to compensate beneficiaries for the fall in the revenue generated by gambling. This solution is in line with the previous compensation decision and its financial basis in the mid-term review. The Government decided to secure the funding level for the beneficiaries of the year 22, as well as for 2021, and this year and next year therefore correspond to the level of funding that existed before the interest rate period in 2019 for the beneficiaries in terms of science, art, culture, youth and social organisations, sport and so on. Of the resulting additional compensation of around EUR 77 million, EUR 18.7 million will be implemented through a reduction in the lottery tax. The proposal proposes that the rate of taxation applicable to exclusive lotteries, which is proposed to be reduced from 12% to 5% for the years 22 and 23 in the supplementary government proposal, should be reduced even further to 3.4% for next year. For the year 23 this percentage is not proposed to be amended. As in the supplementary proposal, the law is intended to enter into force from the beginning of next year and to remain in force until the end of 23.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u177	Thank you for the introduction. — Mr Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u178	Mr President! Very briefly, it is quite clear that this proposal will come. This complements the proposal's own financial contribution, which we have already discussed in this House this autumn. I say the same as in the previous paragraph that this is good and it is essential that these compensations come next year, and that is one part of their funding. And I would add that we in the tax section have already dealt with this in advance, and I am sure our report will also be on this shortly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u179	Thank you. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u180	Mr President! Statistics Finland published recent data on the price development of our country last week. Consumer prices are on the rise, and it is not surprising that higher prices of petrol, diesel and electricity are contributing to this. The fact sheet also mentioned a few less expensive issues that held back price increases. Gambling was said to be cheaper than before. Few Finns bounce with joy if the gas tilts, but the playing is cheaper. Fuels and electricity are essentials that keep our country viable. Changes in their prices therefore have a direct impact on how viable our country is. Price changes in gambling, on the other hand, affect how much money citizens lose in the fund of Veikkaus. It is certain that year after year it has been an unreasonable amount. Unlike the citizen's purse, This government, too, is prepared to preserve the money of the bet. The machines are ruining the public's economy and causing a huge amount of damage to the game. However, they secure the income of the bet, and corruption must therefore continue. Continuity and artificial respiration to the system at the end of its path will be given at any time under what pretext. When the funding of organizations dependent on gambling addictions and huge amounts of gambling has been threatened, the system that exceeded the expiry date has been re-inhaled. Even if all other payments and taxes by the government were raised, the lottery tax is ready to be calculated. It's calculated so as to: The cashier of the bet stays in good shape and the distribution of money stained by gambling problems is allowed to continue. There seems to be enthusiasm for policy action only when the position of the bet and the system based on it are under threat. On the other hand, there seems to be no enthusiasm for policy action when the well-being of Finns is threatened. What makes this grotesque is that sometimes long ago the welfare of the citizens was still the idea of the whole system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u181	Congressman Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u182	Mr. Speaker! Mr Viitanen, not so much in his speech just now, but in his speech in the previous debate, stressed the good work done by the organisations supported by the winning funds, and that it was therefore entirely right that the government itself withdrew its earlier decision that the reduction in the profit margin would only be offset by 80%, if I remember the figures. This speech by Mr Viitane was well founded, which means that these organisations are doing an enormous amount of valuable work in the field of physical activity, social work and, of course, in the field of culture. Of course, even in that organization field there is certainly a need to look a little more closely at the activities, and of course these organisations themselves need to consider whether they can be developed, and how, their own activities, and possibly even combine their activities with other organisations that do exactly the same. But, Mr Viitanen, the problem is not that when new needs arise, such as the reduction in the profit margin here, new needs were created, i.e. to compensate these organisations for the risk of loss of income — the problem is not that this is the way to compensate for and take account of new needs, but that the problem is that this left-wing government in Marin will not be able to save money from something else, something less important. This is the problem, and when Minister Saarikko emphasizes in his interviews and press releases and in his speeches to the Council of Party that priorities must be set and frameworks must be respected, one has to ask who he is talking to, because it is this government that has not prioritised matters, this government has not kept to the frame. Now that Minister Saarikko has said — and has just said — that by Christmas he wants all the government parties to commit to these new frameworks, which are, therefore, the overruns of the frameworks that have been created by the beginning of the government, which are also 1.4 billion more per year than when the government of Juha Sipilä has ended — when Minister Saarikko now says that he wants the other parties in the government or all the parties to commit to these new frameworks, of course they will do it before Christmas and say, as they have already said to you, Minister, that ‘we have not proposed any restructuring’. But what is the meaning of this pre-Christmas commitment? Nothing. What is essential is what can then be agreed in the spring. [Quick Five] And will it be possible to... [President : Thank you!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u183	Thank you. — Now I say that we are dealing with a temporary amendment of Article 4 of the lottery tax law according to the government's proposal that if we stick to the issue in general. — Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u184	Mr President! I'm trying to keep up with the subject, as you requested. Listening now to these statements by the opposition on this matter, in some way a very confused feeling arose. I did recognise from Mr Tynkkyse's speech that he intervened in this amendment to the lottery tax law, that there is also the problem-dependence behind it, but if we take into account all these actions of the bet that are being carried out there, we will try to avoid these gambling addiction problems. It is a genuine situation, it is a genuine social problem, and it is, of course, a good thing to discuss it. I would also like to thank Mr Tynkkyse for that. On the other hand, Mr Zyskowicz's speech went a little over the top. Yes, he recognized the motivation behind this change: this is primarily to protect the use of Veikkaus' funds for cultural institutions, social projects, social organisations and sports organisations. This is what we want to defend. And Mr Zyskowicz asked, asked and asked the Minister many times, many times, what is the reality here, if this were to be protected, when there was another way of doing this than through the lottery law, in other words to make cuts somewhere else, saves on something else, tell us, Minister, what would you cut off and so on where the savings lists are made? Can I have Mr Zyskowicz, just one small question and an answer to that? You used a long jeremiad, even a toilet on this matter: what should be cut off, prioritize things. Would it be possible, Mr Zyskowicz, at some point to obtain a list of what your priority is? What is the list from which you are cutting: is it possibly this defence expenditure that we were talking about a moment ago, whether it is a block or another block? I would like to hear the answer, and do not keep asking the Pharisees to tell me where you are cutting. You tell me what you're cutting from.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u185	Thank you. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u186	Mr President! However, I completely disagree that Mr Veikkaus would like to reduce the risk and dependence of gambling. Veikkaus is a state-owned company whose job is to make profits for its owner and also to earn the money of gambling addicts that are then distributed to various organizations, arts, sports and so on, to good things in itself, but if gambling addiction decreases, so that people do not become addicted to being forced to play, it is quite clear that Veikkaus is not able to earn so much money. There's a clear contradiction here. The reason why these things have been made every time in relation to the situation cosmetic changes have been made — I am talking about cosmetic changes just because when we are aware of the fact that we have more than 100,000 gambling addicts, these are very cosmetic changes — it has not been that Veikkaus has somehow been a responsible operator as a state company, who has rightly wanted to take care of these people, whom it has cost decades before this unification came, but it has been the fact that the pressure of our citizens and therefore the pressure of our politicians has guided the Veikkaus in the direction that then we have started to do this kind of action, that we could reduce the disadvantages of the game. This is in no way at the heart of the operation of the bet that they themselves would like to do it. That is why we have such a responsibility here in Parliament to talk about these issues and to exert pressure, and of course it also affects us through the Board of Directors that this can be addressed. The bet is not going to do anything about it unless we put pressure on it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u187	Thank you. — Mr Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u188	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen, you noticed that I went to the toilet and made a long speech — unfortunately you did not listen to what I said. In my speech, I never asked a party or a representative to tell me what, in other words, alternative targets could be saved in order, for example, to secure the profits of those who have won the lottery without undue expenditure increases. I didn't ask you to do that, Congressman Kiljunen. On the other hand, I asked Minister Saarikko to tell me what the joy and benefit is of this confession of lips, which all the government partners will be making before Christmas to say that they will be able to stay in the frame when the real test is only there in the spring spending limits. When you asked, Mr Kiljunen, about the savings in the coalition, next week in this Chamber we will be discussing our alternative budget, and you will certainly be involved, as well as Mr Viitanen, as well as as known hardworking and energetic debaters. I will just say at this point that I have often said in this Chamber that we spend more than EUR 2 billion per year on housing aid, which mainly benefits housing companies and private housing investors. All success for their business, but is it really a matter for taxpayers with over EUR 2000 million a year to support their business?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u189	I now hope that this debate will remain in this temporary amendment of Article 4 of the lottery tax law, not in any other way. — Mr Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u190	In short, it remains in the amendment of the lottery tax law and in the arguments that have been used in this regard. These gambling handicaps, which are the background to this lottery tax law, are of course a common social phenomenon in which, of course, even the bet has a role to play. Mr President, there are, of course, other dependencies: we have alcohol dependence, we have tobacco dependence — all of these are problems that are also being tackled by society’s legislation. You're right about this. Mr Zyskowicz, yes, Mr Viitanen here whispered to me that, when it comes to the convention's cut list now — thank you for that, one sentence after another. We knew that housing allowance would come, as there will certainly be other things to vaccinate people with lower incomes, poorer people in absolute terms, but you did not put business subsidies or defence expenditure on your list, for example. Thank you. I noticed that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u192	Congressman Eestilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u193	Mr President! When we talk about lottery tax and tax returns and that compensation, we often talk about organizations and only about them, but now I want to point out that we have a Finnish horse and I don't think anyone would be here to talk about these things if we didn't have a Finnish horse, and it has its own day in September. Finnish horse racing could not, and the Finnish horse could not live at all, and the family would not continue if we did not receive the money through this way, and it is currently just under 40 million of what we get. It is a prerequisite for horse breeding, for special farming, for horse racing and for everything, and this too must be borne in mind that it is not always about the organisations for which this money is secured. And, as the Prime Minister said, this is guaranteed for everyone, and at least I myself am on the side of agriculture, forestry and also horse farming.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u194	Congressman Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, the most important thing is not where that money comes from, but that it comes from. And here Mr. Eestilä brought up the Finnish horses. We rarely talk here about horse racing and horse economy. After all, it is estimated that the horse economy employs about 15,000 people, so that it is quite a significant factor. It should be noted that it is the agricultural industry, the business of many traders, horse-riding teachers and so on, and also a very important so-called tool in this case, including, for example, social pedagogical horse racing, which has also faced challenges in obtaining the rehabilitation guidance budget of the Social Insurance Institution for that activity. But it's a good thing Eestilä brought up that race sport. We should always respect the Finnish horse so close to Independence Day. After all, the Finnish horse has been the hero of our wars in addition to man. Without it, we would not have survived the wars in Finland. And I have made an annual statement in Parliament that the Finnish horse would be considered a celebration of Finland's independence. That initiative has always cost EUR 0, but to date I have not received a majority in Parliament in these votes. And now that the votes are getting closer, I appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, if this year the Finnish horse were to be made a festive animal of Finnish independence. I have taken that initiative again, and I look forward to this with hope. This wouldn't even cost you anything. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u196	If I now say that there is a government proposal for a temporary amendment to the lottery tax as a law here, and let us focus on that. — Mr Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u197	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Yes, it must be that Veikkaus's margin and thus his operating profit have decreased considerably. Operating profit and income for the state in 2017 amounted to 1021 million and last year to 680 million. And with this government proposal, some 70 to 90 million will be brought to the benefit of the beneficiaries, so that the state will not have to compensate again with the other hand. Well, the presentation is good in itself, and it is to be welcomed, but I would see that some other kind of action would also have to be taken. In my opinion, responsibility measures have been quite reasonable, but then again these online blogs are expensive for the financial sector, for example, and then they can be a little unworkable. But I think that this government proposal itself is a good one.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u198	Thank you. — No more than 2 minutes have been allocated to this matter at this stage and 2 speeches have been made. — Mr Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u199	Mr President! Very briefly. It is not just the funding of these important organisations that is at stake here, but the big structural issue that is included in the Finnish economic system that in practice the entire sports budget, all parts of the state, is financed by the profit margin. And that's why this is a really big structural question, too. I wanted this as a complement — the horse’s side too, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u200	Thank you. — Mr Mäkynen Matias, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u201	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. This government proposal that this compensation can be made next year is very important and necessary from the point of view of the beneficiaries mentioned in this debate. Organisations, Finnish horse, but also science and research receive funding from this same source, and it is important to ensure that there are no sudden changes and that there is time to adapt to them. At the same time, the bigger picture here is what Mr Tynkkynen has rightly said, that we must take care of this responsibility and reduce the risk of gambling. It's been done. This autumn we have discussed the amendment of the lottery law and increased these measures to promote security and this prevention of gambling risks. In the longer term, it is important that consensus is reached on how the general principles of the use of gambling proceeds will be developed in the future and, at the same time, the conditions for organisational work will be safeguarded. In other words, this kind of disconnection is likely to lie ahead, but with what model and with what timetable, it is important to find a parliamentary consensus on it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u202	Thank you. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u203	Thank you, Mr President. When we talk about this lottery tax, I am very much disturbed here by the huge marketing of the bet by more representatives, especially those on the Socialist side, that now that these changes are being made, it is said that the bet is the reason why these parties have money. But this is just such an arrangement that through Veikkaus money is paid to the state and that money has then been earmarked for organizations, science, sports and so on, it is not due to Veikkaus. These funds could be structured in a different way, so that they would only go into the general budget and then the state would support them without any mark-up on the bet. I know that many people in this Chamber have been sitting on the Board of Governors of Veikkaus and so on, but in accordance with the authority of this Parliament, we should not be any Veikkaus marketers or propaganda people, but we should be talking about things in the right names. This is just the arrangement, and that is how we have put the money into circulation. Hopefully this system will be dismantled in the future and this disconnection will be completed. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u204	And Minister Saarikko, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u205	Mr President! First of all, one technical observation: when the supplementary draft budget dealt with the whole of this compensation, which was now concentrated on it, the total was adjusted to 74 million — this tax proposal was made by an estimate of 77 million. Why the different numbers? Because the estimate was revised along the way. That is what I wanted to clarify. Well, then Mr Zyskowicz wondered about the frameworks and this motion. This proposal could be made within the framework, which is why, in a way, the debate on frameworks in this context is not as relevant as this is. But then it is, of course, in more difficult waters that the frameworks, which have been resolved in the middle row, depart from a solution in which the compensation for the beneficiaries of the bet for 23 is 110 million lower than this figure. And as far as Mr Tynkkysen's strong speeches on the position of Mr Veikkaus are concerned, neither this bill nor the supplementary budget solution will take a position on the matter as a company, but these are solutions for the beneficiaries. A whole other social question is whether there would be a better system, as you seem to suggest, but this is related to the sudden, major transformation of beneficiaries, which was further weakened by the interest rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u206	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Committee on Legal Affairs must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Presentation, Minister Harakka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u207	Honorable Mr. Speaker! This is a government proposal which sets out a new law on the transport of dangerous goods. The current law dates back to 94 and the time has indeed come to reform the legislation as a whole. The new law is therefore intended to enter into force at the beginning of 23 C.E. Transport of dangerous goods is widely served by Finnish industry and consumers. The transport of dangerous goods includes many raw materials and preparations from chemical production and storage plants, as well as the transport of liquid fuels and gases. Various products are transported for use in other industries and production and for retail sale. In addition to conventional consumer products such as aerosols and paints, dangerous substances are also transported for agricultural and forestry purposes. These include fertilisers and pesticides. Waste is transported in accordance with the rules for the transport of dangerous goods if it has characteristics classified as hazardous in transport. However, most of the materials transported are fuel oils and transport fuels. It can therefore be said that the transport of dangerous goods plays an important role in the day-to-day operation of our society. The transport of dangerous goods involves a wide range of operators. The normal transport chain consists of the consignor, the carrier and the consignee. There are also companies providing forwarding and logistics services, as well as manufacturers and dealers of packaging, tanks and transport units used for transport. Inspection bodies recognised by the authorities assess, verify and grant approvals to packaging and containers. In addition, the organisations approved by the authorities carry out periodic roadworthiness tests on vehicles and trailers each year and grant vehicle type-approvals. The legislation also contains provisions and obligations for passengers, for example when travelling on an aeroplane. The scope of the proposed law covers all modes of transport and therefore the scope of the proposed law is also quite wide in terms of content. Ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of the Government's proposal is to create a coherent package of requirements for the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail, ship and air and to streamline regulation. The aim is to improve transport safety and, in particular, to combat possible environmental damage. The reform will update the obsolete provisions to meet today's requirements and will clarify and harmonise some of the unclear regulations at the moment. The aim is also to make legislation on the transport of dangerous goods more compatible with the constitutional requirements. The proposal takes full account of international transport agreements and EU legislation. This government proposal contains new provisions on, for example, the responsibilities of the various transport partners, the tasks of the authorities, competences and qualifications, as well as on the preparedness and security measures for security threats related to the transport of dangerous goods. The proposal proposes changes to the controls on the transport of dangerous goods and to the penalties for breaches of the law. The Finnish Transport and Communications Agency would be the coordinator who would continue to operate under the supervision of the authorities. The proposal also introduces changes to the regulation of places for the temporary storage of dangerous substances. In future, an internal emergency plan should be drawn up for temporary storage sites, with the exception of aerodromes, and a person responsible for safety should be appointed. Mr President! The Government's proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous goods has been prepared under the leadership of the Ministry of Transport and Communications in good cooperation with the authorities, companies and stakeholders. The presentation took place in a broad consultation in the summer of this year. The proposal has been prepared carefully and in accordance with the good way in which the law is being drafted — I am pleased to note that this has also been stated by the Legislative Evaluation Council in its opinion. I hope that this important government proposal will also receive a positive response here in Parliament. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u208	Thank you for the introduction. — Representative Kymäläinen, absent.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u209	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Congressman Eestilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u210	Mr President! This situation in Teno is difficult in many ways. There are many different views about who gets to fish and how. I am not going to go into them now, but the hope is that there will be some way of resolving these issues in Parliament in peace, and there is also a government proposal in the Constitutional Committee at the moment. They should be resolved by constitutional law so that the various parties are satisfied. Since this now concerns a slightly different issue, however, Teno and fisheries, I think it is right that this fishing rule should now be extended by the exchange of notes until May 2024. As it goes this far, this House should not be hasty in dealing with fisheries and fishing rights issues, and we should pay particular attention to this: I understand that locals are allowed to fish there, but it is a little difficult for me to understand that property rights are treated differently on a housing basis. It is a little difficult for me, through Finnish legislation and the constitution, to understand why this should be the case. But, Mr President, I would like to comment so much on the future that, for some reason, the officials in the ministry are very negative about setting quotas for the fisheries of the Teno River. In other parts of the world, the Tornio River, everywhere, has quotas when there are few salmon. I think that we should now adopt strict quotas, even if one fish per licence is fished for three days a week, but we should not allow the total ban to continue, because there are boats there, there are many kinds of infras there, and this should be regarded as active, that people come there and support tourism, that the tourism entrepreneurs receive this continuity, but so that all the time we see how much wild salmon is rising and fished only as much as sustainable fishing allows. This extension of the total bans is a very damaging solution for many groups of people, and I hope that this proposal will now be taken seriously by the ministry officials there, that we should go to those quotas — of course they are always unpleasant — and that we should limit fishing days, that is, fishing as much as is required by the availability of fish and the rise of salmon. I would like these things to be able to move forward with Norway, but this solution, that it was moved to 2024, gives us time. I hope that then, in real legal terms and in accordance with constitutional doctrines, a good outcome will be achieved for all groups of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u211	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Congressman Mäkynen, Matias, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u212	Mr President! This Government proposal amends the Accounting Act, and the purpose of its amendment is that the Finnish tax and customs authorities should in future be entitled to access the accounting records of a foreign company. This reform will help to combat the shadow economy and make companies that actually have a permanent establishment in Finland subject to the right of information of the authorities. This will enable us to balance tax avoidance and also strengthen public finances for our small part. Combating the shadow economy is a very important issue and also an important strategic priority for the Government Programme, and these individual small legislative reforms will contribute to this issue in order to make it increasingly difficult to giggle taxes away from the country where the result has actually been achieved. And this is one concrete step in that direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u213	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 16/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Congressman Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u214	Mr President! This came very quickly to this, but this is therefore about the amendments to the Income Tax Scale Act and some other reforms, and I am presenting the committee's report here. In other words, first of all this income tax will be subject to this traditional index check and will lead to a total reduction in taxes of more than EUR 500 million. And the committee feels that this is justifiable in itself. This is, in fact, quite a solution that Parliament is used to doing in the past, that is to say, ensuring that no one is taxed more heavily. At the same time, certain changes are made to the basic deduction of municipal taxation as well as to this reduction in labour income. And so, Mr President, is this solidarity tax being maintained, which our committee also considers to be quite justified. There will also be changes to this, President, with regard to the household allowance. All in all, they are a little like this, as is said of a fixed-term, experimental nature. What is important is that we now have the opportunity to make oil heating more environmentally friendly this time, also through a reduction in the household, so that the conditions for this will be improved and, of course, encourage these changes in the forms of heating. And so it has been agreed that the possibility of supporting other energy renovations through this household reduction will also be explored in the future. Personally, I also think it is important to record what has been done in this budget debate that the possibility of extending this household allowance to housing companies is being examined, which means that, in a more equal way in the future, the residents of blocks of flats and terraced houses could also benefit from the household allowance in large renovations. And the committee welcomes this and considers this to be well-founded. I would like, President, to draw attention to a few points which the committee also stresses in relation to the reduction in household income in this report. We are talking about the fact that, in any case, when we are now dealing with this household allowance, we believe it is important that, at the same time, we look at how different forms of support can be used to develop this system so that the lowest incomes can also benefit more than today. Similarly, we have noted here that the development of the household allowance should also take into account those living alone in the future. And this is at least what I get a lot of feedback from the citizens and it is hoped that this problem will be addressed. All in all, we also remind you that it is already possible to use the household allowance at the moment, for example, if renovations are made in the dwelling used by parents or grandparents. At the moment, this benefit is very little used and we think it is worth encouraging people, even in these times, in this interest. All in all, there are also some changes to the tax value of a company car, which will be reduced by EUR 85 per month, and we also believe that this is justified. This, too, is a fixed-term tax subsidy extending from 22 to 25 years, and is therefore targeted at cars with a carbon dioxide emission of at least one and a maximum of 100 grams. We consider this definition of this limit to be all right — it is a well-established definition of a low-emission car — and that is why we do not propose any further changes to it, although it may have been hoped in the expert consultation that the limit should be slightly lower or higher. But in practice we came to the conclusion that this definition is consistent, that definition is technologically neutral and can be considered reliable and objective. All in all, this definition includes all the hybrids to be charged and a small number of fully hybrid vehicles. This aid does not cover cars which do not contain any hybrid technology. We will then go a little over what would happen if we reduced or raised the borders, but this is now justified in our view. President, finally: This also includes a few changes related to forest taxation, which mainly concern these common forests. Firstly, in the future, combined forests would only retain the right to forest reduction if at least half of them are owned by natural persons or beds of death, and we also consider this change to be good and consistent. Then there is such a small thing, but the committee is also proposing a slight change to that, at the same time as this limitation is being made, so here the government is proposing that the interest on the debt on the acquisition of the share of the common interest in the acquisition of income be made deductible at the beginning of next year, but our committee believes that, in the interests of consistency, this should then be done somewhat retrospectively, that is to say already in the course of this year. So this is the bottom line, and this is our report in general.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u215	Thank you. — Representative Essayah absent. — Mr Vähämäki, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u216	Thank you, honourable Speaker! First of all, thank the President-in-Office for a good and precise presentation. Then, of course, we will come to the detailed reading to present these few amendments to paragraph 1 of our objection concerning the reduction in earnings. We would put in an additional relief of some 150 million and a corresponding reduction in pension income, and these would then be compensated for by the municipalities. These are in line with the guidelines of our alternative budget. It is actually a question of maintaining purchasing power, of the fact that increased electricity and gas prices have a considerable impact on people's purchasing power. The scale law and these other laws actually seem to us to be all right. As the scales are raised, the overall cost of living and the indices increase. On this budget, I would like to highlight the fact that a total reduction of 3985 million will be made next year, and this is already a very significant sum. This has risen by some 300 million in a few years, and the direction is quite good. A household allowance of 430 million will be granted next year, with an increase of approximately 60 million from two previous years. The pension income reduction is also rising by 230 million in total. It seems like a proper government proposal. Of course, we in the opposition want to give even more support to the purchasing power of our citizens. — I saw this briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u217	Thank you. — Mr Marttinen is absent. — Mr Savio, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vähämäki has already very well presented this objection from the Finns, but I will perhaps say a few more things in a word. As a whole, the Finns of Finland want to improve the purchasing power of Finns and also encourage people to work, and we believe that tax reductions are a valid method for both purposes. We therefore object to a reduction in income tax for workers in the form of a reduction in labour income and, in the form of a reduction in pension income, a reduction in tax for pensioners. Mr President! As a representative Vähämäki has also said, next week the opposition's alternative budgets will be on the table, and in this alternative budget of the Finns-based, we will make the necessary savings to compensate for these tax cuts, but that will be next week's issue in that regard. With regard to this reduction in labour income, I would also say that it would particularly help low and medium-income employees. If implemented, it would bring the most significant benefits in euro to employees with a monthly income of just under EUR 2000 — some EUR 3000, but there would also be clear benefits in many other income categories. Of course, a reduction in pension income would benefit Finns receiving a reasonable pension. Mr President! As Mr Vähämäki has already said, we Finns in Finland want Finns to continue to be able to make their living on their salary or during their previous career by earning a pension, and that is why we believe that these amendments to the Income Tax Act are both necessary and fair.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u219	Thank you. — Mr Eestilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u220	Mr President! Mr Viitanen here is also quite specific about car taxation, and that is a good thing. I would like to say in a constructive way that the support for the purchase of electric cars and many others concerning low-emission cars, the hybrids to be charged and others are in such a way somewhat unequal, that when we know that in Eastern Finland and perhaps in the north the greatest number of people have to drive long distances and that people are less well-off than in Southern Finland, I somehow feel that the car tax, the purchase of it, should be reduced everywhere. I do think that, fortunately, the debate on this car taxation is not going to be as intense as it was in the past. Now that it is already stated that transport emissions have decreased when people prefer electric cars, the hybrid to be charged is, frankly, more of a sort of tax evasion tool: many diesel cars actually consume twice as much as a rechargeable hybrid if the hybrid to be charged, the heavier car, is driven long distance. I think we should gradually consider the fact that the car tax is actually being completely abolished, because it is quite unequal. That is how the entire fuel taxation begins to lose its meaning. Car factories are constantly developing their own technology, and it is precisely car factories that have emission restrictions that become more stringent on average. In fact, as long as people buy new cars, even the less well-off and also in the north — whether they buy electric cars or other new cars — they go down the road all the time. We should be confident that the EU will help us here so that we do not have to invent a different kind of penalty tax for Finnish motorists themselves. I understand the importance of its income for the state, but it is only one day more unfair to certain groups of people and to those living in certain areas. Mr President! What is particularly good is that you have looked at these common forests and brought small, albeit very small, reliefs. But when we know that the various funds already own more than half a million hectares in Finland and the funds are sold abroad, these common forests provide Finns with an excellent form of ownership, and then, as I understand it, blue and white ownership is secured. In my opinion, there are perhaps 530 common forests in Finland at the moment. The forest area they own is about 800,000 hectares, so that it is not a small matter. I hope that, in a way, the change that is taking place in this Parliament will be seen, that is, Finnish forests will be running out of Finland's borders all the time because of emissions compensations and others. That this is a little like this loss of national property, and that should be viewed in this house
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u221	Thank you. — Mr Grahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u222	Mr President! Representatives of the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party in the Tax Section and the Committee on Finance have made a commendable protest, which contains key points, as the important observation that the government should recognise that in Finland labour taxation is very tight, in fact, in all income categories. In our neighbouring Sweden, the left-wing government with the SDP has on several occasions reduced the tax burden on labour. It is precisely work-related incentives and increased purchasing power that have been based on these criteria. If Finland were to reduce the tax burden on labour, it would give people greater opportunities to decide on their own money, so to speak. It would increase purchasing power, make doing and receiving work more encouraging, and would certainly increase employment and also the attractiveness of Finland in the eyes of international experts. It is also important to note that, although it does not include the fact that the government is preparing for a provincial tax, the assembly says absolutely no. In the scenario that we will have a new level of taxation in Finland, there is a significant and probable risk that it will increase the tax burden on employees, and we will not accept that. And a few words about the household allowance. During the Government's term of office, the government's relationship with the household allowance has been scurrying. At first, the household allowance was cut and the effects were underestimated. Well, here's a presentation that fixes this course and slightly improves the household allowance, which we welcome. The problem is that it is fixed-term and there is a need for a longer view and wider use of the household allowance. In other words, from our point of view, the Group's options would expand the household allowance more. In particular, I would like to raise this household allowance for those over 75 years of age. It would also be worth considering the government, a model that would significantly increase the household allowance for older people over the age of 75, so that it would support living at home, save on care expenses and also increase employment in the home services sector. The quality of life of a person would improve as it would be possible to obtain services that support everyday life at home. These are what I hope the government parties will seriously consider, and the coalition will present its own options in the budget debate through the alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u223	Thank you. — and the representative Up the hill, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u224	Mr President! Mr Viitanen, when he presented this issue, raised the issue of driving and then these low-emission forms of heating. As far as this car is concerned, when you talk about the aid for the purchase of an electric car, I wonder where the aid for the purchase of a gas car is, because driving with biogas is a far more ecological option than an electric car, you know that for sure. Then, when you were talking about the household allowance, you were also talking about low-emission forms of heating, about switching to them and about support for it. It should be changed in such a way that oil heating does not need to be removed if a low-emission or low-carbon heating form is put in it, because it is quite clear that people are using it, but to ensure such cold times it should be allowed to leave that oil heating, because very modern oil heating is now being turned into ground heat or air-water heating. Then I wonder that you have this fuel tax reduction forgotten the power of this proposal. Last year, when you raised, the government increased, that fuel tax, you appealed to it with an index increase. You did not consider it a tax increase, but you used the form of a ‘index increase’. And when I actively study the price of fuel a little, if we take as a starting point, for example, 1974, when fuel costing $1.20, the cost of fuel should be 1.20 per litre today in the cost index. In the name of this index increase, should we now review this fuel tax and slightly reduce it so that citizens can work and perhaps expand the working area a little? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u225	Thank you. — Mr Marttinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u226	Mr President! Here Mr Grahn-Laasonen gave an excellent speech on reducing the tax burden on labour and raising the household allowance. These are both included in the voting option. I would like to make a few key points about this: For one thing, throughout the years the Coalition Party has systematically advocated in this house that the hard work of working Finns should be rewarded more. This means, above all, that the taxation of labour must be reduced at all levels of income, and we have argued that this should be done both by increasing the reduction in labour income and then by using scales, for example, in such a way that work is better rewarded at all levels of income, in such a way that it is always more profitable to work than not leaving or not taking up work. And yet, Mr President, in this regard we know that work in Finland is very heavily taxed compared to many other European countries, and, admittedly, at least I myself have had the idea many times that, when we all want more work in Finland and more work to be done in order to finance welfare society services, what is the reason why we are taxing so heavily on what we want most in society? One conclusion is that, in the coming years, we must systematically continue to reduce the tax burden on labour, just as Sweden has done. There, too, the demaran-led government has continued to reduce the tax burden on labour and increase the household allowance, and I think that the current government of this country could take a model from across the sea and see what kind of policies have been taken to support employees, work, hard work in Sweden. Mr. Speaker! We are also proposing a significant increase in the household allowance. As far as I am concerned, I welcome the fact that certain fixed-term increases in the household allowance have now been proposed in this TVL, for example in relation to energy renovations, but I think it would be more clear from the point of view of the tax system and from the point of view of the people, that they should be made permanent and that the household allowance should be applied to all those services, not just by taking a few entities out of it and yet on a fixed-term basis, which, however, makes it confusing and difficult for people to understand. That is why we are proposing to increase the ceiling of the household allowance up to EUR 5000 so that we can support SMEs, small businesses and people's access to services, to purchase services elsewhere,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u227	Thank you. — Mr Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u228	Thank you, Mr President. As Mr Vähämäki said, the Finns have proposed a reduction in the tax burden on work over several years. Yes, people are interested in what is left in their hands, but it is also affected by what it costs to live. When we started talking about this fuel tax and other taxes, yesterday, the Finns of Finland, in Tuumaushour, proposed a 25 - percent reduction in electricity tax and fuel tax. Good government, you would have your calculations ready: Financial research has made calculations of the Finnish people's alternative, which would help people to genuinely get to work. We were on the Lapland tour this weekend with the party presidency, and I must say that the price of fuel is talking. Many wonder, ‘ How can we afford to do this even if it is normal? ’ You would have very good calculations here — please, government, you will have them for free. As far as support for residents is concerned, basic Finns have long been offering family carers and their family care support tax exemption. We all know that if a person were to go into institutional care, it would be very much more profitable economically, so this would be the right humane target. With regard to electric cars, I have to say to Mr Eestilä that no ordinary person can afford to buy an electric car despite the subsidies. They are very expensive, and if it is already quite a fresh car, perhaps bought by hire, then you well know that when you drive the car through the shop door, the price is already falling from EUR 5000 to EUR 6000 so that it swings even for the new one, so that it is not quite as simple as our income. This is a good thing to remember. High taxation also prevents those experts, who are always calling here, from coming to Finland. This has been studied and it is one thing that does not make Finland at all attractive that we have such a high tax burden. They go to other countries to work because we do not know how to tax work in moderation here. And as far as the household allowance is concerned, the government originally admitted that it was a savings law, and then later it was also said that when not everyone gets that household allowance, then one must come up with a tool, but anything we can do to get people to work and get around the economy would be very good. But let me say this once again: Good Government, take ready calculations from the Finns of how you calculate fuel tax and electricity tax and make it possible for everyone to live.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u229	Thank you. — Representative Essayah, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u230	Mr President! This is, therefore, the scale law here, and every year these scales are being revised just because we do not have a higher rate of taxation. Many representatives of the Finns Party have raised these questions about energy and then about transport fuels. There is another law of this kind, which is still in our committee at the moment, and I am sure that they will bring us to a particularly fruitful debate in that context. If you look at your own objection, then there is no consideration for these transport fuels.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u238	Thank you. — Congressman Talvitie, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u239	Mr President! Thank you, Congressman. Mrs Essayah has just raised the issue of the allowance for informal care in the field of taxation. That is an important point, but I will concentrate on this household allowance alone in this speech. A reduction in the household will support employment and combat the informal economy. The reduction is also an important support for the provision of services that help families with children and older people to make their daily lives easier. The reduction lowers the threshold for housework and repairs by outside professionals and prevents the informal economy. For the assembly, all the work, but especially the work that is done at home, is important and worth supporting and encouraging it. What has the government done this season? Calculated household allowance, reduced both the euro and these percentages. For two years we have been proposing, by means of the Coalition Party, that this reserve of EUR 100 should be completely abolished and the household allowance should be increased and not reduced, because it has an incentive effect and also the idea of supporting energy renovations by households and housing companies, for example, with this household allowance. The incentive effect should be given to citizens and households that, when you think about giving up oil heating in front of a kitchen table, you get rid of it, you take in geothermal heat or a solar power plant and you encourage and support it. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have proposed, in connection with the budget for the previous year and last year, that this household reduction should therefore be extended and increased. But the government decided then two years ago that these energy renovations in households would be managed precisely through this aid scheme, the aid scheme of between EUR 2500 and EUR 4400, which meant that the first eight months were expected to be completed and, when it was possible to apply for it, those decisions have been awaited. A few weeks ago, in the regional newspaper Kaleva in our region, there was an article on the fact that queues waiting for the decision of these aid schemes are between 8 and 10 months. One cannot help but wonder why this aid scheme could not be replaced by these incentives for energy renovations, subsidies, precisely through this reduction in the household. The Coalition Party proposes that the household allowance should be increased to EUR 5000 and that the percentage of the allowance should be increased to 60 and 40 per cent respectively.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u240	Thank you. — Mr Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u244	Congressman Eestilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u245	Mr President! I am taking the floor because it is not only for anyone who sometimes reads it, that Mr Markku Eestilä would not understand that not everyone can afford to buy an electric car. All the speeches I have made here over the last ten years have come from the fact that we have a lot of people who have no chance of buying an electric car, no chance of buying a new car and no chance of buying a second-hand car worth more than EUR 10,000.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u253	Congressman Kankaanniemi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u254	Mr President! To Mr Eestilä, I can say that we are quite in the same line on this issue of car taxes, and especially in relation to the situation of electric cars in Eastern and Northern Finland, my idea was at least personally correct. Mr President! I would remind myself that we are talking about income tax, not car tax, [The President : Yes! — The speaker laughs] We still have huge unemployment, and the threshold for receiving a job is quite high in that taxation is tightening and making work, especially in the case of distance work, in addition to these fuel prices, unprofitable, and when we cannot assume that social security is being cut — the assembly may have ideas to some extent, but it is not reasonable to make cuts in social security because it would hit those who are genuinely in need of social security — and from the point of view of the employment threshold cannot be reduced, then taxation will be another factor through which it can be reduced. Perhaps there is a slight difference between the taxation of labour once again, that the coalition has easily focused on the major incomes, on reducing their tax burden, because we have focused on the low and middle incomes, where the employment issue, and the perspective, is more important and more important. Of course, we admit that our progress is severe. The percentage of high income goes through heavy taxes, but perhaps it is not the biggest problem, but the fact that people do not have a job or it is not profitable to accept work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u257	Thank you. — Congressman Talvitie, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u258	Mr President! It is true that the government is now trying to correct these changes and errors in the early period with regard to this household allowance and to propose fixed-term increases. If we look at these energy renovations, then it is now a question of having two systems in place. There is this legislation, which is made up of these energy subsidies, the associated euro and the associated administration and bureaucracy. After all, we put additional funds in place for the ARA, both last year and this year, to deal with this aid scheme, and yet there are eight to ten months' queues at present. In that sense, with regard to these energy subsidies, this household reduction would have been the right solution at the time two years ago, when we know that it would only have been necessary to do this administrative bureaucracy at all with this minor amendment to the Income Tax Act and the decision to put new workers on the state's side to deal with these aid schemes. Although this will come afterwards, hopefully now, while in a few years' time the impact of this household allowance will be assessed, we will also consider the effectiveness of this energy support system.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u259	Thank you. — Mr Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u260	Mr President! To this end, I would just like to say that I thank the section for its cooperation in itself. I think that when we talk about tax policy, we are at the heart of such an economic policy, and that is why it is quite natural for different parties to have different options. That is why I have said yes here that I look forward to the moon coming up next week's debate and to seeing these alternative budgets. At least I personally regard the tax line that this government has chosen as very fair, good and right, namely that we are not going to blackmail anyone's income tax. On the contrary, small and medium-income earners have had a clearer reduction in the early stages, and now there is a reduction for everyone who ensures that taxation does not rise, and at the same time the necessary tax revenue is being sought through this expansion of the tax base, which is taking place elsewhere through other proposals. I think it is quite right that when we say that we are in the same boat in this economic situation, we must also get more rowers there from the good people and those who are currently able to avoid taxation or become very low-taxed. For example, various large investment incomes and others, which now often flow abroad to tax havens, are justifiably fair to tax, so that the entire Finnish economy and, above all, the Finnish people receive more tax revenue, because that is what we also need. It would be nice to say that taxes are to be borne by the state, all right here, right now, but then we know it — as we discussed more in those previous paragraphs, for example, on the spending framework and on the need to cut down hard — that in future we will need money to maintain a welfare society, care for the elderly, care for the children, education, everything that is important, and that is why we will not make it through a very small amount of taxation. But in no way should taxation make people’s purchasing power miserable — low-income pensioners have earned their income — and at the same time taxation must be fair. This may now have been my view of next week, mirroring it. In this context, I would like to thank you for your cooperation, and it is only natural that there will be opposition from the opposition, and next week we will go into them more closely. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u261	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 15/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Presentation, Mr Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u262	Thank you, Mr President. As chairman of the committee, I will present the report. Among other things, the proposal proposes to amend Chapter 34a of the Criminal Code on terrorist offences. The most important changes proposed are the extension of the scope of the provisions relating to terrorist groups by providing for the general criminal prosecution of the role of a terrorist group in the conduct of terrorist criminal activities and the imposition of a public call for terrorist offences. The preparation of the legislative changes proposed in the proposal is based on the Government's guidelines on the necessary legislative changes related to the repatriation of Finns from the Al-Holi camp in December 2019. At that time, the issue of the scope and comparability of regulation relating to terrorist organisations and groups was raised, in particular, in relation to the legislation of other countries. The proposal is based on the work of the working group. In its report, the committee considers it important that Finland's legislation on terrorist offences and its coverage have been thoroughly assessed in the preparation process by the Government. The Committee stresses the importance of having a comprehensive set of rules on terrorist offences in relation to the objective of regulation, namely the fight against crime which seriously endangers people's lives, health and safety. The Legal Committee considers the objectives of the proposal to be justified and appropriate. On the basis of the report it has received, the committee considers that there is a strong social need and an acceptable basis for the proposed regulation. The committee considers that the proposal is necessary and appropriate and supports the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the proposal without amendment. In its opinion on the proposal, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that its earlier interpretation of terrorist offences is consistent with the minimum standards of criminal law. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that it would be appropriate to clarify the application of the regulation in such a way that it would be more appropriate than what has now been proposed to reflect at least the most important tasks of the group in terms of criminal activity. According to the explanatory statement of the proposal, the tasks referred to in the present provision cannot be listed exhaustively, which is influenced by the fact that such activities may change as time passes. In addition, the explanatory memorandum of the proposal considers that the tasks referred to in the paragraph are to be restricted in an acceptable manner in the explanatory statement of the paragraph. The explanatory statement of the Government’s proposal sets out examples of the type of activity that constitutes a crime under the article and also highlights examples of situations that cannot be regarded as an essential task. The explanatory statement also highlights the limits that international humanitarian law imposes on the application of penalties for terrorist offences. In its report, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has carried out a very thorough assessment of the scope of the sentence in the explanatory memorandum on mere residence in a terrorist group, domestic family duties or the care of children, with regard to the essential task of participating in a terrorist group. According to the grounds of the motion, this activity is a matter of personal and other ordinary impunity, which must be distinguished from the tasks essential to the criminal activity of the terrorist group and its multiple members, which may be considered to constitute the provision of the capacity of a member of the terrorist group. The Committee on Legal Affairs considers compliance with the principle of criminal law to be essential in the preparation of penal provisions. After assessing the Government’s proposal and the report received, the Legal Committee considers that the proposed involvement in the activities of a terrorist group in criminal law meets the minimum regulatory precision and precision requirements. The committee considers that there is no significant added value for the application of the provision or the principle of legality by including examples in the provision. In addition, there are important questions of border-titling as to what methods of action are mentioned in the explanatory memorandum and how, as described, to be included in the provision. In the light of the above, the committee considers the proposed provision to be justified and advocates its adoption unchanged. A new terrorist offence would be punishable by a public call for or induce entry into a terrorist group or committing a terrorist offence, such as to induce or induce recruitment or terrorist offences. There would be no risk of committing a crime or of committing a criminal offence or of committing a criminal offence. The financing and travel of public invitations to commit terrorist offences to another country for the purpose of making such a public call would be punishable as financing and travelling for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence. In its opinion on the proposal, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that the situation resulting from the proposal, in which a very similar type of call may become punishable on the basis of two different provisions, depending on whether the terrorist intention is linked to the call for proposals or to the act to be called upon, and whether the call for action poses a concrete or abstract risk of crime, is rather difficult to understand in terms of the principle of criminal law and the related requirement of precision and precision. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that regulation should be clarified and clarified. However, the committee stressed that, from the point of view of the requirement of proportionality, the content of the public call for penalties is particularly reprehensible and, by means of criminal law, it is also important for the protection of fundamental human rights. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the proposed provision is not problematic in terms of the requirement of acceptability and proportionality. In particular, the Committee on Legal Affairs has assessed this matter from the point of view of the potential need for clarification and clarification of regulation on the basis of the views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, it is sufficiently clear from the statement of reasons in the government's proposal that the criminality of public calls for the commission of terrorist offences will be determined only by the new article proposed today, namely the specific provisions. However, the Committee on Legal Affairs considers that, in the context of the overall evaluation of the regulation on terrorist offences, it is also appropriate to assess the effectiveness and clarity of the regulation on criminal offences. In its report, the Committee on Legal Affairs has already drawn attention to the need for an overall review of the regulation of terrorist offences in previous legislative initiatives. The Committee on Legal Affairs considers it important that the future overall assessment evaluates the functioning of legislation, the development of phenomena and the development of legislation and practical developments in key control countries, including with regard to the potential criminal activity of family members. A bill and a measure initiative have also been discussed in connection with the Government's proposal. Since the Committee on Legal Affairs is in favour of penalising the participation of a terrorist group on the basis of a government proposal, the Committee proposes that these initiatives be rejected. The bill also includes a proposal to amend the Citizenship Act so as to reduce the length of the sentence of the sentenced person who is the cause of the loss of citizenship. However, although the Committee on Legal Affairs proposes to reject the bill, the Committee considers it very important that the practice of applying the citizenship law is also monitored and evaluated and, if necessary, legislative action is taken if it proves appropriate. The committee's draft decision is that Parliament approves the legislative proposals of the government proposal without amendment and rejects the legislative proposals contained in the bill as well as the initiative for measures. The report is not unanimous and contains a draft amendment and statements. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u263	Congressman Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u264	Mr President! Criminal liability does not take place in terrorist offences in Finland. Only one person has been convicted of terrorism in Finland, the terrorist of the Turku knife attack. In other Nordic countries and European countries, several convictions have also been passed on to women who have returned from al-Hol camp. There have been only four terrorist trials in Finland over the last two decades. The charges have been dropped, especially as a result of lack of evidence. There's not even a pre-trial investigation going on. In public, the protection police have expressed concern that pre-trial investigations in terrorist offences will not be launched even if there are grounds. In the case of suspected terrorist offences abroad, it is the state prosecutor who decides to initiate the preliminary investigation rather than the police. It seems that for some reason, apart from the gaps in the criminal code, terrorist offences actually have a high threshold for conviction, a threshold for prosecution and a threshold for pre-trial investigation. This is untenable. According to information provided by Supo, more than 80 identified persons have left Finland in conflict areas in Syria and Iraq, of which about 20 have been estimated to have returned to Finland. There's probably been more people leaving. Many of them have probably served the Isis terrorist organization. So they have, of their own free will, gone out to serve the world’s most barbaric terrorist organization, which brutally wants to destroy the infidels. They have turned their backs on Finnish society and our values. They have gone to fight against the dignity, freedom, integrity, security and democracy of others. Mr President! It is up to the legislator to ensure that at least there is no loophole in terrorist activity. Until now, Finland has met the minimum standards of international and European obligations in criminal cases, not more comprehensive criminalisations such as other European countries. That is why, in late 2019, with Mr Kauma, I took the initiative to criminalise the involvement of the terrorist group and to reduce the minimum length of the terrorist sentence leading to the abolition of the citizenship of the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u269	Congressman Kaleva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u270	Mr President! In its history, Finland has had an unfortunate naive attitude towards international terrorism, just as Mrs Vestman has just said with credit. We have had an unlikely chance of being held accountable for our actions and, if so, our sentences have been mild in international comparisons. They have been particularly mild because, as a rule, the first-timer does not sit more than half of his prison sentence. A first-timer can be more than once. We've been unprepared. Unprepared, we have followed the world’s course and received a taste of it ourselves. Finland has been on Western European standards as a major country relative to the number of our Muslim minority, for example as a recruitment and support area for jihadist terrorist organisations. For some reason, it was a relatively significant number of people leaving Finland. Issi's lineup. This draft law is taking our legislation on terrorism in the right direction, but unfortunately it is inadequate in many respects. Our criminal code is an act-centred one: when you do this, the penalty is this. But how does an artificial approach to terrorism work? Of course, the immediate victims of the terrorist attack are those targeted by violent acts. However, terrorism always has other objectives and targets. Its purpose is to break citizens' sense of security and trust. The terrorist wants to spread terror and fear to the entire population. Terrorist attacks are serious attacks on our society, our way of life and our values. It is not just the often random people who are hit by bullets, cars, bombs, or stab wounds. It's about all of us. Every one of us is a victim of terrorism. Terrorism is an act even when the actual attack is over. In the area of terrorism, not only the direct execution of the attack but also the promotion of terrorism and the involvement of terrorist organisations must be seen as a criminal act. For example: Those who joined the ISIS ranks have usually not known what concrete, individual action they have taken when they left. With certainty, though, they have known what kind of activity they are going into. In fact, the Isis caliphate did not attempt in its own propaganda to minimize its extremely violent cruelty. On the contrary, they were proud. No loophole of the size of al-Holi jihadist women is required for terrorism legislation. Mr President! We must take a different view of the nature of terrorist activity. We have to criminalize the fact that someone travels to join a terrorist organization. We must criminalise all forms of support and access to terrorism.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u273	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u274	Madam President! The penal provisions on terrorist offences should now be amended and supplemented by this government proposal, which we are now dealing with. According to the government's proposal, the scope of the provisions relating to terrorist groups would be significantly broadened by changing the criminal title of the promotion of terrorist group activities to participation in terrorist group activities and the fact that a person carries out an essential role for terrorist group criminal activities would generally become a criminal offence. A new terrorist offence would be punishable by a public call for terrorist offences, and funding and travelling to another country for such a public call would be punishable as financing and travelling for terrorist offences. According to the True Finns, the changes presented are necessary in responding to many of the problems identified in the regulation of terrorist offences. The proposed extensions are essential to ensure that people actively supporting terrorist groups can be held accountable for their activities in criminal law. However, we Finns are concerned that there will be gaps in the proposed regulation. Mr President! According to the arguments put forward by the government, the essential task of the terrorist group’s terrorist criminal activities would be to carry out all the tasks relevant to the objectives of the terrorist group, which in concrete terms contribute to or assist in the commission of the offences that the terrorist group aims to commit or is already planning, or otherwise have a positive impact on the criminal potential and target setting of the terrorist group, thereby contributing to the dangerousness of the terrorist group’s activities. In other words, to carry out this task would require active action to promote the terrorist criminal objective of the terrorist group. Therefore, it would not be sufficient for a person to be passively involved in a terrorist group or to be entrusted with a task under which he does not actually take action. Nor could it be regarded as an essential task, for example, simply to stay in premises controlled by a terrorist group or in an area dominated by a terrorist group, or to carry out normal household duties in the service of one’s own family, or to take care of children or other’s children. The preparation of the legislative changes proposed in the Government's proposal is based on the Government's approach in December 2019 to the repatriation of Finns from the Al-Holi camp on the review of terrorist offences legislation and on the adoption of necessary legislative changes. Mr President! This is so important that I will continue to speak again when the time is running out. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u275	The time was not yet running out, because there would have been seven minutes, but you can always take another floor. — — — — And now for the representative Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u276	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr Meri, presented the motion before us, and I would refer to the excellent speeches made by Mr Vestman, Mr Kaleva and Mr Tynkkynen. A little recollection of the past, as I sometimes do. I was a member of the Legal Committee exactly 20 years ago. That was the autumn of the known New York terrorist attack, and at that time, after that attack, the then President of the Republic, Halonen, invited the Legal Committee to visit Castle. The theme of its visit was terrorism and the fight against terrorism. After that terrorist attack, George W. Bush declared that ‘we are on our side or on the terrorist side’. He challenged the whole world, all the countries, to the fight against terrorism with this threat, as it were, that if you are not on our side, then you are on the side of the terrorists. This brought the whole world to the point where it had come to be. I recall that President Halonen said about his long political career and otherwise that before 2001 the UN had been looking for a definition for 50 years, tried to agree on how to define terrorism, and it had not been successful. After the attacks in New York, that statement by President Bush immediately found a definition and all countries — well, now perhaps not all but nearly — put terrorism into their criminal law. We had a problem there when our longest punishment was inadequate in relation to that category of crime and had to make such a systematic exception to the criminal code as regards the maximum penalty. However, it was done in that situation, and apparently it is still in force, and now we are in this situation to consider how to improve this issue. Terrorism has come to this earth in recent decades with great strength, and there is no reason to bow down to it but to take it very seriously. There is a threat all the time, and that is why it is important that we also develop legislation in order to be able to respond to it in our country. Of course, it must be acknowledged to the government that even a small step in the right direction is now being taken, but, as we have heard from well-informed representatives here, this step is modest and inadequate, and I therefore appeal to the whole group of members of the Assembly, but also to all the others who bear responsibility for security — those who are concerned for the security of the people and the country and for the safety of humanity — to play an active part in promoting the free world of terrorism and the reforms needed to combat its terrible consequences. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u277	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u278	Mr President! Now that I have presented in the previous speech the committee's common and majority view of what has been laid down, I will now bring up the Group of the Finnish People's Party and my own view of this legislative project. It is good that changes have come and are partly in line with the needs, but like the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I am disappointed that there will be gaps. It must be noted that this is an exceptionally serious crime. Indeed, this proposal includes the fact that criminal and terrorist activities must fulfil the essential task of carrying out an essential task and requires active action to promote the objectives of the terrorist group. It cannot be regarded as an essential task and therefore not as a punishable task to stay in a terrorist group-controlled facility or in a terrorist area and to care for its family, be in domestic duties or take care of their own or the children of others — otherwise it can be found in a government proposal. So you can be a little bit like a Community nanny, and I find that very strange, because the activities actually have a positive impact on the criminal potential of a terrorist group in that case, if a woman takes care of everyone's children and others, so to speak, working as a terrorist, which is why such tasks should be subject to criminal sanctions. As has been mentioned here in several speeches, it is a case of such reprehensible action. The so-called Isis wives who return to Finland cannot be judged on a mere basis if they are able to show that they have only made food there, unless it can be shown otherwise that they have been active in the pursuit of the criminal objective, and these evidence difficulties will come from it, for those other terrorists will not be able to prove that the Isis wife there was doing other tasks than children. An example is the situation in Norway where a person has been considered to have been involved in terrorist activities solely in caring for children and doing food and washing, and the sentence was three and a half years in prison. According to my memory, this decision is not valid, but in any case, I saw it in Norway. Nothing would prevent us in Finland from making progressive legislation, which the other Nordic countries could then refer to as we do in Finland. I think the idea was to genuinely tackle this problem and punish it. It is now good to note that this whole activity is based on criminal terrorist objectives. So it is not just a camp for scouts, which just happens to involve a criminal wing, but everyone involved in it knows what is going on. As I said earlier, the parent caring for the children will contribute to that activity in his own way and with certainty share the entire terrorist objective. No one is lost there by mistake, and if he is, he will certainly get out of there and not be punished. I suspect that someone is accidentally going to the wrong plane and then gets lost and spends years there. That is why we tabled this amendment. Similarly, we made proposals to protest first of all against the fact that citizenship can be lost if you commit a crime of treason, treason or terrorism, and no matter how long that act is. — Mr Vestman, you put forward two years in your bill, and that was a good start, but other things came up during the hearing with the protection police. — The protection police considered that there should be no time at all, since there is already such a serious crime as the underlying crime,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u281	Congressman Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u282	Mr President! Thank you to the honourable Members for your excellent contributions. I would like to raise a few more points in this debate. Firstly, the question of this display and the difficulty in obtaining it. In September, the media had an interview with the Crime Inspector of the Krp, in which he described this task as very challenging: ‘In the regions controlled by the fathers,there was no effective administration in Furthermore, no information was received from intelligence services or the military.’ This is a direct quote that goes on to say: ‘The data collectionis based on these personal reports and, after hearing in doubt,they can self-assess what they want to do about the reportingor.’ In other words, this issue of evidence is absolutely essential to the investigation of terrorist activity and then to the prosecution and conviction. In this same interview, the Krp criminal inspector pointed out that in some countries it is enough for a person to just stay in an area controlled by a terrorist organisation and accept its state of affairs. And on this basis, it can then be regarded as belonging to a terrorist organisation. In this regard, the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has stated that, according to a report received by the committee, the reference countries do not impose criminal penalties solely for the presence of a person in an area governed by an organisation or group. This is exactly what I was left to say on the basis of this interview with the Crime Inspector of the Krp. What analogue countries have been used when, according to the Krp, this type of regulation is found precisely in other countries where there is no evidence problem in a similar way? As a second point, I would like to point out the third paragraph of this statement, which is therefore part of the government's obligation to bring before Parliament, without delay, a proposal to amend the Aliens Act so that a permanent residence permit can be withdrawn and an entry ban imposed during a stay abroad. This is an excellent proposal and this same proposal was found in the operational programme of the Sipilä Government in early 2019. Unfortunately, the Marin government has not moved this important issue forward. This amendment to the foreign law is apparently also supported by the protection police, as the chairman of the law committee pointed out there.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u283	Then Mr Tynkkynen, and I will be kind enough to say that seven minutes can be spoken from this podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u284	Thank you, Madam President. When President Rinne has sometimes reduced these seven-minute speeches to five minutes, I thought that I would not cut off the speech in the middle of the day, but I would finish, but when I noticed that you had changed there just a few minutes ago, I would now have the courage to say seven minutes, if that is the case. I shall now continue with my unfinished speech. Mr President! In our opinion, it is quite clear that caring for domestic tasks and children, for example, actually has a positive effect on the criminal potential of a terrorist group, which should therefore be subject to criminal sanctions. Otherwise, so-called Isis wives returning to Finland cannot continue to be condemned for acts committed for the benefit of terrorists unless they can be shown to have acted actively in other ways to promote the terrorist and criminal objectives of the terrorist group. In Norway, for example, a person has been considered involved in terrorist activities while caring for children, cooking and washing. Sentenced sentence was 3.5 years in prison. It is not possible for an Isis fighter to leave his home to fight if his job is to take care of the children, wash the laundry, make food and so on. The Isis wife makes this possible. We Finns do not consider it appropriate to have a law in which only active participation in the criminal activities of a terrorist group or organisation is punishable and where passive membership of an organisation is not sufficient to give rise to criminal liability. Although terrorist organisations do not necessarily keep registers or lists of persons belonging to it or issue documents indicating that they are part of the organisation, a person’s commitment to the terrorist group is, however, in principle to the circumstances that can be determined. In Germany, for example, the court considered a woman to have joined Isis when she travelled with four children to Syria in August 2015. Her husband was a leading member of Isis, who was involved in the arms trade. Terrorism is a dangerous phenomenon for society, which is why it is important for Finns to take care of the adequacy of punishments. Our legislation on terrorism must not be more loose than that of other countries. Finland must not become a safe haven for terrorists. The offences of terrorism are on the property of the Legal Committee and we discussed a bill that proposes to amend the citizenship law so that citizenship could be lost on grounds of treason, treason or terrorist offences if a person has been sentenced to imprisonment or a combined sentence of at least two years. At the moment, Finland is required to commit a crime which has been punishable by the most severe punishment of at least 8 years in prison and for which a person has received an unconditional sentence of at least 5 years in prison. As Finns, we supported this proposal, but we would go further. We believe that the condition of the length of the sentence should be removed from the law altogether. All terrorists must be deprived of Finnish citizenship. The crimes on which citizenship is abolished are crimes which are always seriously committed against the vital interests of the state, and therefore they should be punishable by the abolition of Finnish citizenship, regardless of the length of time the offence has actually been convicted. In line with the need of the protection police, we also want the law on foreigners to be amended so that the permanent residence permit of an immigrant can be withdrawn and an entry ban imposed during a stay abroad. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Antero Laukkanen and Mr Kinnus, who were in the same line with us. It is a pity that the parliamentary group in the Coalition Party broke up and Mr Marko Kilpi did not agree to the tightening that we had proposed in order to actually convict more and more terrorists. Even if the government is not prepared to go further in terms of tightening up the legislation on terrorism, it would be hoped that the coalition would finally begin to wake up in its entirety to this serious situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u285	Congressman Kaleva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u286	Thank you, Mr President. When it comes to these al-Hol, Isis mothers, Isis wives, Isis brides, as has now been said in the media, then, as it were, this feminine “wife”, “mother”, “mother” is used as euphemism. It's the jihadists. This is clearly the case that these who went into the ranks of ISIS are women, men, fathers, mothers, boys, girls, whoever they are, jihadists. Today, here in Parliament, we have had Nadia Murad, a Nobel Prize-winning young woman with a siesta background who has been the victim of very terrible acts by Isis. He has been sold as a sex slave to many men, but not only to these men, but also to these households, and there he has been enslaved by these Isis women — the Isis jihadists. This kind of language, if it seeks to obscure the real purpose... — I am not saying that all these Finnish al-Hol women who are now there have kept slaves, but they must have known what kind of terrible organization they are going to go to when they travel to Syria or Iraq. There could not have been the slightest doubt about it, because Isis, as I said just now, did not in any way try to hide its true nature. On the contrary, they made that very clear. This is why when we talk about these jihadists here or in the media in general, we talk about them as jihadists. Of course, this legislation cannot interfere with these Isis returnees in Al-Hol and already applied for from there to Finland, because this is not, of course, retroactive legislation. But it is important to ensure that, in the future, when such situations occur — hopefully they will not, but I fear bad — we will have effective legislation. If it were up to me, each Isis returner would be replaced by ten Sisidinas and children. Unfortunately, I can't decide that here, but it's important to talk about them with the right names: they're jihadists, not Isis brides, mothers, and so on. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u287	Congressman Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u288	Madam President! This debate on who belongs to a terrorist organisation is indeed a key issue for us and an important issue, and I hope that we will have the government, the Ministry of Justice and then the Committee on Legal Affairs to find very clear lines for this in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u291	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u292	Thank you, Mr President. That is where Mr Vestman asked about this committee's report and this international comparison. This is based on the explanations and conclusions given to us by the Ministry of Justice. Here I myself read the Ministry's report, for example, and I think this is on page 10. After a comparison of the German case law, the Ministry has told us that although the penal code also mentions membership as an act, the Ministry says that it has then required some kind of activity. But these are, of course, the views given to the committee by the ministry through this working group, so if there is anything to be clarified, it is very interesting. Of course, when we do not know all these languages, we ourselves have not been able to study the law book, and when we do not understand the legal system in which it is interpreted. But interesting information. As I said earlier in my own speech, it would be fine for me and the people of Peru to be an example country now. Why can we not be the most ambitious in the world, as we are, for example, in this climate-distortion process? In other words, we would be the most ambitious in the world, and other countries could appeal to Finland's good legislation on terrorism and say that, as is the case in Finland, so can we now, and Finland is the rule of law. But I do not know why we never dare to be the first on this type of issue, where, however, there is talk of serious crime and action in which, as we have talked about here, everything is about attacking others, spreading dangerous ideology and causing as much personal injury as possible to other people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u293	Congressman Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u294	Mr President! I will return to the question as to why even pre-trial investigations on terrorist offences have not been initiated in Finland, even though there are apparently grounds for this: I refer here to the article published two years ago by the Helsingin Sanomat, in which the protection police and the prosecutor had been interviewed on this issue. On the basis of this article: ‘The Safety Authority interviewed by a greater number ofHS will test that the national prosecutor’s officerequires a sure On the other hand,the national prosecutor has presentedthe According to Toiviainen, the investigation cannot be initiated by law.’ In other words, the security authorities and the prosecutor seem to have different views on why pre-trial examinations are not started on terrorist offences, even if there are apparently grounds. And whatever the reason, here is a point that should definitely be resolved. I think it is extremely important for the government to clarify this issue and to ensure, for example, that, as regards the exchange of information, security authorities have the necessary powers to make progress in this type of serious crime affecting society as a whole, so as to ensure that criminal liability is carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u295	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u296	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, I mentioned earlier that I thank certain representatives for the support we received as representatives of the People’s Republic of Finland on this objection. Indeed, I would like to thank Antero Laukka and Jari Kinnus for the assembly as well. It is very regrettable that the group was divided, but I did not mean that you had no part in this when I saw your reaction. Your bill, Mr Vestman, was on the table there, and I think it was an excellent bill. In many cases, when these legislative initiatives are taken, it may be that we are perhaps starting from the middle road, that we want as large a group as possible to sign them up, and every single tightening, which is needed, for example, in relation to terrorism law. Now it is as if we are going further in our own wish, which your representative, Mr Kinnunen, also agreed with and heard in an interlude, that you too believe that we will go further if people are prepared to go even further. And here too the shout-out shall be given to some of the delegates of the assembly. I know that when this comes to the debate, I am almost certain that we will be able to count on these so-called traditional members of the assembly, such as you, Mrs Vestman, Mr Rydman, Mr Kinnunen, my colleague from Oulu, Mr Heikkinen, and so on and so on, to be sure that they will be in favour of a rigorous forecast of this legislation on terrorism, which we in the Committee on Legal Affairs put forward, but be prepared for the fact that, unfortunately, your group may be divided badly and that these so-called Liberals will not even support you, your own initiative. When it came to committee, we were the ones who made the entries there, it was written by us, and at the very last minute, at the very last minute, we also received your support. So this is what this is between there unfortunately is, but I recommend to have these discussions within your parliamentary group. I think you could get a lot bigger support than that. It may be that it is sometimes the case that, to the very end, the representatives are perhaps not familiar with why these issues are so important, and I believe that this support could be obtained from more members of the coalition. But thank you for an excellent legislative initiative in this regard. Well, Mr President, as far as this legislation on terrorism is concerned in general, it is very regrettable that we are in this situation in Finland, that we in the Finnish Parliament have to reflect on such issues, that is, the phenomena that have come from outside Finland, and then we spend days here in committees, ministries and then here on Parliament's side, on the valuable working time, on how we are now dealing with the people who have left Finland to fight in the name of Islam in another country, on their return, on their condemnation and on the proof that they have certainly committed these crimes. This is absolutely shocking. When it is said that multiculturalism and immigration, for example, have no effect at all and it is only wonderful, there will be common food and games moments and so on and so on, there will once again be one such day in the history of the Finnish Parliament, when we can once again say that yes, it will have negative effects. These people who come from that Middle East, who refuse to integrate into Finnish society but start to form these shadow societies, no matter how much money we spend on integration, are the people from whom CNN has just reported that, relative to Finland, most of these jihadists, these fighters, there in the Middle East, there in the Isis Caliphat — from Finland. They were just these people who had come here, plus a close circle under their influence, some of which might have been native Finns in some way. They brought this phenomenon here. In other words, immigration unfortunately has such effects, and I hope that the next time these discussions on immigration and we, as fundamental Finns, are being blamed for this: ‘Why are you talking about this topic? We simply have to raise these issues, because we, as a Finnish society, have to bear the consequences when we take people here from such cultures. It is clear that all people, although coming from the Middle East, are of course not in any way those who would be guilty of this kind of activity, of course it is a fraction, but then when we talk about the financial costs, we see even on the Kela side that there is a burden that is already bigger. We are all different people, but these are real phenomena that we have to face after we decide to take people. This part-session had an earlier debate on this additional budget, in which, for example, the number of quota refugees was increased — it was 450 — and once again we cannot know whether people who would be able to do so will also be able to do so at a later stage. That is why, in the previous speeches, we also talked about the fact that it would be better to help people there in crisis areas and not here very much. The general idea here is that we are going to have to deal with these terrorism issues in Finland, which is quite incomprehensible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u297	Congressman Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u298	Mr President! I have personally understood the parliamentary role of the opposition to challenge the government and not other opposition parties, at least as a matter of priority, but I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Tynkkys and other representatives of the People's Republic of Finland in the Committee on Legal Affairs for supporting this bill that I have taken to the effect that the involvement of the terrorist group would be criminalised in a very comprehensive manner. Indeed, the example of our legislative initiative has been the Norwegian provision, which, as you pointed out, is precisely the result and basis of which a convicted terrorist offence has been committed by a person who has treated children, made food and washed laundry, because this action has in fact had a positive effect on the criminal activities of the terrorist group. In that sense, your objection corresponds in practice to this bill that I have taken, and I thank you for that. I would also like to thank you for your objection to support the proposal made by the Sipilä Government in the operational programme at the beginning of 2019 that the foreign law should be amended in such a way that a permanent residence permit can be withdrawn and an entry ban imposed during a stay abroad. This was indeed in the operational programme of the Sipilä Government, which was prepared under the leadership and action of Mr Mykkänen, Minister of Interior of the United States, and it is regrettable that this left-wing government has not brought forward this important amendment to the foreign law, which, as I said earlier, has also been desired by the protection police.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u299	Mr. Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u300	Thank you, Madam President. We do now have different ideas about what parliamentarianism is. After all, parliamentaryism does not limit who can be viewed critically. It is true that this criticism is often directed specifically at the government, it is counter-productive, but it is also part of parliamentaryism that in some countries, such as Russia, there is a so-called pseudo-opposition. It makes it appear that there is a real rule of law, which then opposes the government, although in other words, many times the situation is that the opposition itself supports the government. And if there is a situation in Finland too, we see that the opposition parties, for example, are very heavily stumbled by the red-green government, as has now been the case in the committee for the vote — we did not receive the kind of support we have received in the debate — it is very logical that we should also highlight these shortcomings. And it is very regrettable that very often, in fact, we find ourselves alone here – not always, for example, in the debate on the EU recovery package, it was that we received support from you, that we were not alone, but, once again, the second part went on to compromise the government, and so you and the government are pursuing a common line and it is very logical in Parliament that we should be critical of that too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u301	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 15/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — General discussion, representative Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u302	Mr President! The Government's proposal to Parliament regarding the reception and preparedness of applicants for international protection is very practical. However, answering these practical questions of responsibility does not respond to the assumption and the necessary and expected preparation, which the Committee on Administrative Affairs thought we would have had it dealt with this autumn. Indeed, in this bill it is a question of amending Article 12 of the Act on the reception of applicants for international protection and the identification and assistance of victims of trafficking in human beings. In practice, the proposal transfers responsibility for planning large-scale preparedness from ely to the Finnish Immigration Service (Maahanmuuttovirasto), Migri. As such, this government proposal clarifies the coordination and planning of national and regional preparedness, but it does not respond at all to the lack of preparedness in this area. The explanatory statement of the Government's proposal clearly states that the Government has not considered the regulatory needs for large-scale entry, but has only made a technical clarification. If the government had taken action from the perspective of large-scale preparedness for entry, it would have brought a larger package to be decided by Parliament, and this government proposal would have been part of it. Mr President! Extensive entry was identified in the national risk assessment 2018 as one of the significantly higher national risks. This national risk assessment was completed in 2019 and since then we have all been aware of this contingency deficit. That is why the Group of the Committee on the Administration of the Coalition Party and also the Group of the Management Committee of the People's Republic of Finland considered the proposal as a serious shortcoming that the government has not looked beyond the regulatory needs for large-scale preparation for entry, but has contented itself with this clarification of the current regulation. Indeed, according to the government's proposal, there has been no preparation for a large-scale influx, and therefore we are still waiting for legislative proposals from the point of view of internal security, border security or hybrid state influence. In the past, the Administrative Committee has also addressed regulatory needs in relation to Finland's preparedness for hybrid operations, where the state uses large-scale migration flows as a means of exerting pressure from another country. We, as a group of members of the Assembly, stated that, on the basis of the consultations in the Administrative Committee, we could not be convinced that our powers, i.e. the powers of the Finnish authorities and the security authorities, are sufficient to prepare and combat this large-scale entry. We therefore stated that, in connection with this government proposal, we will object together with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u303	Congressman Kaleva is gone. — Mr Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u304	Mr President! As Mrs Talvitie pointed out in the previous speech, this government proposal, which in itself is worthy of support and importance, highlights the fact that the government has not prepared a large-scale package of entry, and therefore does not have a broader discussion of large-scale entry from the point of view of internal security, border security or national hybridisation or from the point of view of the preparedness law. Tomorrow there will be an interim debate on the same theme — an extremely important debate from the point of view of national security. In public discussions on this subject, there has been a peculiar feature of the fact that this debate should not take place on the part of government ministers, as this is a question of national security and preparedness. After all, Finnish laws and their preliminary work are now completely public. On the Internet, you can find out what powers, such as the Emergency Act or the Border Guard Act, are given to the authorities. These are not state secrets. As has been pointed out in this protest from opposition representatives, in the objections to the report of the Administrative Committee, the consultations of the Administrative Committee have not convinced us that the powers of the Finnish authorities are sufficient to provide for and combat large-scale entry and such hybridisation, which has now been seen on the Polish-Belarus border. In addition to carefully reviewing the preparedness law in Finland, as the President of the Republic and the Head of the Border Guard have also wanted in public, these powers of normal conditions should be considered. Finland still has no legislative tools such as the border procedure at the EU's external border, which is made possible by EU law. This is what Sipilä's government, under the leadership of the Minister of Interior of the United States, Mr Mykkänen, said in early 2019 that the border procedure would be governed by Finnish law — the procedure that the EU's Asylum Procedures Directive would allow. This is the kind of screening procedure that is able to allow people to cross the border to see which of these applications are in the way that they can already be rejected in that border area in practice. Unfortunately, the Marin government has not taken this important opportunity forward. It has also been discussed here with the Minister of the Interior in the past, and I am surprised and I hope that at some point I will receive an answer as to why not even these tools, which have been made possible by EU law and international law, have been brought into Finnish law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u305	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u306	Madam President! We see every day how Belarus, its government, exploits the migrants it attracts to its country in an unscrupulous manner to drive these immigrants to the border with Belarus and Poland or to the border between Belarus and Belarus. To put pressure on these neighbours and create discord within the European Union and also within the Member States of the European Union, on the border with Lithuania. Of all The motives of Belarus are difficult to come across, but I think it is clear that the intention is to exploit immigrants as a form of hybrid influence, thus making a policy against the neighbouring countries. Well, this situation has, of course, led to a debate in Finland about what Finland would be prepared to do if a similar situation arose at our border. For example, could we temporarily suspend the processing of asylum applications, i.e. close our borders in practice, if immigrants or, in any case, people were used against us in the same way as a means of exerting pressure against Finland? What is our readiness? What is the state of our legislation in this regard, and what is our other capacity? On this issue, and above all on the state of our legislation, ministers have managed to make statements that even the same minister's statements are contradictory, so of course these statements are also cross with those of other ministers on this same issue. That is what we will discuss more tomorrow in the debate on the mid-term issue. In any case, this report by the Committee on Administrative Affairs is a government proposal relating to large-scale preparedness for entry, but is not so much, or actually at all, related to this hybrid effect. It is a pity that there was no consensus in the Administrative Committee on the position of a statement which would have speeded up the updating of Finnish legislation, both in the light of exceptional circumstances and under normal circumstances, in relation to such large-scale immigration and its management. There will be more on this tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u307	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 33/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Statement by Mr Grahn-Laasonen, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u308	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, the corona period will be prolonged. I present the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on 33/2021, which deals with the continuation of cost support for businesses. A new form of aid would be added to the Act on fixed-term cost support for enterprises, which would be targeted in particular at tourism, restaurant and event companies, in line with the list of sectors of activity to be included in the Act. Undertakings in other sectors whose clientele has been subject to a public-law restriction related to the management of the corona pandemic would also be eligible for aid. The aim of the Act is to support the continuity of the activities of the sectors and businesses affected by the pandemic and restrictions in a difficult situation and to reduce the number of bankrupt companies by providing them with additional time to adapt to the pandemic. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy supports the adoption of the proposed regulation without any change but with an extension of the law. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has dealt with various types of support instruments on several occasions as a result of the corona pandemic. Even in previous reports, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has considered it important, under normal conditions, for the functioning of the market that legislative action should be as limited as possible from the point of view of fair conditions of competition for companies. However, since the business activity has been treated by the Koronapandem with huge differences, it is justified that subsidies financed by public funds also vary according to the disruption of the business. The aid scheme must target as closely and fairly as possible the financial damage caused by the corona epidemic and the prevention of long-term damage. This needs to be assessed both internally and from the point of view of equal treatment between sectors. The expert feedback received by the committee on the current government proposal has been divided. Some experts have considered that the proposed aid is insufficient, while others have considered that the aid appears pro-cyclical and that it is counterproductive. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has pointed out in the past that, in assessing the legitimacy of the cost support system, it is essential that it is intended to provide rapid and temporary liquidity support in a situation where, without their own reasons, the conditions under which businesses operate are severely and unexpectedly weakened and that the normal conditions of operation have temporarily become unprofitable. In such a situation, forms of aid which would not be justified or permitted under normal circumstances may also be acceptable. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also took a proactive position on the issue of interest rate measures. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy points out that, as the epidemic continues, it is important to focus more and more attention on how to make business as safe as possible through different means. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers it clear that the single most important factor in controlling the epidemic is the high level of vaccination coverage. At this stage of the epidemic — and especially since it has become apparent that the virus is still circulating in society for a long time — it is important to introduce the widest possible range of means. Some comparative information has already been obtained on the so-called corona passport arrangements in place around the world. In view of the above, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers it important that, in addition to other means, there is also some kind of corona passport regime in Finland. The question is whether, to some extent, economic activity will be made possible, on the one hand, during the period of total closures or severe restrictions, but also in the longer term, during the peaceful stages of the epidemic. In the latter case, the use of the passport would not necessarily be directly linked to the validity of the restrictions but would serve as a proactive tool for health safety. Briefly concerning the entry into force of the draft law: The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposes, in the light of the general arguments put forward, that the law on fixed-term company cost support should be in force until the end of June 2022. The Commission communication of 18 November 2021 — that is to say, during our hearings and committee readings — enabled this to happen. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers it appropriate to make use of this opportunity. The proposal for a decision of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is that Parliament, as amended, adopt the bill contained in the Government proposal 207/2021. The report contains one objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u309	Congressman Talvitie. — At this point, before Mrs Talvitie starts, I would like to kindly inform the representatives of Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Vestman that you happen to sit at a point here in the Chamber where your debate wants to belong here to the podium — a hint of this kind.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u310	Thank you, Mr President. Perhaps Mr President, in some polite manner, is also trying to tell us that Mr Vestman and Mr Zyskowicz are sitting where it may also belong to the people who are following this plenary session. I'm just remembering that that back row is that part. Indeed, at this reading, we have a government proposal for a law on the amendment of the law on fixed-term company cost support. These legal changes and appropriate subsidies have become familiar in the last less than two years. After the summer, it was hoped that these similar forms of support would not have to be extended for next year, but it is only so now, especially now, that the capital region has been given a broader recommendation on teleworking and a recommendation on masking that we should live with the corona. It is good that support for tourism, restaurant and event companies in particular will continue to be provided, and in that sense I consider it necessary for this extension of the Committee on Economic Affairs to be in force until the end of June. It is good that the parliamentary committee is also able to react to the issues raised during the hearings, which will then also make this possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u311	The 16th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. The basis for this debate is the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 30/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — General discussion, Mr Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u312	Madam President! I thought to say a few words about this report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the amendments to the pharmaceutical law. The aim of this amendment to the pharmaceutical law is to increase the number of pharmacies and the supply of pharmacies, to promote competition and to improve the availability and accessibility of pharmacy services. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considered it important to increase the flexibility of the authorisation system for pharmacies and to facilitate the establishment of new pharmacies. The regulation of the appeal procedure will also be clarified and streamlined. The proposed change in the complaint process will speed up the establishment of pharmacies, but the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will note that long processing periods for administrative law can, however, still slow market entry down significantly. With regard to the pricing of medicinal products, it is proposed to adjust the regulation of retail prices for self-care medicinal products to allow price competition at retail prices. Thus, the pharmacy could sell the maximum price of the self-care medicine at a lower price by reducing its own sales cap. At this point, however, the committee felt that it was necessary to exclude from price competition those self-medicating medicinal products which require additional advice, which may be subject to particular risks. In this regard, the committee wanted to emphasise in particular the importance of pharmaceutical safety. Well, one of the key issues is the limited reserves of medicines in the service housing units of social services, and amendments to the law on limited reserves of medicines intended for joint use of social care units reduce the delay in treatment in unforeseen and sudden need for medication even at night and at weekends. This change will reduce unnecessary transfers of residents to health care emergency services, as a larger part of medical treatment can be carried out at the service unit on-site. In this context, the committee stressed the need to ensure adequate medical expertise in these services. A number of expert hearings suggested a delay in the application of both the price reductions and the provisions on limited stocks of medicinal products, and the committee therefore proposes that the entry into force of the law be delayed so that the entry into force would begin on 1.4.2022. The committee also requires the Government to monitor the impact of the Government's proposal on the functioning of the pharmacy network and to take them into account in the further development of legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u313	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 32/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — General discussion, Mr Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u314	Madam President! A few words on the amendment of the Military Aid Act. The purpose of the military grant is to secure the livelihood of a woman in service as a military servant or as a volunteer in military service and their relatives during the service. The aim of this proposal is to improve the incentives for the work of a person receiving military assistance during military or civil service or voluntary military service. And it is proposed that a provision be added to this law on the so-called protective component, so that the remuneration and entrepreneurial income of the employed person is taken into account in determining the amount of the subsidy which exceeds the EUR 200 protection element. The committee was very much in favour of this proposal by the government and the change in this protective part, and the aim of the proposal to improve the incentives for the work of the person receiving military assistance during the service was supported by the committee as a whole. The committee therefore proposes that, in order to improve incentives for work and the income of those who take part in the service, this proposed EUR 200 component be increased by EUR 100 to EUR 300, which is closer to the EUR 300 component for unemployment security and general housing support. However, it should be noted that despite the increase, the protection elements of the benefits do not correspond to each other due to differences in the income concepts of the benefits. It has been estimated in this presentation that some 300 people in the service would benefit from the increase in this grant. And the increase in the safeguard component proposed by the committee to EUR 300 will increase the cost of military assistance by an estimated EUR 100000, with an overall impact of the change of EUR 300000 per year. Other development needs for military assistance were also raised in the expert hearings. The legislation on military aid has been in force since 1994 and no substantial changes have been made to it. And in this regard, the Committee considers it important that the effectiveness of military assistance be examined in order to address the needs of young people currently in service.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u315	The 21st item will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, representative Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-23-ps-138.u316	Mr President! This is indeed about the establishment of Salla National Park, which we have discussed in the Committee on the Environment. It will continue the good preparatory work last season when we decided to set up Finland 100 National Park in Hossa in our region of Kainuu. Of course, national parks and their network have a major impact on the protection of biodiversity, but from the point of view of tourism, too, in attracting both domestic and international tourists to the regions. This Salla National Park is now the 41st national park in Finland. This is also important in the sense that cooperation with local actors has been quite good. The initiative is based on the initiative of the municipality of Salla to set up this park in Salla. It is also important, at the same time as we set up national parks to provide for these establishment costs, and for Salla, the government's fourth amending budget for this year came up with this one-off investment cost of EUR 4.5 million, which is then to be covered by Metsähallitus' funding and partly by transfers between budget items. In general, however, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is concerned about the adequacy of this maintenance funding, as the maintenance of new and expanded service structures with investment funding requires continuous additional funding. In order to be proud of our national park network in the future and to ensure that the longwoods, fire places, toilets, hygiene facilities and so on are in order, it is important that we be able to allocate money to the national parks in the future. That's very supportive. That's a very good performance.
