ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. To the conversation. — — — — Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen and others following the plenary session! In fact, this bill is about to celebrate its birthdays, since this was done on 18 December last year. Because of interest, these legislative initiatives have been waiting to be dealt with, but this concern and the need for change has not gone away. The main content of the initiative is that we propose that Article 53 of the Road Traffic Act: It is amended to allow the rider and the leader of a large animal to transport the animal along a light transport route. Why? Horses and riders, especially in rural areas, are a common sight on the roads. Finland has about 74,000 horses in 16,000 different stables, and horse riding and race sports are popular hobbies that attract hundreds of thousands of Finns. Although many farms have their own fields and mannaes, horse riding and horse riding is an important part of horse activity, and routes often pass partly by road. The Road Traffic Act was revised in early June 2020. In both the new and the old road traffic laws, the horse is likened to a motor vehicle, in which case the horse or horse carrying the cart must remain on the road unless the light traffic route is also specifically allowed for motor vehicles. Pursuant to Article 53(2) of the new Road Traffic Law, a rider may temporarily derogate from traffic control signs, from the obligations and regulations imposed on traffic control equipment and from the traffic rules if the specific circumstances so require and do not pose any danger or significant harm. The rider can therefore temporarily use, for example, the sidewalk and the bicycle road at his own discretion, without causing significant harm to pedestrians and cyclists. Transport Counsellor Kimmo Kiiski of the Ministry of Transport and Communications stated on Yleisradio 27.6.2020: ‘The point of departure is that pedestrians continue to walk on the sidewalk, on the bicycle road, on the horse-cotsat test and on the motor vehicle racetrack. In the absence of a riding path, the horse shall be positioned on the track or on its small edge.’ There are very few safe horse riding routes reserved for horses in Finland. Allowing horsebackmen and horsemen to use the Light Traffic Passage would improve the safety of horse enthusiasts as well as motorists and motorcyclists. Also, with well - trained horses like other animals, there is always the possibility that sudden, loud and rapid movements cause a danger. Hazard situations arising from encounters with horses and motor vehicles may be fatal for the driver, horse, horse or horse leader of the vehicle. In the context of the reform of the Road Traffic Act, the Road Association has already stated: ‘It is important to ensure transport safety that horses and horses can use cycleways where possible. In particular, the obligation to lead the horse On the basis of the above, we propose that Parliament adopt the following legislative proposal, which would therefore add a clear entry to the legislation, that the horse may continue to be on the bicycle road, which is much safer than the requirement to enter the road or to the small corner of the road. This bill has been signed by eight Members of Parliament, including Mrs Ritva Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u3	Congressman Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u4	Madam President! Mr Heinonen has taken a good initiative, and I would have liked to have signed this myself, but I am thus giving the initiative mental and oral support at this stage. As the initiative clearly states, and Mr Heinonen also pointed out in his own speech, we have very few safe horse riding routes reserved for horses in Finland. Allowing horsemen and horsemen to use the Light Traffic Passage would improve the safety of all parties involved, i.e. both horses, horse enthusiasts and motorists and motorcyclists. And the important thing is to understand that an animal is not an object. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u5	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u6	Mr President! Representative Heinonen suggests that a large animal, such as a horse, could also be transported on a light-duty bus. In his speech just now, he gave a very thorough justification for the bill. It's a very important bill. I fully agree with Mr Heinonen's explanatory statement and have also signed this good bill. I hope that it will go through and that what he proposes will come into force. Thank you, Congressman Heinonen!
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u7	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u8	Mr President! Many years ago and many years ago, Mr Heinonen was a representative of the government party and, when I was a member of the opposition, I also made a bill to the Road Traffic Act on the parking rights of home care workers and, if my memory is correct, Mr Heinonen was the first representative to speak and he supported my initiative. We have such a long history of these initiatives to amend the Road Traffic Act, and now I am pleased to support this very wise and important initiative by Mrs Heinonen. I would have signed it myself, as would Mr Pelkonen if I had noticed that such an initiative is going on here. The laws are supposed to be pragmatic, the laws are supposed to make things easier, make life easier for people, and also make life easier for animals. Now we are talking about magnificent, brave animals, which often find themselves in this current legislation in a situation where they often get scared in vain, under stress. I have seen the near-miss situations myself, I have even seen the horse freak out that not a very considerate driver of a vehicle has gone too close to a horse to be trodden, and that is when it has created quite a dangerous situation. This driver continued on his way, but the rider was in trouble with his horse. That is why it is a pleasure to support this type of legislative initiative across the opposition-governmental-party and cross-party boundaries in general. It is important to work together on such matters. Warm support for Mr Heinos.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u9	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u10	Mr President! Representative Heino has often become admired in this parliamentary work, his activity, his energy and also the punctuality of his speeches. In many situations, Mr President, I have also disagreed with him at times, and that may be allowed because we do not belong to the same party group and, in this situation, we are part of the government-opposition position. But I am pleased to be in this Chamber at the moment the fourth Member of Parliament to express his support for this initiative, which means that your activeness at this point is very rewarding. I am particularly pleased that Mr Guzenina took the floor before me and also supported this initiative from the Socialist side. This is not really the central issue of party politics, it is the substance issue itself. Several speeches have highlighted the importance of safety, road safety and road safety, and it is also important for the road transport law. Even this kind of common sense says — you don’t have to be a horse enthusiast at all, but if you follow these things closely enough at all — that the horse, of course, if you lead it, is much more natural to move along the small lanes, on the cycle paths and in such a way as to be in a reserved space than on the track or in a small place. And in this regard, all that can be done in such a way that a horse can move off the track is rewarding. That is why, on my own side, I too will only encourage the committee which will take this matter up, that it will be happy to accept this initiative unanimously, because it will take road safety forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u11	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u12	Madam President! When I listened to Mr Kiljune’s speech, I noticed that there are many of us who often disagree with Mr Heinonen, but this is something that is easy to support. Mr Heinonen has, this week, spoken very warmly about the centre in almost every session, yesterday last time, and I am happy to support this Heinonen initiative, which is now particularly targeted at many provinces, smaller municipalities, when horses are being moved and transported and safety is being ensured, so great work is being done.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u13	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u14	Madam President! I think I'll print out the minutes of this sitting on the kitchen table. Sometimes it may be needed there when I saw beautiful words from all over the hall. However, I would like to express my thanks and praise to the Federation of Horsemen and our horse enthusiasts, who have been extremely active in this regard. That concern has come from a group of amateurs, of course I myself am a horse rider and a horse enthusiast. Thank you very much for these words. It is nice to see that there are a lot of things that do not know any political boundaries, but are those of common sense that seek together a sensible solution to how we can act. As a politician, I'm used to saying hello to everyone, and I always get a little feedback when my hand is up for a greeting. With the horse, on the other hand, we have another sign that when you raise your hand, it means to the motorist to be kind and stop — otherwise not everyone will do so, as Mr Guzenina has pointed out. This is a very important instruction. It is not just a rural problem, but more and more, for example, there are large stables in Espoo, in Uusimaa, there are many little girls, young women, young boys, little boys, and it is in fact the same size as the rider on his back: at the time the natural escape animal decides to flee, each one of them will be more on board than the actual rider. I hope that this bill will go through and get a positive reading in committee. I would like to thank all those who have already taken part in this debate, and since I believe that Mr Petelius' speech is also good, I would like to thank him for that too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u15	Congressman Petelius.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u16	Mr President! Mr Heinonen, I would like to thank Mr Heinonen for my part so improvisedly for this opportunity to witness this rare consensus that exists in this Chamber for once. This, of course, shows that the matter is perceived as being shared. One dimension that Mr Heinonen has already touched on is that we should understand that when we talk about the need for youth mobility — and horse riding is known to be an important and dear hobby for young people and is widely practiced — this is a way of making it easier for young people to move. That, too, is not a small thing at all. In other words, for my part, I would like to highlight all these dimensions, which are linked here, not least in terms of the welfare and safety of horses, the extension of access to road transport and light traffic. This is something that is very much to be supported and supported. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u17	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u18	Mr President! I would have checked one thing from Mr Heinos, as far as I know, to understand the nature of this initiative: when we talk about horses, this does not mean that the horses are taken all the way, always acting, to the bikes or to the small stalls, only when it comes to horse riding or leading the horse. If, for example, a horse has a carriage or a wagon of some kind or otherwise, then it is assumed that it is the only way to go. On the other hand, safety must also be ensured there on the cycle tracks.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u19	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u20	Madam President! This is the general rule that this is the way it is done, which means that the rider usually travels on a bicycle road and when the horse is walking, the horse is also being carried. Of course, in some cases, especially in rural areas, there is also a certain amount of track driving along the wheelways, and it is certainly possible to put it into this legislation. It works in situations such as those along highways or larger roads, which are also partly designed for driving. Then it's very natural that it works there. — Thank you to all participants.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-24-ps-104.u21	In this climate of consensus, the debate is over.
