ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. It is now decided, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the basis of the report UaVM 3/2021 vp, on the report. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niiko, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. There are no group statements. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. I'm opening a conversation. — Mr Niikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u2	Mr President! The Government has provided Parliament with a report on the deployment of the Defence Forces Force in Kabul Airport, in accordance with the Law on Decision-making on the provision and request of international assistance. In view of the rapidly deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considers it essential that the evacuation of Finnish citizens in Afghanistan who have requested consular assistance and Afghan residents permanently resident in Finland, as well as persons in accordance with the decisions taken by the Government at its General Session on 13 August and 15 August 2021, be carried out as a matter of urgency. According to reports received by the committee, the latter are primarily persons employed or employed by the Finnish Embassy, EU institutions and NATO, employed in the country of employment and their family members. According to the report, the total number of persons to be evacuated covered by the abovementioned decisions is currently estimated to be approximately 170 persons. In addition, the number of people in need of consular assistance is estimated to be 60, as indicated in the report. There is an increase in the number. Some of the evacuations have been successfully completed. It is possible for the Government to extend the number of persons in need of evacuation within the framework of the mission, if necessary, within its remit. In other words, this is the path to Finland’s possibility to increase the inclusion of persons in protective positions, for example. Mr President! We've got a short time to complete the evacuations. The security situation in Afghanistan and the Taliban's response to evacuations may change suddenly, and the United States is also about to close the Kabul airport security operation at the end of this month. The committee stresses the report's guidelines that efforts should be made to complete the evacuation mission in Finland as soon as possible. Mr President! As part of the preparation of the report, it was examined whether the decision on the operation could be taken as a matter of urgency. The committee, which stated that the situation was justified by the urgency procedure, considers that Finnish legislation, the international law on aid and the legislation on military crisis management do not recognise the needs of the situation in question in the best possible way and not enough. According to the report, the tasks of the protection team would be to protect the personnel of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs participating in the evacuation operation, to support and provide guidance to the persons to be evacuated, to create and share a situation picture and to engage with the liaison officer in the area. According to the Defence Forces' assessment, the use of the group will incur a maximum of EUR 792000, which will be borne by the Ministry of Finance's item Unforeseeable Expenditure. Mr President! The committee also draws attention to the record of the report, according to which there is currently no functioning government in Afghanistan which could be authorised for the use of troops in the country. The export of weapons and ammunition to a potential area of refuge in another country shall be subject to appropriate authorisation from the administration of that country. In view of the weak security situation in Afghanistan and the unclear situation picture, the committee considers the situation development of the mission to be unpredictable and potentially difficult. It is therefore important that the security and situation picture of the mission are closely monitored and that Parliament is also kept informed. Mr President! More generally, in relation to Afghanistan, the Committee draws particular attention to the serious humanitarian crisis in the country. The Committee considers it important for Finland, both bilaterally and as part of the EU and the wider international community, to seek solutions to facilitate and support the humanitarian situation in the country, with particular emphasis on the most vulnerable, including women and children. The committee feels that Parliament should, for a number of reasons, address the situation in Afghanistan in depth separately, including international crisis management. We'll come back to this later. Mr President! Parliament has no comments on the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u3	Thank you. — Before we enter the list of speakers, Mr Haavisto, please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u4	Mr President! I would like to thank Parliament and its Committee on Foreign Affairs at this stage for today's debate and for the ability to deal with the report in such a timely manner. It is great to see Parliament so united at a time of crisis. I am grateful for the support for the proposed policy and the deployment of a protective force. We have addressed a very important issue, our common priority is to help Finns and those in need of protection, and the implementation of Government decisions in a very acute situation where security risks may increase further and the time available will be reduced rapidly. The number of Finnish citizens, holders of a permanent residence permit and Afghans to be evacuated by Government decision is still high in Afghanistan. Most people's need and concern is now very great. I have also taken note of Parliament's will that a revision of the legislation should be considered. This is the first time that this law has been applied. In the same way, I have taken into account the comments made by the representatives on the EU's activities. Finland has always stressed the importance of EU cooperation and coordination. On the spot in Kabul, it has been able to be improved all the time. However, it is true that the EU as a whole still has a lot to develop. However, these are questions to which we must return after the end of the emergency issue at hand, namely the evacuation operation. In this way, we can carefully review, analyse and take the necessary action the lessons that have been learned through experience. The same applies to Afghanistan policy in Finland and the EU. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u5	Thank you. — And now let's go to the list of speakers. — Mr Kimmo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u6	Mr President! I am sure we can all agree with the thanks we have just heard from the Foreign Minister regarding the way in which we dealt with this Parliament. This was a very urgent report. We have obviously done this job and we have also received a unanimous report. Our report in committee was unanimous, and I assume that Parliament will then unanimously support the government in this. This is an urgent and absolutely necessary operation to take a protective force out of Finland to secure this evacuation operation. Mr President, I would like to make three points on our report, in particular, underscored. I would like to pick up on what Mrs Niikko has already said when she has presented this report. Firstly, this number of evacuations: there has now been a figure, the report refers to 170 people, plus 60 people who have asked for consular assistance, who should be evacuated, but we in the committee — and we also propose it to Parliament for approval — felt that this would probably be extended. The Minister himself referred here to the fact that the need for the number of evacuations is likely to be considerably greater than what is now in these figures. We do not need new readings here, but, of course, within the framework of its mandate, the Government can consider this issue in a flexible way, so that all the people who have helped the Finns and the Finns who need protection can be brought within its sphere of protection. The second point I would like to make here is this critical debate which we also had in the Committee on Foreign Affairs yesterday, and this has also been referred to in the debate in the Chamber: is it urgent to deal with what law this international aid would make possible, or is there a more conventional, rather longer method for dealing with and closing this report? Of course, now that we have been through this for 24 hours, you can say that this operation has been quite a success. Thank you all for the wonderful way we've gone through this together. However, the committee's position was, although it is not explicitly stated, implicitly reflected in our report, that this is certainly the place to look at legislation. And that applies not only to this law on international aid, its reception and access, but also to this legislation on military crisis management. In other words, there is a clear need for clarification here, and at least within the framework of the committee we would be prepared to consider this issue. The third point that I would like to make here relates to the broader assessment that has to be made here. Absolutely in Finland, even in the world... We are well aware that there is a critical assessment of what the situation in Afghanistan was and what it is in the other countries involved in the Afghan operation: What have we been taught about this kind of international crisis management operation, where have we been involved? Where has the failure been, where may it have been? And it's been done. The complexity of this situation in Afghanistan should be carefully assessed and, above all, from the point of view of the Finns, what we have invested so much in both development cooperation and military crisis management, which have been the problems and where there is room for improvement in the future, and also what processes have been involved. And in this regard, the committee took its own position on the fact that a report of this kind is, to a great extent, worth doing in Parliament and in depth. In other words, it now takes time so that it is by no means possible to do so at this moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u7	Thank you. — Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u8	Mr President! In this debate, there has been a bit of a strange tone about this proposal that many representatives find it too difficult to send Finnish soldiers abroad to a place where weapons may have to be used, a deadly force may have to be used. I think it should be very difficult. It must not be normal, everyday or easy for such measures to be taken and, at least, there should be no reduction in legislation in this respect. In my view, there are still two very important issues that remain unclear about this report. Firstly, what is meant by this extension of who can be evacuated to the country. It is said that the Government, within its discretion, will expand that group. Let's talk about 170, maybe 60 more. How much is the roof now, Minister Haavisto? Please tell this Parliament a number, the largest number, how many people can be brought to Finland with this operation. What is Parliament actually deciding? The second thing that remains a little thin in this report is how Finnish soldiers will be protected in the event of unexpected events. If the U.S. leaves it early before it has been announced — the United States has withdrawn from Afghanistan quite uncontrollably — then what are we going to do? How do we secure our own soldiers who are there under attack abroad?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u9	Thank you. — Representative Savola, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u10	Mr President! It was a pleasure to note in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that we unanimously support this important report and the operation. Both this urgency and the functioning of the legislation, the number of people to be rescued and, of course, who will be rescued from it, and then the self-protection and insurance issues of soldiers, all of which we agreed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, have also been raised in this referral. Thank you for that. To Mrs Mäkelä, I would just like to say from this ceiling that I would not be worried about that now. I am more concerned about these 170 people whether we will be able to get these people to Finland in this time period. I think that is a bigger question in all this. Our time window, the schedule, is very tight. The United States is retreating on a rather fast schedule, and the fact that we can get our own shelter and even get these people out of there to evacuate to Finland is now the most important thing — not so much that there are very large quantities here. It is good that we are in agreement on this. It is good that we have done so quickly. It is good, of course, that this legislation has now also been tested in practice and we will see the development needs from now on. I would like to express my sincere thanks to Mr Haavisto and Minister Kaikkonen and to the entire Government for the smooth progress that has been made on this issue. It is important that we proceed unanimously. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u11	Thank you. — And Mr Juvonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u12	Mr President! Indeed, this important issue has been dealt with in a hurry, and I would also like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niiko, for that and for his good presentation. It is important that when we send Finnish soldiers from Finland, our own troops into hot ground, where the risk of conflicts is at all times, these people also have good insurance cover if something happens. After all, this insurance cover has also been before the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and the law has also been improved, and it is a good thing that this issue is also mentioned here in the report. It is very important that people who go on such missions, but also voluntarily, know that if something happens there, then sickness and accident will be compensated and compensation will come. It is significant, and this important theme will also be maintained with this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u13	Thank you. — and Mr Al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u14	Mr President! Indeed, the committee was very unanimous on this, that the matter must be dealt with as a matter of urgency, and any support to the Protection Department will also be given as a mandate through Parliament, when it has also been converted through it. Perhaps at this stage I would like to say a word of comfort to the relatives here in Finland, who are concerned about their relatives, from the point of view that this will not be the only debate on Afghanistan, and this is not the only decision that will be taken at this point, but that this debate will continue and the situation in Afghanistan will be on the table, and that is also what our report stresses. Secondly, when we are going to clean up what has happened here, I would like to see Finns and the Finnish administration prepared in the background, even in the event that the United States may suddenly withdraw from another operation very quickly, where there may also be Finnish evacuation troops involved. We must now be ready for rapid decisions to be taken to pull troops into the United States, and at this point Finns must be prepared in advance so that we do not have to go into this situation where we are now.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u15	Thank you. — Mr Pelkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u16	Mr President! I would also like to thank you for bringing about a unanimous report in committee. This is important in this important matter, and it is now essential to get the security operation in motion quickly. As Mr Niikko has already pointed out, the Committee on Foreign Affairs therefore stresses the need for a thorough examination of the situation in Afghanistan at a later stage. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u17	Thank you. — Mr Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u18	Thank you, Mr President. And I would also like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Niikko. I can count on him when he's on the stick, because I'm sure things are well worked out and questions have been asked about things. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude] Mr Mäkelä brought good points about what this entry means that the Government may extend this circle of persons within its remit. Could you, Minister Haavisto, open it? However, this is an essential debate in the sense that Parliament has budgetary power and the right to access information, and when we are here to decide and discuss this issue, it is extremely important what this means, and not whether it is 81 or 82 people, but what the status is. That's what people are asking us over there, and they're watching this show. This is not just for our inner conversation and assumptions. In addition, I would have asked about this same issue when Mrs Mäkelä made a good point about this security. I wonder what the situation is with our soldiers if they go there and that situation gets escalated and changed, because we cannot be confident that the Taliban regime will remain positive about this situation. They may not suddenly think otherwise, and how will we perhaps evacuate our own soldiers?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u19	Thank you. — Mr Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u20	Mr President! I would also like, for my part, to thank the Government and the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs for their good and swift action on this difficult and, in part, tragic issue. I am not concerned either that too many Finnish or Finnish people would be saved in this operation, or that there would be people working for Finland and helping Finland. On the contrary, like many others, I think it is important that we try to help all those people in Afghanistan who have acted for the benefit of Finns and in practice for Finland and who, in this new situation, have apparently been in direct danger of life. In the new situation that has arisen, in the new conditions in Afghanistan, it is also important, in my view, that Finland strives to speed up the reunification of Afghan families living in Finland, and, of course, over the longer term, that, above all, within the quota refugee system, we try to help Afghans in a particularly vulnerable and dangerous situation, especially women and people who have worked there for civil society and human rights, who are now in great danger. Finally, I would like to say that, in this situation, the international community and the Western countries — which I think is the point here — must not turn their backs on Afghanistan or abandon this country. On the contrary, I think it is very important that Western media should try to stay there, if possible, and that humanitarian aid should be given and strengthened. Although I do not understand the Taliban's way of thinking very much, I believe, however, that if the Western media is able to be present and if humanitarian organisations and actors are able to be there, it may have a preemptive effect in view of the problems and outright horrors that we fear will happen in that new situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u21	Thank you. — Mr Mika Kari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u22	Mr President! It is good and necessary and necessary for Finland to react quickly to this situation. That is what we in Parliament agree on, and that is good, and in the same context thank you to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the report. According to the report, the duration of the operation is approximately one month. I myself have been in the Committee on Defence for ten years, and in the various reporting procedures the Committee on Defence has played an important role in these reports. It is understandable that this time the role of the Committee on Defence was reduced, or was not there, because of the urgency. But I think it is important, and indeed necessary, for the Committee on Defence to be subsequently briefed on what kind of risks we are facing. There is justifiable concern about self-preservation, the safety of our own protective forces, and when the operation takes several weeks, the risks will also be cumulative. I therefore hope that the necessary information for the Committee on Defence will also be taken into account from the point of view of the Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u23	Thank you. — Mr Satonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u24	Mr President! I do not want to go into this substance any more, it is so comprehensively discussed here, but I just want to say that I think it is very valuable that, with this timetable and, above all, unanimously, the government and Parliament, the committees, everyone, are able to take a decision on such an important and difficult issue. It is quite a resource for Finnish society if it is possible to act in this way on more things, at least when the need is greatest. It is certainly not self-evident that such matters will be dealt with so quickly and collectively. I think it is a very good thing that we are able to do this together when required.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u26	Thank you. — Representative Ovaska, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u27	Mr President! It is easy to continue with that speech by Mr Satose. Normally, when we in the state administration talk about how the ministries have been silod, it has now been wonderful to see how the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Economic Affairs have jointly handled this palette and then brought it here for us to decide. And now that these evacuations are coming to Finland, the next step is to take care of these people's affairs. It also sees how this cooperation plays out, but this is what I want to pass on. And to the very end, as the report says, we are returning to Afghanistan. It is inevitable that we will have to return to it and have a wide-ranging debate on what has happened, and I hope, above all, that the Foreign Minister will now send a message to the EU's foreign ministers, how the EU will once again fail in such matters, particularly in the area of foreign and security policy. The nation states are operating there, sending their troops and taking care of things. This is also something we have to go back to.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u28	Thank you. — Mr Vähämäki, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u29	Thank you, honourable Speaker! Chairman of the Administrative Section: The Administrative Section deals with the Defence Forces budget. For this measure, the use of the Defence Forces will be subject to the costs of 792000 and will be covered under the heading ‘Unforeseen expenditure’ on the part of the VM. I would therefore like Parliament to be informed about the total cost during the autumn season. I would also like to say that this should not be a cost issue. The fact that Finns can be returned to Finland must never be a cost issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u30	Thank you. — Mr Hassi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u31	Mr President! Surely we all hope that, in such a situation, the European Union will be a more efficient and faster player. However, it is on this issue that we are constantly taking a turn on what powers we are prepared to give the EU and how complex a decision-making system we are calling for. I hope that, on the basis of this experience too, we will now be thinking, and above all the EU countries together, about whether there is something to be learned here in terms of what kind of competence is really needed for the EU in this type of situation and what possible rapid decision-making is also needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u32	Thank you. — Mr Niikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u33	Mr President! At this stage, I am sure that we should thank Parliament for this prompt and good debate and, above all, the committee for having reached such a unanimous conclusion, because we had some issues to discuss. But this shows that, in a tight spot, we can all find a common route where we can make fast decisions. And in that sense, I think it is of paramount importance that, even in a crisis situation, if at all possible, things are brought to the House for consideration, because if they were not brought here now, it would not have come out until a few days after the troops had been taken there, and then if something had happened, then the vote would have been different in this Chamber too, I think. But, Mr President, when it comes to the question of how many people are being brought here from Afghanistan, it is entirely up to the Government to decide. It's not up to the committee to decide. The committee simply stated that the Government's line and line chosen is realistic in this respect, when we know that the United States has given us a week to leave the field for Western troops. This time limit may, of course, change, but based on this information, we only have one week. In that sense, full support must be given that our staff and soldiers will be able to carry out the task assigned to them. Finally, we must do everything we can to alleviate the enormous human suffering that will befall the Afghan people after the Western troops have left. If we return there to that '90s reign of terror, we will certainly see huge influxes of refugees in Europe in the future. That is why it is also extremely important to give our support to the leading people of the EU, such as the Special Representative, who is going there to negotiate with the regime at this stage, to find such a good, peaceful way that the people do not suffer the suffering that is to be feared.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u34	Thank you. — Representative Arhinmäki, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u35	Mr President! There are times when quick decisions are needed — sometimes decisions are so fast that some of the parliamentary groups make it tough to get involved. The Left Alliance Parliamentary Group has attended a summer meeting in Vaasa, and I arrived on the first possible train. At the time when the Parliament House was visible from the train window, there were four requests to speak. The spirit is still running a little fast and sweaty when I ran here — thanks for the statement by the chairman of the committee, Mr Niiko, that I was able to deliver the greetings of the Left Alliance parliamentary group. Mr President! We dealt with this in the parliamentary group, and Mrs Anna Kontula went to the referral debate to give her the key messages from our group. First of all, we think it was right that this matter was quickly brought to the decision of Parliament and we would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for being properly informed and for having the opportunity to discuss it with the Minister last night between the group leaders and to bring our own views. A few comments raised by the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group at its summer meeting: First of all, it is important that there is this time limit, about a month. It clearly shows that the troops that go on an important mission after the barbaric, terrible Taliban invasion... It is important — and we have a duty and a responsibility to ensure — that Finnish citizens, People living permanently in Finland and those who worked for Finland during these nearly 20 years will be brought to safety. We therefore consider both temporal and regional boundaries and the use of force proportionate in principle. At the same time, we would like to stress that this is not a precedent; this does not mean that in the future this will be the way things are handled. Hopefully, we will not find ourselves in a situation where we invite the plenary assembly together with such a fast schedule and the parliamentary groups are meeting all over Finland. But now it has to be done, because help is needed to evacuate Afghanistan quickly. Mr President! The Taliban is a terrible, barbaric organization. When you look at its history, there is a fear that the promises that say there will be no reprisals should not. At the same time, however, it is important to pursue a dialogue with the Taliban, which reminds them that they are bound by all the international agreements, human rights issues and so forth, which are all other countries. The role of girls and women, freedom of expression and human rights are seriously threatened in Afghanistan, and it is up to us, the whole world, to defend them, to speak for them and to act to ensure that they are implemented in Afghanistan, as is the case throughout the world. In addition to evacuating these 170, our group's view is that there are a larger number of people in danger in Afghanistan because of their cooperation with Finland, for Finland's benefit, and we believe that our responsibility for evacuating is even greater. Similarly, the Left Alliance's parliamentary group believes that Finland should be prepared to increase the possible quota of refugees and to receive asylum seekers and refugees from the terrible situation in Afghanistan. Mr President! At the end of the day, we note the need for a very careful, in-depth analysis of what went wrong in Afghanistan. Thousands of billions of euros, 20 years — in a few days society collapsed. We must carefully analyse what mistakes were made, how we can do better. But it's not the time now. The time has come for us to deal with this most urgent, most acute crisis, but it takes time, it takes care. That's the kind of analysis we need. With these greetings from the left-wing delegation meeting, we support the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u36	Thank you. — Mr Östman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u37	Mr President! As indicated in the referral debate, the Christian Democrats support the mission to evacuate Afghanistan and hope that it will be implemented as quickly as possible. The situation is critical, too, because it is not known how long the US security mission in Kabul and the region will continue. The international community will then have to consider how to prepare for the aftermath of the Afghan crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u38	Thank you. — And Minister Haavisto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u39	Mr President! Here are a few more questions to which I will answer at the end of the day. At the same time, I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs and its chairman. Once again, it is a good job. Representatives Mäkelä, Meri and Kari once again took up these security aspects, perhaps on this kind of idea, what would happen if the USA would go and there would be smaller countries to maintain security: such a concept is not possible. That field is in the hands of the United States at the moment, and the United States itself requires that the troops of these smaller partners and countries leave there before they withdraw from the field. We have this military operation run from Finland. The Chief Staff will lead this protection team, make safety assessments, make decisions, all in all, on the basis of current information, of course. Parliament will be held — representative The sea asked this question — up to date. If changes are made, Parliament will also be informed on a very fast and timely schedule. Mr Vähämäki's wish for this cost side was also taken up that this should be monitored in an up-to-date manner. I would like to say that I agree with every word in Mrs Zyskowicz's speech, which was not only about this importance of family reunification — and we are looking for ways to do that under these circumstances — but also about the idea that it would be good if there were actors left in Afghanistan who could act in support of the values that we have in a way different or appreciated, and, for example, the Red Cross and UN organisations have said, at least now, that they will remain in Afghanistan. I think it is very important that Finland, too, supports and tries to take forward these organisations there. Mr Mäkelä and Mr Meri wanted to clarify this statement by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, what is meant by ‘in the sphere of competence’,but,in actual fact,MrSavolaaaikasowell described that we have a very shorttime window to help people at this stage in the country,and I do not think I would like to thank Parliament once again for a good debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u40	Minister Skinner, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u41	Mr President! Mr Satonen very nicely summed up what is most relevant today: unanimity, the strong message and support in this serious and acute situation. Mr Ovaska, you described how important it is for us to act in a cross-administrative manner, in different ministries together, and that is the work we have done. When we wrote the government program a little more than two years ago, we started by wanting to be comprehensive. We said that development policy was part of foreign and security policy. Today, too, and a well-drafted report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy, proves that we need all the different policy areas if and when we want to take the societies, in this case Afghanistan, forward. And the need for humanitarian aid — thanks to the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs for raising it. The need for help is enormous. It's bigger than ever in the whole world. In Afghanistan alone, half the population needs humanitarian aid right now. Finland has reacted in such a way that we have decided yesterday to finance EUR 3 million for the UN refugee organisation, which will then contribute to this difficult situation. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niikko, also mentioned how to proceed. The Development Policy Report is one tool — it is a valuable tool, a valuable process — but overall, as the Foreign Minister has said and as the chairman of the committee has said, we must now look at this whole together, carry out an analysis, assess the situation and together see how Finland and the various actors will act in the future, so that Afghanistan and the world as a whole and the international community and the European Union will have that vision, but in particular, how we will improve the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u42	The debate is closed, and at the same time I say that both the referral and the feedback debate must be congratulated on a fine, good debate in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-91.u43	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The Council of Presidents proposes that Parliament should decide to suspend the Parliament at the end of this sitting and to continue its work on Tuesday, 7 September 2021, starting at 14 p.m. — I will open the debate.
