ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-15-ps-42.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 8/2021 vp. — Mr Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-15-ps-42.u2	Mr President! This is a matter that has been discussed today in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. An ex-post check was carried out on nutritionists. In this regulation, the Province of Northern Ostrobothnia and the Municipality of Kittilä were excluded from the scope of the exclusion measures. This amendment has entered into force on 9.4. Here, when we open up Finland and at the same time limit different things, it is important that when the epidemic situation improves, we also consider the need for restrictions, and here the Council of State has followed the fulfilment of the necessary conditions for these restrictions in an exemplary manner and has abandoned the restriction when it is no longer necessary. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs did, of course, continue to point out that restrictions should be more territorially specific and should also distinguish between different types of nutrition movements when restrictions are made. Since we received a recent assessment of the situation by THL, the committee decided that this regulation should be repealed for the province of North Savo, where the disease situation had improved significantly. It is also important in the future to return to these regions when situations change, but also to look at the regions — large, different regions, including provinces — more finely and restaurants by type.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-15-ps-42.u3	Congressman Rantanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-15-ps-42.u4	Mr President! Many times this week we have been talking about the fact that we should be able to regulate the situation in areas smaller than the provinces and more delicately so that there is no need to cause problems for entrepreneurs who have been subject to these restrictions for a long time and who are therefore also living hard. I would have asked whether Mr Kinnunen, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, might be able to respond when I do not know that now that this regulation was adopted on 9 April and now that the Constitutional Committee has annulled this in relation to North Savo, whether this will constitute an obligation for the state to pay compensation for North Savo in this regard, now that it has been repealed by the Constitutional Committee and put into effect last week. Do you know this? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-15-ps-42.u5	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-15-ps-42.u6	Mr President! This situation in restaurants and restaurants has, admittedly, given me the amazement that although I understand that the regional coordination groups are making their own policies independently as to whether the region is being dealt with, even though North Karelia is still at an acceleration stage, or whether it is still at a basic stage — that, of course, local considerations are the most important — I would like to see, Mr President, and also for all the delegates and the people of the province, that, when we have, as the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs says, different areas would not be caught up, for reasons of certainty, in Finland as a whole. For example, when in my municipality of Ilomants I can’t even remember when that last corona incident was, it was a long time ago, why do we have to be in quarantine when no corona has been seen?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-15-ps-42.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-15-ps-42.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-15-ps-42.u9	Like this. — and Mr Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-15-ps-42.u10	Mr President! This matter of compensation was not discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which means that I have no answer to it. The committee discussed the fact that the THL's assessment is directed at the whole country, for example, the province and the hospital district's own assessment is once again an internal assessment of the province and is also better known for the smaller parts and characteristics of the region. There was also talk of the importance of close dialogue between THL and the hospital districts, of creating a coherent picture of the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-15-ps-42.u11	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 4/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Chairman of the Committee, represented by Mr Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-15-ps-42.u12	Mr President! I present the committee's report. This is a modification and temporary amendment of the law on compensation for damage caused by missions of the State. This would be temporary and, in part, for an indefinite period. The damage could be compensated to a State official and to his accompanying family member as well as to certain persons treated as such for the adverse effects of vaccination against coronapandemics abroad under the same conditions as the vaccine in Finland would be compensated for as a medical injury. The law would also apply to persons in civilian and military crisis management tasks. The law has already been applied to travel accidents in crisis management operations. However, it has been found necessary to provide for this explicitly for reasons of clarity. The committee considers it important that the damage caused by the vaccine caused by coronapandemia be compensated for as a vaccine damage, in proportion to the damage caused by the vaccine given in Finland. The committee stresses that the payment of compensation for sickness or disability as a vaccine damage is conditional on the disease or injury being caused by a vaccine approved by the European Medicines Agency as a vaccine and authorised by the European Commission. No vaccine damage caused by any other pandemic vaccine shall be compensated under the applicable law. According to the committee, this information must be effectively brought to the attention of those who are subject to the law who are vaccinated abroad and it must also be ensured that they are not given anything other than an approved vaccine within the meaning of this law. In Finland’s foreign service and other positions abroad, there are a total of more than 2,000 persons employed by the State and their next family member. Less than 400 soldiers are involved in military crisis management, and there are approximately 110 crisis management experts. In addition, long missions abroad include persons employed by the police, the Border Guard, the Meteorological Institute and the Defence Forces. The Committee notes that the State, as an employer, is obliged to ensure the safety and health of its employees, including when they work abroad. This also means that those residing abroad must have an appropriate opportunity to participate in interest rate interventions. People working abroad are offered the opportunity to take the vaccine in the country of destination or to become vaccinated in Finland. In the Committee's view, vaccination should in future be carried out in advance, taking into account the circumstances and other factors prevailing abroad, before leaving the country. In particular, the urgency of the law to be enacted is due to the need for interest rate reduction in international crisis management operations, both in the interests of the health and safety of crisis management personnel and in order to continue operations in these operations. According to the report received, for example, in UNIFIL, vaccination of all personnel is a prerequisite for future participation in the operation. If Finland is unable to guarantee adequate insurance cover against possible adverse effects of vaccines, Finland may have to stop operating in the operation. On the basis of the findings of the Committee's deliberations on the matter, this applies in particular to military crisis management operations. From the point of view of health and safety, the Committee stresses that Finland operates in military crisis management operations in high-risk areas. 94 civilian crisis management experts are currently in their area of activity and almost half of them work in high-risk areas. The Administrative Committee considers that the draft law is necessary and appropriate and supports the adoption of the draft law without amendment, with the exception of a minor amendment to the technical entry into force provision. The report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-15-ps-42.u13	Like this. — Mr Rantanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-15-ps-42.u14	Mr President! This law came before us as a matter of urgency. Supposedly, this issue has awakened at the point when a civilian crisis management person died of corona was brought to Finland as a dead person. It is good in itself that this matter has now been taken into account, but it is equally important to note that we cannot act in Finland in such a way that we send people here to very underdeveloped conditions in an environment that is completely different from what Finns are used to. I think it is very important that those who have not yet left Finland for these operations and tasks should be vaccinated in Finland before they leave. The situation is that, as this report shows, we have several hundred people in the world, and it is clear that it is challenging to carry them out from Finland. But I find it strange that we should rely solely on the charity of other countries for our men to receive vaccines — yes, these things must be done especially in these situations where people are being sent around the world, including deep Africa, operations and missions, so that we do not put them there without proper protection from the vaccine. I hope that this matter will be dealt with now — as the committee says here too, that this would be a good thing to do in the future. This is a good thing to bring up now. It is also certainly appropriate to monitor the situation of our staff abroad, how these vaccinations are progressing for all and whether they are actually receiving them. It is excellent that this is in force. But I am concerned that, in African countries, if we have individuals and their vaccines, vaccine protection and the possibility of reimbursement for the vaccine damage are linked to these four vaccines approved by the European Medicines Agency, will they have access to them while they are there? This should be followed. But it is excellent that this law has gone through Parliament so quickly and in this respect it is in its own interest to safeguard the situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-15-ps-42.u15	Like this. — and Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-15-ps-42.u16	Mr President! In short, only so much after Mr Rantanen's good speech that when people are sent from Finland to various peace-keeping missions or to many other international missions, it is self-evident that they should have the vaccine protection here before they are sent. This unfortunate example, mentioned by Mr Rantanen, best describes how dangerous the disease is like a corona. I am surprised by the debate in this country that many may be indifferent to the fact that this is a small flu, but this excellent example, as Mr Rantanen has said, illustrates that this is a very serious issue that needs to be taken very seriously when people are sent from Finland to different international tasks. The vaccine protection must be complete, the insurance cover must be complete in case something happens that he is taken care of until the last minute and returned home in good health when the assignment ends, and then, if some accidents occur, he is protected from insurance cover, for example, that potential family members do not get into trouble because the family member has been in international duties. Finally, Mr President, I very much hope that this debate will also send a message to those who doubt that there is no playing with this disease. This is a serious disease. I know a few people in my own family — not right now in the family circle, but in my acquaintances — who have suffered from this disease, and yes their stories have been heartbreaking. Very serious symptoms have been at stake. And, thank God, these people are doing well at the moment, they're already working, but they all said so personally — I haven't talked about it since Monday night when I drove here and met my friend in the car service station near the town of Joensuu, when I was refueling the car, and he said well — that it was such a disease that I had to take this seriously. Let this very quickly and well-ordered law be an example of taking this seriously. I would like to thank the Committee on Administrative Affairs very much for the fact that the work was done very quickly and efficiently.
