ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 21/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — The general debate, the presentation, Mr Salmon, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u2	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend Article 58d of the Act on communicable diseases temporarily in force. By removing the precise definition of close contact and the incidence rate as a criterion for application. In addition, it is proposed to specify the criteria for the application of the criterion in the case of categories of infection in such a way that the adoption of the decision referred to in Article 58d requires that significant contagion clusters have been identified in the region, which, according to expert judgement, pose a significant risk for the widespread spread of new infections in the region. The aim of the proposal is to ensure better regulation of the right to conduct and work in a viable way, without jeopardising the prevention of the spread of covid-19 and its harm to people and society. In addition, the aim remains to safeguard people's lives and health, as well as the adequacy of social and health care services. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers the objectives of the proposal to be justified. The committee notes that Article 1 of the Act on communicable diseases provides that the provisions of the Act on communicable diseases are intended to prevent communicable diseases and their spread and their harm to people and society. The Committee therefore stresses that, in the context of the amendments to the Act on communicable diseases, the overall harm to society caused by restrictions, in addition to the actual prevention of the spread of diseases, must be assessed extensively. Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers the proposed deletion of the definition of close contact to be justified in principle. However, the committee notes that it is essential to prevent the risk of infection in order to combat the epidemic. Avoiding close contact is one way to prevent infection. The committee therefore proposes amendments to the articles so that the rules are amended so that the decision of the authorities is directed not at avoiding close contact but at preventing the risk of infection caused by close contact. In addition, the committee proposes an amendment to Rule 1 in such a way that, when decisions are taken by municipalities and the Regional State Administrative Agency on the restriction of the use of the premises, they do not have to determine separately what is meant by close contact. In the view of the Committee, a changing epidemic situation is not possible, even though both the Committee on Education and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have in their opinions suggested that Article 58d, which is now being amended, should be considered. to be repealed in its entirety. The committee notes that if the provision were to be abolished in its entirety, the authorities would only have access to the closure of the premises referred to in Article 58g or to the closure of the premises referred to in Article 58 or to the prohibition of events where the conditions for the application of those articles are met. However, these provisions do not cover all situations and all premises.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u5	Thank you for your concise presentation. — Representative Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u6	Mr President! The Coalition Party objected to this government proposal to amend Article 58d. We propose that the bill be rejected and that Parliament adopt the Act repealing Article 58d of the Act on communicable diseases. Mr President! We estimate that, in the current epidemic situation, even with the rapid increase in vaccination coverage, Article 58d could be abandoned, which would remove the problematic minimum distance criterion of 2 metres, the interpretation of the law and unfair treatment of traders. Now, in the Government's amendment, the requirement for a distance of 2 metres has been removed, but there is still a lack of interpretation as to how this distance would then be assessed, and the responsibility will be placed with the Regional State Administrative Agency, which should interpret the law clearly, but will then be left to a very wide range of groups across Finland in regional government agencies, how they interpret this. The majority of experts have made very strong criticisms of this proposal, particularly in terms of unfair treatment and confusion. The current situation is already confused with this Article 58d and this government amendment would not clarify the situation at all. For example, MaRa ry, KULTA ry, Music Finland, Finnish Theatres ry, LiveFIN, i.e. the event, culture and restaurant sector, unanimously consider that deleting the section would be a better solution. The industry is also concerned that the law leaves room for interpretation, which may lead to its application in very different ways in different parts of the country and in different activities. This also puts traders in a position of inequality and restricts freedom of trade. The Government's proposal takes legislation in a more ambiguous direction, which can lead to problems. In addition to these experts, the proposal has also been criticised by the authorities. For example, the Regional State Administrative Agency of Southern Finland has stressed that defining close contact by space and activity and separately in the decisions of the Regional State Administrative Agency would be very difficult in practice and also problematic in terms of competence. In its opinion, the Regional Administrative Agency stated that it might be necessary to consider the removal of Article 58d of the Act on communicable diseases as it stands and to provide for a more extensive obligation to organise activities in the context of health security, which would allow for more comprehensive measures than those provided for in Article 58c. And let it be said here that Article 58c However,it has been mentioned that there is a possibility of maintaining sufficient security distances,i.e. the Act In its opinion, the Committee on Education also took a position on the matter and felt that repeal would be a better option, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also asked the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to consider repealing this paragraph. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities was also in favour of repeal. Nevertheless, despite all these critical expert opinions and despite the critical view of the two committees, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health did not repeal this Article 58d. This section is particularly relevant to the cultural and event sector, the majority of which is based on the public economy. This has been an area where these restrictions have been treated unfairly, and there is a reason why operators there are frustrated and annoyed, and above all it is about their livelihoods. Mr President! There are ways to ensure health safety. We have Article 58c and we also have the whole Article 58. I would suggest and propose, in this protest, that the government should bring this whole section into Parliament, which would allow it to be harmonised and the illogicalities contained in it to be redrafted. For example, there is still an incidence criterion in the 58 g closure clause, which is incompatible with the government's own interest rate strategy and is not in line with this Article 58. This Article 58d It would have made sense now to repeal and then bring Article 58 in its entirety for assessment. At the moment, there is no such thing as this requirement for a two-metre safety distance, but if there is such a situation that this is going to be used, then the Regional State Administrative Agency can put about 5 metres if it estimates this somewhere in Finland. It is also unfortunate that there is no mention of facial masks in this bill either.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u7	Thank you. — Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u8	Mr President! It is, of course, in principle good that... [Speaker's microphone shuts down ] The problem here is that now that this two-metre limit is removed, the definition remains open. The exact limit, which may have been impractical in some circumstances, now takes over the consideration of the authorities — the meaner one might say the arbitrariness of the authorities. This can lead to special interpretations across the country, although the ingenuity of Finnish officials has been seen. And then soon the Prime Minister will be able to accuse the officials when they make bad decisions, and the officials will say that they have only followed a law that has been left too open. In this epidemic, especially as it is prolonged for several years, it seems to forget the starting point that the freedom to conduct a business is a fundamental right and can only be restricted for reasons necessary for exceptional reasons to prevent the spread of a communicable disease of general concern. How long can this situation go on like this, and for how long can we say that these reasons are necessary? However, vaccinations have progressed in this country. People have been taking shots. The government would have had time to obtain two vaccinations for every willing person over 16 years of age. Yes, there is a situation where we have to say at some point that these measures are sufficient to do what we can and that life must continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u9	Thank you. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u10	Mr President! We all hope that this corona epidemic will subside and be completely over and all restrictions will be lifted and we will in every way be able to get into what is known as normal life. However, we must see that this is not a very simple issue and cannot be based solely on our own wishes. The main thing is the situation picture. I will use a few things to describe my own assessment, which is based on public statistics on our current situation. In the month from 16 June to 16 July, the number of deaths from corona was 14. During the following month — of which 16.7. From now until 16 August — 25 deaths. From 16 August to this day there were 48 deaths. So the sequence is 14, 25, 48. Today, a joint report from STM and THL reported an increase in the number of intensive care patients and one in five of the intensive care patients in central hospitals are currently in intensive care because of the corona. The incidence rate shows positive developments. Today it was 126 infections per 100,000 inhabitants in two weeks, and in the previous two weeks it was 154. So it's falling down. We have hope that, as vaccinations increase, this situation is slowing down, but, as the hospital load and mortality rates showed, the situation is not so good at the moment. Currently, 82% of those over 12 years of age who have received one vaccine and 65% of those who have received two vaccines. So we are moving rapidly towards a situation where, in an estimated month's time, we will probably have 80 % of those over 12 years of age who have received two vaccines, at which point it is time to significantly remove the existing restrictions. But at the moment the epidemic is still quite significant. Measures have been taken in many countries to lift restrictions, but there are still considerable restrictions in many countries. In the risk group, currently unvaccinated and only one vaccine has been given because the protection against the delta virus is only about 35-40%, and the new risk group is those six months after the two vaccines have been given — at that point, the protection against the vaccine falls to 60-50%, according to current data, from 90 % to 90 %. I myself anticipated that we will have quite a wide front for the third vaccine in Finland. These limitation instruments must be in the legislation, but of course they must be used with extreme discretion and only in overriding situations, and we need a logical continuation. Article 58c is a section on prevention, 58 d is a section containing restrictions, and 58 g is then a section on the total closure of operations. Article 58 of the basic provision does not give the opportunity to intervene but mainly in the public sector, and it essentially includes a total ban on activities, so it is a good thing that there is a less effective way of doing so, i.e. 58 d. This legislation has been complicated. I'm sure there's a lot to fix. Personally, I do not see it as bad that we now have more confidence in municipal and regional activities, and I cannot imagine that, as one previous speaker said, there will be some 5 metres of security playing there. I am in favour of this abandonment of the definition of 2 metres, because it opens up significantly more opportunities for organising various internal events.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u11	Thank you. — And Mr Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u12	Mr President! This decision today, the decision of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, was indeed a wet cloth on the face of events and culture. Representatives of the Government Party in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health accepted the Act on communicable diseases, as amended by section 58d, so that the majority of experts estimate that the situation will only become more confusing.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u15	Thank you. — Mr Viljanen, please. — — — — I would ask you now to focus on this proposal, which is on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u16	Mr President! I am trying to focus specifically on the matter under discussion. Throughout the pandemic, we in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and, of course, in Parliament as a whole have repeatedly had to weigh up the necessary restrictions in terms of the management and prevention of the epidemic and, at the same time, the proportionality of the restrictions in terms of the conduct of the industry. In view of the fact that various restrictions on amendments to the law have been made in force on a temporary basis, the provisions have proved difficult and ambiguous to apply in practice. This message was strongly brought to the attention of the committee, and this is certainly true. The aim of the amendments to Article 58d of the Act on communicable diseases currently under discussion is therefore to ensure better regulation of the right to conduct a business and to work in a viable way, while at the same time not jeopardising the prevention of the spread of the corona epidemic. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health now proposes in its report that Article 58d(4) of the Act on communicable diseases be repealed. With this change, the definition of close contact is abandoned, which means that everyone is already familiar with the two-metre security gap. The removal of the exact metric security gap has been a widely supported measure and is now being implemented. In the view of the Committee, it is now essential to prevent the risk of infection in the fight against epidemics, and avoiding close contact between people is one way of preventing infection. The committee had an in-depth assessment and discussion on the repeal of Article 58d. However, the unpredictability of the disease must be taken into account, and it is therefore important that this section remains in the toolbox of the authorities in the event of a deterioration in the disease situation. However, we do not wish that this tool should be used. If the article were deleted, the authorities would be left with a choice of means only to close the premises as referred to in Article 58g or to close the premises as referred to in Article 58 or to prohibit the events where the conditions for the application of those articles were met. Even these articles would not cover all areas where, if necessary, there would be a need for restrictive measures. At the time of the adoption of Article 58d, the threshold for the application of Article 58d was found to be high and the proposed amendment would further increase the threshold for application. On the basis of light criteria, Article 58d It would not be applied. As has been said, over the past year and a half we have seen the unpredictability of an epidemic. That is why it is important that this section remains in the range of uses. Unfortunately, the epidemic situation is still not over, even if that is what we all want.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u17	Thank you. — Sedan ledamot Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u18	Ärade Herr Talman! Det är verklgen på tiden att ändringar görs i den ox paragrafen, 58 d, och att bland you give TVåmetersregeln tas bort. Bestemmelsen kan inte längre motiveras då pandemicläget har förbättrats och sjukården inte är belastad av pandemin, jack vare framför allt att vaccinationerna i samhället har ökat så snabbt. Vi behandlade lagförslaget också i grundlagsutskottet. Där har vi tidigare slagit fast att begränsningar inte får vara i kraft längre än de kan motiveras. Social- och älsovårdsutskottets betankande verkstaller nu att så också sker och är naturligt då pandemiläget har förbättrats. Tack till utskottets arbete och de övriga ändringarna man gjort i paragrafen. Irade the Talman! Det finns flera anledningar till varför Finland överlag klarat pandemic mycket bra i en internationell jämförelse. Kanske den största anledningen ändå är att finländare variety extreme noggranna överlag med att följa regler och rekommentationer. Man har följt dem för att man har ansett att de har variantt motiverade, på ett allmänt plan proportionerliga, samt att man vetat att begränsningarna tas bot då pandemicläget förbätras med vaccinationerna, och att de ai begränsningarna således vart temporära. Där är vi just nu och därför måste vi också fullfölja löftet om att också lyfta begränsningarna när pandemiläget har förbättrats. För vad som är motiverat eller contributionerligt ändrar hela tiden med pandemic- och vaccinationsläget. Då det här läget nu är bättre och vi är inne i en ny fas i pandemic är det riktigt att det nu syns i den förda politiken, och det görs nu bland you give genom denna ändring och att TVåmetersregeln slopas, vilket är viktigt för både kulturen, event samt idrott. [First Vice-President AnttiRinne : Thank you. — And then the translation summary. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u21	Thank you. — The Chairman of the Committee, Mr Salmon, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u22	Mr President! I would just like to make a brief correction to the misunderstandings that have been made in Mr Mäkelä's and Mr Sarkomaa's speeches, or perhaps there has been no time to look into this. I also found it regrettable that they gave the industry a very pessimistic picture and that this would go some way from the present situation to the worse, given that the government has actually proposed changes — and the committee has changed them to some extent at a point in time — which clearly improve the conditions for action in the field of culture and events, among other things. In this unfortunate situation, in which these sectors are in deep distress, hope should be created rather than pessimism in these areas. Among other things, it has been argued here that all experts — or almost everyone — have felt that this should be reversed. I want this corrected, Mr Sarkomaa. In particular today, the committee asked two key authorities, whose task is to be responsible in Finland for the well-being and health of people — i.e. the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the National Institute for Health and Welfare — to be consulted solely on the subject of whether Article 58d of the Treaty could be applied to the committee. fully rebut. Both, in fact, the only authorities in Finland, which are specifically responsible for the health and well-being of people, said unequivocally: in this epidemic situation, this section should not yet be repealed. It will then be difficult for the committee to make such decisions — except, of course, from the opposition, but it will be difficult for those who take responsibility then to take such decisions — to abolish this. We considered this very seriously when it came to the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, but unfortunately there were no conditions for this on the basis of these expert opinions. I would also like to make it clear that the municipalities or regional government authorities can now take decisions to move on to some 5 metres of security — this cannot be the case. This interpretation is not possible at paragraph level and in the explanatory statement of the government's proposal and in the text of the committee's report. It is stated here in particular that ‘the committee affirms that the word of the arguments is worded as being of limited relevance to On the basis of the record of the Government’s proposal, the definition of close contact can be considered to be reduced, in addition to physical contact, from the previous 2 metres to a very close stay which can be considered to be similar in nature to, for example, these congested waiting situations.’ And the committee did this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u23	Thank you. — Representative Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u24	Mr President! The Coalition Party therefore objected to this Article 58d in committee, since we believe that this should be repealed. I would therefore like to make a change in the basis for this objection. We will then be able to vote on this tomorrow, and everyone will still have a chance to influence whether they want this to be overturned or whether they want this kind of unclear government change proposal that only confuses the situation. I would also like to highlight the views of the experts and the appreciation of their opinions. In the course of this corona epidemic, a clear phenomenon has emerged that experts are not consulted, consulted in the Ministry or actually consulted in committee, so that they have any impact. They will be asked and consulted, but it will not have any significant impact on the content of these laws or on their progress. However, Parliament is for the government's proposals to be evaluated, and they can still be changed here. And it should also be possible to reject them if the proposals are not sufficiently careful and have sufficient impact assessments. Unfortunately, this has come up on a number of points — the last time this memorandum was announced today in connection with the preparation of the corona strategy, in which THL disagreed with the STM, and this has been followed by experts. But in view of the corona epidemic, it is then that experts should be consulted. For example, we have infectors, the whole of Finland, who have appealed to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, but it has no effect. This is undeniably a source of frustration not only for health professionals but also for those involved in the business, cultural and event sectors whose livelihood and many people's jobs depend on these limitations. Are they still necessary and proportionate? I would like the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to have a real look at this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u25	Thank you. — Representative Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u26	Mr President! That is where Mr Laiho made a proposal on the basis of our objection, and I support it. I would like to say here that when you look at this report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, it must be said that there is a very strong justification here for the repeal of this section, it is clearly written here. Here, quite exceptionally, the chairman of the committee now suggested that I would not be familiar with this and that another opposition representative would not be familiar with it. I hope that this level of argument does not go to this Chamber, I do not think it is justified. This has been examined and the expert reports have been read and are very critical. We also read the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in which, exceptionally, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs suggested that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health should consider this. The opinion of the Committee on Education was clear, but above all we refer to the expert opinions which have been widely heard in that Committee on Social Affairs and Health. No one in this Chamber has said that everyone would agree on this, so there have been various expert opinions. And what is really worrying is the information that is repeatedly leaking to the public that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is doing differently from what the THL recommends. This is particularly alarming because it was also stated here that there was unanimous reliance on health expert authorities. This concerns the public because it is thought that, when fundamental rights are restricted, they must be proportionate and precise. Of course, we understand what this piece of legislation means and what situation we are in, but I am well aware that there is uncertainty and concern about how this will be interpreted if this section is needed in the field of culture and events. That is why I find it very justified and warmly support Minister Laiho, who would certainly be a great Minister for Social Affairs and Health, to become such a child, but let me just say what I think.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u27	Thank you. — Representative Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-16-ps-99.u28	Mr President! On these expert statements, I would also like to say: After all, they were now asked to give their opinion on the government's proposal, because at that point our bill was not yet in committee because the period started and we were able to take it there. Nevertheless, even though they had not yet been asked to take a stand on their part, they spontaneously pointed out that this would be a better option — including the Regional State Administrative Agency, which, as an authority, will then have to put them into practice. When it is said here that the two-metre security distance will go away, yes, but when the law-bearer should then determine the way in which he now interprets the law there in practice between the various actors, then he will not be able to afford that interpretation of the law. And while these still have the opportunity to appeal to the administrative court, this is also a matter of legal protection for their officials, of the way and on what basis they make their own decisions, when the law does not provide a sufficiently strong basis and is not unambiguous. Yes, it is a pity that such poor legislation is being prepared. Finally, on these vaccinations: We have a constant increase in vaccination coverage. We should send a signal that Finland will open up and get rid of the restrictions, but we are still sticking to these restrictions and not sending the message to the public and not to the actors that we want to open up society — of course health safety. This is something that has been frozen in the bubble now with this corona and to impose these restrictions when we should think about what is possible for people and how we can open up Finland and catch up with people's needs and care debts and get ahead of this situation.
