ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. It is now decided on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance, on the basis of VAVM 12/2021 vp, on the basis of the report. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 28 June. In the debate, with the support of Lulu Rande Leena Mere, Parliament has proposed to accept the statement of objection 1, with the support of Sofia Vikman Pihla Keto-Huovinen, that Parliament should accept the statement of objection 2 and with the support of Sari Essayah Sari Tanus, that Parliament should accept the statement of objection 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u2	The first vote on the Lulu Rantane proposal is against the proposal by Sofia Vikman and then against the proposal by Sari Essayah, who has won, and the final vote is against the proposal by the committee that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u3	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 18/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — General discussion, Mr Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u4	Mr President! Our supreme law is the Constitution. Let me remind everyone once again: nothing goes beyond it, nothing. Our Constitution guarantees us freedom, integrity, freedom of movement, personal data protection, freedom of industry, legal protection and, ladies and gentlemen, also what you are talking about in relation to every nonsense, namely equality. Mr President! In its report, the committee has not at all taken up the overall insanity of the government's proposal, but has made only a few pathetic fine-tuning measures. This amendment of the law is the most flagrant and discriminatory proposal I have heard for a while. It violates all the above paragraphs in the Constitution. In addition, the government proposal speaks of a reliable covid-19 test. What is a test like this? The PCR test currently in use is not. Why does the government want a stick stuffed in the heads of the healthy people who come here, and if they do not agree to it, it will be punished? Why even test people without symptoms when even WHO has said that the non-symptomatic do not infect? Mr President! When the PCR test is unreliable and asymptomatic, and the reported corona-related deaths do not exceed the standard seasonal influenza level, what is the basis for the current provision of official assistance to the Act on communicable diseases? Over 3,000 people die in Finland a year from alcohol, more than 13,000 die from cardiovascular diseases, some 150 die every day. No people have yet officially died in the Korona. What are the grounds for imposing exceptional circumstances? If this proposal is approved by Parliament, Finland can be closed in the future due to moderate diarrhea. And every parliamentary party that has the yes button can immediately remove its demands for equality from both its speeches and its programmes. The only thing that the government should do is to investigate the adverse effects of its own tyranny on its citizens. Mr President! I quote from the government’s proposal: ‘The People’s Covid-19 vaccinations are increasing, and vaccinations have also been observed to prevent infection and reduce infection, which is why the health authorities have recommended He says that in every country the development curve of the vaccine is followed by the evolution curve of the deaths. He studied patients who have been vaccinated, and he finds that those who have been vaccinated are now creating variants that are resistant to vaccination. In other words, those vaccinated have now become variant virus lines. So the government proposes that healthy virus rings poisoned by corona infections be released free to spread variants. Now that we know that vaccinees are spreading and creating new variants, I ask how Parliament considers it to comply with the following entry in the Government’s proposal: ‘Presentatively, the right to life and health guaranteed by Article 7 of the Constitution would be guaranteed. “ How can you say that this proposal guarantees the right to health when people vaccinated with poison are freely released to spread variants to Finland? With this presentation, the entire government and parliament will again wipe the floor with the Finnish Constitution. Equality does not exist, and open discrimination can continue. Mr President! I looked at the mention of equality on the website of all parties. Ladies and gentlemen, if you vote in favour of this amendment of the law, then equality will mean nothing to you and then you will also participate in discrimination against people in violation of our constitution. Professor Montagnier adds: ‘This is a multidisciplinary and medical error, an unacceptable error which has been recorded inhistory to show.’ Mr President! At second reading, I will propose that this bill be rejected. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u5	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u6	Mr President! This proposal is about how to ensure corona safety at the Finnish borders in the event of increased vaccine coverage, there are no more grounds for maintaining borders or limiting significant travel, and yet it is necessary to be able to ensure the health safety of Finns and people living and living here. I would particularly like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which has made significant changes to this legislative proposal, partly in the way required by the Constitutional Committee. The work input of health care personnel should be targeted correctly and as appropriately as possible. With this in mind, many commentators, experts and also the assembly put forward as the preferred option that transport service providers could have checked the corona certificates already in the countries of origin. However, according to our constitutional interpretation, this is unfortunately not possible under Article 124. There is a very good question as to why this is possible in all other European countries but not in Finland. Let this remain the subject of further investigation. However, it is now of the utmost importance — when, as it were, the best solution cannot be reached — that the verification of corona certificates at the points of entry at home should not only be carried out by health workers or even by municipalities, but also by private health companies, as the committee now states in its report. It is very important that health care staff are able to do their basic work: cancel the maintenance debt during the corona period and manage their normal care work. This would have been significantly jeopardised by the guidelines of the original government's proposal, as as borders and tourism open up, staff requirements at borders will multiply. Mr President! The National Institute for Health and Welfare has estimated that a pre-test for the non-vaccinated and, on the other hand, the first dose of vaccine from a 2-dose vaccination series are equal means of combating the corona epidemic at the time of entry. Therefore, in the case of passengers who have received a partial vaccination series, pre-entry and entry testing could be waived. Thank you very much for this amendment, which was made by the committee in Parliament. By the time the law enters into force, Finland has already achieved a vaccine coverage of more than 70% for the first vaccine and the people at risk have already received both vaccines. Accepting the first dose of vaccine will also reduce the pressure to test when entering the country and place Finns on a more equal footing with other EU citizens. Mr President! The Government's proposal still lacks impact assessments of the current situation, where vaccination coverage has steadily increased, as well as risk assessments of the various restrictive measures. As the number of passengers increases, the restrictive measures proposed by the government in the draft law would lead to an uncontrolled situation at the borders when they are already in a weak state, as some of our fellow Members have noted. It is necessary to target measures and resources for those coming from high-risk countries so that border stations, ports and airports do not end up in an uncontrolled situation. The amendment tabled by the committee, in which risk-based assessment is carried out by country of origin, means that these health certificates will be examined, in particular, by those coming from countries which are considered to be at particular risk, and the Government will then provide for this at a later stage. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs raised this, not as an obligation, but thank you for taking note of this change. Mr President! Tourism has been at a standstill for a long time. Finns have carefully traveled to some neighbouring countries. Of course, perhaps in recent days we have also been able to read about some cases that have failed: how health safety at the borders worked. This is, therefore, a question of no specific tests being carried out. So you have to be prepared for these. Of course, in this situation there were also communication challenges. But we have been living in this situation for a year and a half, and the European Championships for football have also been known for several years. And I'm sure it was known that a lot of people from there now when Allegro was stopped come by buses and cars and probably the next day when the game is over. In other words, we need to better prepare for these situations and then allocate resources where they are particularly needed. Now, this government proposal makes it particularly possible that if the workload of the hospital district or municipal workers is too high, a resource can already be purchased abroad in the short term. Mr President! We continue to thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and hopefully the whole of Parliament, which, by adopting this law, will allow for a peaceful and safe opening of travel and thus the gradual transition of Finland and Finns to European practice in tourism.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u7	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u8	Mr President! We are now dealing with a so-called border law aimed at keeping the covid virus out of the border. After all, this bill is based on the fact that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has previously issued a statement requiring the government to take immediate action to establish an entry procedure to prevent the spread of a communicable disease of general concern and, at the same time, to take account of the increasing traffic volumes in border traffic in the future. Following the introduction of such a model based on prior certificates, mandatory health checks could be clearly targeted at persons who do not have sufficient evidence of a negative covid test result, vaccination or covid disease. In other words, at the moment border traffic is less than 10% of the normal volume, and everyone understands that when traffic volumes continue to increase, the current model can no longer continue, but needs new tools to manage the increasing traffic volume and its number of people, including in terms of controlling the virus. It is also a matter of Finland threatening to remain here in isolation with regard to tourism, when the rest of the world opens its borders, especially Europe, and Finland's economic situation, tourism and business do not allow too tight borders to be maintained. This also affects many families, cooperation and work traffic. Finland has complied with stricter regulation at EU level. Of course, we are in a good situation here with regard to infection, that is of course a good thing, and we will continue to insist on health safety. At the same time, however, if we do not make clear rules of the game at the borders, there will be no way of controlling the increasing volume of traffic that border counties and cities in particular have raised concerns about, that is, if we do not target passengers in countries where the risk is greater, then, so to speak, this issue will rest in our hands, and then we will have no control over the entry of the virus and cause chaos in both ports and airports. We also need to safeguard the capacity of health care, because we have a lot of other tasks in Finland for which the expertise of healthcare personnel is needed to secure statutory services. We must also ensure that the municipalities and cities cope with those tasks and not break the law elsewhere. I would like to raise a few points which have been changed during the committee debate. Congressman Multala has already raised these. First of all, it was stressed that these municipalities, where border stations are located, must receive compensation for all these costs as a result of this activity there. The adequacy of healthcare resources was also highlighted. That is why this committee's report included this risk-based approach, and the Government will then give more precise definitions of how it will be implemented at the borders. This is the best way to ensure the carrying capacity of health care. The committee also discussed and consulted with experts on these requirements of the preliminary test model. After all, it has a certificate of the disease of covid disease, or has received a series of vaccines, or a limit test, a pre-test before coming to Finland or at the border, and then a new test was also taken there more than 14 days earlier, because in an expert consultation, among others, THL said in its own presentation that those who received one vaccine have at least the same benefit as those who have taken the test there at the border or have a pre-test, so this does not increase the risk. I would also like to correct the misunderstanding which perhaps occurred yesterday in one of the newscasts that it is not a question of exempting from another test, but precisely a test at the border or a preliminary test, of what protection this one dose of vaccine will provide. The lack of this government proposal is that it does not take into account the scope of vaccination in any way, the importance of Finland’s vaccination coverage for border traffic and also the importance of risk assessment. Risk assessments have been requested several times, but these have not been obtained from the Ministry as to how the increase in vaccination coverage affects the risk of the severity of covid disease in Finland and also the carrying capacity of health care. And on the original basis, there was this possibility of using the purchase services at the borders, i.e. to check the health certificate. In other words, as the number of passengers increases, we do not only have enough health care personnel to check those certificates, but we also need other persons to do so, and that is why this purchase service was wanted there. Constitutional Committee [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u9	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u10	Mr President! It is clear that inspection activities at the border are currently far from effective and comprehensive, receiving appropriate criticism. An estimated 800 race tourists were released without a corona test from St. Petersburg to Finland when the border became congested. The amazing thing about this is that when Finland reached the historic place of competition, it was quite clear that people are going to see these games. It was known when people were going there, where they were going and when they were returning there, and yet, according to THL, 300 infections have already been detected from tourists returning from the trip. As Mr Multala said, he would have thought something would be learned in a year and a half. There is now a need for a rapid entry procedure to prevent similar situations and to take account of the increasing traffic volume in border traffic. The report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposes very good clarifications of the government's proposal, such as the possibility for authorities to use certification verification services to safeguard resources. Secondly, the committee draws great attention to the fact that the government's proposal targets all passengers arriving. I therefore hope that regulation will take account of the circumstances of the country of origin, such as the incidence rate and the frequency of worrying virus variants. In addition to the committee, this was the wish of a number of experts who had issued an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u11	Congressman Kemp.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u12	Madam President! The aim of this temporary regulation is to reduce cross-border infections in Finland, and in particular these new virus variants. Finland’s coronal incidence is low, but part of the population remains unvaccinated, and as a result, passenger traffic has posed these risks for the acceleration of the epidemic and the further spread of new modified strains of virus to Finland. The risk remains — and this is true. Salminen of THL told STT the other day that more than 120 infections had already been detected by football fans travelling from St.Petersburg to Finland, and, as has been heard today in the hall, this could happen, and of course it had also broken these regulations and wishes about how travel should be carried out. The method of regulation chosen in the Government proposal is also seen as clearer for passengers in the future, as alternative country and region-specific requirements have so far been in force and have therefore changed quite often. I would like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for these changes. It is obvious that we must gradually move towards free borders for tourism, and that is something that I am moved towards, even though, of course, we will continue to have these exceptional regulations. This is part of the rhythm shift in the past and hopefully in a clearer direction. As far as the interest rate is concerned, it is clear that the state's legislation has not been complete at the point when the virus entered Finland. Finland was not sufficiently prepared for the virus epidemic and, in the preparation of the infectious disease, it was not sufficiently ensured that there was a risk of virus surprise. This must have come as a surprise to the new parliamentarians, not only to me, but also to the fact that the state of preparedness was not sufficient. Hopefully, we will be at the end of the corona and such a temporary law will no longer be needed during the autumn, will not have to be used and vaccinations will be sufficiently advanced. I hope, however, that the Government will go through the laws carefully after this interest rate and the preparations for such viral surprises in the future will be brought up to date.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u13	Congressman Keto-Hovinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Tourism is vital for the Finnish economy and many entrepreneurs, and this bill is important for opening up tourism in a health-safe way. However, a number of opinions, as well as the consultations of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, expressed strong concern about the adequacy of health care and public resources, especially as passenger numbers increase, as testing and checking certificates burden our limited resources. As the number of passengers increases, the restrictive measures proposed by the Government in its bill would lead to an uncontrolled situation at the borders. I would therefore like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for the significant changes they have made to this proposal. It is appropriate to target measures and resources for those coming from risk countries in order to avoid a situation that is out of control. For example, about 13 million passengers travel through the border crossing points in the Tornio area under normal conditions. Similarly, the eastern border exceeds approximately 9.5 million passengers per year. Even the current number of inspections and tests commits a significant number of staff out of the basic tasks. In fact, the news of the last few weeks already gave way to reading first in line at the shipping terminal, where hundreds of passengers lined up like herring in a jar. According to the press data, this was due to health checks at the terminal. Immediately after that, we read the eastern border in the car queues, where St. Petersburg’s race tourists lined up for health checks. The disaster that has occurred with the border testing of St. Petersburg’s competition tourists is an example of why testing or checking certificates for all passengers is not sufficiently scalable and in no way cost-effective. The example of race tourists also shows why it would be impossible to test everyone as the number of passengers increases, and it would also be an unsustainable burden on health care and, due to limited healthcare resources, would lead to a sharp increase in the medical debt. According to a study by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, it is not possible to verify the certificates of all passengers, especially in the event of an increase in passenger numbers, but to provide municipalities with a spot check for certificates. This provision thus leaves municipalities and joint municipal authorities wide discretion as to how to allocate the available health resources to the examination of certificates. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has rightly stressed the importance of making the widest possible use of digital applications and reading devices when checking the certificate. However, according to the survey, such applications and equipment are not immediately in use at all points of entry, including airports, ports and land borders based on land transport, all of which do not have border controls at all. Participation in testing is compulsory under the law for persons arriving in Finland under certain conditions, so that the function of municipalities and joint municipal authorities differs from that of checking certificates in such a way that testing must be organised for all persons arriving without a certificate and not covered by the exemption provisions. Therefore, the municipalities and joint municipal boards do not have any discretion as to the scope of this task. This obligation to organise the test is not limited to border municipalities or joint municipal authorities, but passengers may, within the prescribed time limits, apply for a test anywhere in Finland. Madam President! The Government is responsible for securing health care resources in the implementation of the lifting of travel restrictions. As early as August, I asked the government in a written question on the use of dog diagnostics, and I also asked about the follow-up in January. For example, it would be possible to direct public authorities and resources in a cost-effective way by directing potentially infected passengers to further action by health authorities without harnessing all those currently working in basic health care, for example. It is not a question of replacing traditional testing methods in dogs, but of supporting and streamlining testing. The greatest advantage of diagnostic dogs is probably its speed. The diagnosis is practically in seconds. A dog would act as a sort of screening tool. We are close to getting out of this long pandemic, but even before adequate national vaccine protection and the threat of possible future coronavirus variants should be eliminated, we should be able to provide for the use of customs dogs in connection with passenger flow pre-screening, among other things. I would see that, in this situation, all the potential should now be exploited in order to improve border management, and dogs would be cost-effective in this respect as a whole. Moreover, the unfortunate fact is that the current covid-19 pandemic will not remain the last global pandemic. That is why we should now also build a system for our future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u15	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u16	Madam President! As we know and as has been the case in public, we had to vote on a few points in this report, and I would like to explain here, without drama, why we in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health were in favour of the Government's original proposal 105/2021 on these matters. I am not dramatizing this issue and I am not speaking in contentiously at all. I trust our authorities that with this model, which is now being adopted, we will also be able to act and, if necessary, we will be able to bring about changes if, in the event of a possible deterioration of the situation, such changes are to be made. Just one brief time, however, what the original model was. I have said publicly that it was a very clear, predictable and safe model. The reason for this is that the country, i.e. Finland, is to be admitted if there is evidence that within less than six months there has been a corona disease with which immunity has developed, or that both vaccinations, in which case there is immunity, and if neither of these conditions is met, then a negative corona test must be carried out in advance, and then a second test is still required for these individuals within 72 to 120 hours. Then there is the whole situation that, for example, if there is no such pre-test, then within 0 to 24 hours, either at the border or at a designated health centre, the first test must actually be carried out. Now that this matter has been dealt with, perhaps because of the time, perhaps too little attention has been paid to what has happened here in the last few days. In Stockholm, the ECDC, the European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, published on 23 June, last Thursday, a risk assessment, which I quote directly from the summary in Finnish: ‘The risk of cross-borderisation of the conversion of the Koronavirus is very high. The ECDC recommends that, if the country’s vaccination coverage by two doses of vaccine’—notes two—‘there is not sufficient to prevent the spread of the delta from spreading, then, in addition to the According to the ECDC, only those who have So this is a very recent ECDC statement last Thursday. In relation to this situation in different countries, it is stated here — this is a summary by the STM, partly a direct translation of the ECDC risk assessment: ‘The coronavirus delta variant, which is more effective than the two-fold variants of the virus and may also cause more serious hospitalisation-leading coronavirus disease,is spreadin the best EU countries. In this situation, a list of countries from which no health safety measures would be taken against arriving passengers, based on a threshold of incidence and provided for by the Regulation, is not justified as the corona virus situation and the proportion of virus variants in these cases may change very rapidly. The model provided for in the Regulation would not respond quickly enough to changes in the epidemic risk associated with travel. Moreover, the risk-based model would not provide passengers and tour operators with an important predictability as to the health safety requirements associated with travel. A model for all passengers without testing requirements for fully vaccinated and affected persons, but in the absence of both pre- and second-time testing, is very predictable for passengers and effectively addresses the epidemic threat of virus transformation resulting from a rapidly changing epidemic situation.’ In our view, therefore, this would also have been more proactive for tour operators. Now, of course, things are changing all the time. The vaccination situation in Finland is quite good at the moment, as we know, for the first vaccine, but 17 per cent of Finns have received the second vaccine. I'm 69 years old, and I haven't had my second shot yet. I am not here to talk about my own business, but I will compare my own age group, most of which will receive second vaccination at the end of July, where my own date exists. Two weeks must pass to obtain that immunity, i.e. before the end of August we do not actually have protection against this delta virus for people over 60 years of age in Finland, for example, because the number one vaccine is only sufficient for 33% immunity. The second vaccine, which is, in fact, the whole of the vaccination, gives us 90% protection. That is the point. If we had now had the tenacity to act according to this government's original proposal even in July and August, this situation would have been safer and, in fact, more secure for the coming winter season, such as the tourism of Lapland, than for us to take risks now, which means that we may have a bad situation in the autumn, and then we will be in the same situation as last autumn, when we will then be faced with unexpected situations. Here is a brief summary of why we felt that way. But I will go back to where I started, that I do not want to dramatise this issue now. We have sensible authorities and sensible decision-makers and, if necessary, changes can be made if they appear to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u17	Congressman Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u18	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Finland och vår regering har hittt sig närapå exemplariskt i fråga om att Hindra pandemics framfart och spridning i vårt land, samtidigt som samhällets viktigaste functioner och företag och kommuner fått stöd för de kostnader och förluster de haft på grund av coronapandemin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u19	Madam President! It is really great that we are at this point that clear legislation and clear regulations are available on entry. It is, of course, a pity that for a year and a half the government has had time to bring a clear proposal to Parliament on this matter and only now has a proposal been received for Parliament, on the basis of which the committee, with small changes, has then been able to produce a report which will enable Parliament to decide on clear entry regulations. It is very important that health safety can be ensured when it is clear that travel begins to grow as the pandemic dwindles. This is, of course, absolutely essential for the Finnish economy, for the employment of our country, so that, for example, there is a clear framework for tourism. Personally, I might have wanted even more risk-based consideration of this entry model, and hopefully in the future the entry will work to prevent the virus from entering the country, but healthy people will then be allowed to travel more freely. I was a little surprised by Mr Lindén, whose expertise I appreciate very much in itself, when it comes to this deltavariant, because now that the deltarian has come to Finland a great deal, for example, by the Finns who have visited St. Petersburg, would these changes by Mr Lindén have helped this situation in any way, I do not know. But it is absolutely terrible that this is the way to allow the virus to enter the country. In particular, the government should have been active in every way in this risk assessment in order to focus efforts on cross-border traffic where there is an obvious risk that this dangerous virus variant will move, and then let us give a freer opportunity, for example, for such leisure travel, which I hope will be as much as possible in the coming winter, for example. In Lapland it is seen that healthy people from Central Europe and their families can come and enjoy nature. They're in the middle of nature under completely quarantined conditions. There they are not a danger to health safety, neither to themselves nor to anyone else, when they have gone on a healthy journey. What really matters now, Mr President, is that it is possible to adopt a law which will certainly also mark the coming winter, so that the tour operators will now have the courage to look back at Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u20	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u21	Mr President! This is, therefore, a matter of amending the Act on communicable diseases with regard to a number of specific points, namely tourism, travel to Finland and the opening of borders for those who come here in general. I was on the subject in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, and the most important questions there were how long such a restriction, which is now being created, should be in force; how to proceed with this second test, which was required in this draft law, because it is not, as a general rule, required in any other EU country; who is allowed to review these corona certificates; and then with regard to what is being done with regard to the so-called green countries, where travel restrictions have not been in place to the same extent so far. Although we are now talking about tourism, it is also largely about how we open Finland, how we get used to the post-corona period or how we get out of this corona period. Unfortunately, those tourists from St. Petersburg took us back to the thought of how to open this country if we do not do it responsibly and systematically, but let us hope that this was as a reminder to all of us that the systems must be in order for us to be able to open it safely. Well, first of all, how long should this legal amendment, what is presented here, be in force? I mean, it's the show, right? It's 31 December. Until then, but the committee then made a change on the basis of the condition of the Constitutional Committee that it should be reduced, i.e. until 15 October. We in the Assembly felt that this second test requirement could have been even more recent, that is to say until mid-August, but in all respects this law is 15.10. in force. Then, with regard to that second test, it was concluded that those who have received one vaccination are not required to do this first test at the time of entry, but only after three days have to do the second test. Just as the vice-president of the committee, Mr Laiho, said, there has been some misinformation about this in public. Then the third question was who could check these certificates. We in the Coalition Party began by saying that the most sensible thing for the use of resources would have been that transport service providers, for example airlines, could have done this already in the country of origin, but the interpretation of the Constitution regarding Article 124 in Finland is so strong that this could not be done. It also involves the fact that these corona certificates cannot be read as travel documents but require knowledge of health care. Well, the second most sensible solution in our opinion was that we should then allow the non-public sector to operate here as well. And so we suggested purchasing service providers there to provide additional services just to ensure that, now that travel opens up, we could also guarantee the activities of health care personnel where they were needed, that is, in municipalities, health centers unloading queues, caring for people, and not so that they would spend all their time there at airports and ports checking interest rate certificates. It is estimated that at Helsinki Airport, for example, the number of passengers per day will reach up to 60,000 people, so that it is quite impossible for all healthcare personnel to be directed from the public sector. Of course, this also included the possibility that not all tourists need to be checked, but that it can also be carried out by spot checks. One of the key changes that came from expert consultations was that, as it were, the green countries will then be allowed here in principle in the future. In other words, paragraph 2 was added to Article 16a, which states: ‘In addition to the provisions of paragraph 1 above,the obligation to present certificates and to take part in the test does not apply to persons who come from a country in Finland from a region where the prevalence of Covid-19 disease or the prevalence of a modified virus does not pose a particular risk of spreading The Government Decree lays down more detailed provisions for the countries and territories referred to in this paragraph.’ In other words, this is now an addition to this original proposal, which many of the commentators felt was important precisely because Finland would not be different from other countries that followed common practices in Europe. We members of the Assembly in that committee greatly appreciate the work that has been done in Finland to combat the covid-19 pandemic, but we see that Finland must open up responsibly and systematically at the same pace as other European countries and monitor how things are going and, if necessary, act quickly if changes are needed. But Finland must open up in the same way as other European countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u22	Congressman Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u23	Irade fru talman! Precis som ledamot Veronica Rehn-Kivi underströk i sin utmärkta taltur har Finland klarat av den ruus pandemic på ett mycket bra överlag. Landets regering har gjort svåra, men lä avvägda beslut under hela den turiden, samtidigt som alla finländare variants valdigt noga med att följa restrictionner och recommenter. Det gäller ändå att vi hela tiden får saker att fungera i practiceken, då läget också Kontinuerligt förändras. Fastan vi är försiktiga kan vi inte Heller bli överförsiktiga, för då kommer ingen orka i förlängningen. Man måste ha begränsningar och bestammelser som hela tiden kan motiveras och som allmänheten kan förstå. Tack till social- och älsovårdsutskottet för Väl avvägda ändringar i regeringens lagförslag. De ärdringarna följer det utlåtande som grundlagsutskottet godkänt. De rau ändringarna hjälper många sakkunnigas oro för det rai lagförslaget och deras ursprungliga critik och de rai ändringarna har också fullt stöd av Institutet för älsa och väffärd, THL. För mig är de är ändringarna också nödvändiga för att få lagförslagets målsättning att också fungera i practiceken. Finlands testcapacitet är inte obegränsad, och skulle man inte fortsätta med systemet med gröna länder och man skulle behöva testa samtliga skulle risken finnas att man inte hade capacitet att testa alla från högriskländer effectsom man också skulle testa alla från lågriskländer. Det är enligt min mening viktigare att man säkersteller att det finns kapacitet att testa till exempel alla de som kommer hem från fotbolls-EM i Ryssland än att man exempelvis skulle börja testa alla personaler från Island, där läget är till och med flera gånger battre än i Finland och vaccinationsgraden är högre n hos oss. Det ursprungliga förslaget hade krävt dubbla test av dem som också kom från till exempel Island. Det hade variant att använda begränsade resurser felaktigt. De är ändringarna med gröna länder gör att begränsade resurser i stället kan användas där de mest behövs, för om målsättningen är att hålla deltaviruset ute hjälper det inte att börja testa alla från Island medan man låter många hundratals resenärer från Rysssland och fotbolls-EM roll in utan testt, för det finns ju en risk att det är just deltavirus som många av de som nuvarit i Sankt Petersburgär smitade av. Det är ännu en quartzfinal i photobolls-EM som ska spelas i Sankt Petersburg. Below vet när matchen kommer att spelas och att finländare kommer vara där och att de kommer att komba tillbaka hem igen. Då de kommer tillbaka är det viktigare att man tester dem och har capacitet för det än att man börjar testa till exempel fritidsbåtar som hits variantt undantagna under hela pandemic men som enligt lagförslaget inte längre ska vaa undantagna. Gränsbevakningen kommer inte ha några vöjligheter att övervaka att fritidsbåtar har negativa test. Som ni vet har de en viktig uppgift att upprättthålla säkerheten och ordningen till sjöss och bistå personer i sjönöd, och trafiken är ytterst livlig i det arv sure vädret som vi nu kan njuta av. Det är viktigt att de kan Koncentrera sig på de uppgifterna, och därför är jag överraskad att den är gruppen fritidsbåtar inte fortsatt är undantagna, då det mig vetterligen inte vart några problemm med den är gruppen under hela pandemin och det som sagt inte finns några praktska möjligheter att övervaka den ravartrfiken i prakken. Irade fru talman! Det är mycket att en dos vaccin erätter behovet av ett förhandstest. Det hjälper också mycket i practiceken. Hittills har nämligen vivi grupper variant undantagna och fått resa in i Finland trots våra begränsningar. Exempelvis personal som är gifta med finländare, är särbo med finländare eller har barn skinp med en finländare men inte själv är finländsk medborgare har variantt undantagna. Samma sak gäller många andra familijeorsaker. Enligt det ursprungliga lagförslaget skulle dessa inte längre ha undantagen kvar, vilket är omöjligt för mig att förstå och motivera och att de skulle behöva ta ett flera Hundra euros test för att få resa in på det sättet som de gjort under hela pandemic. Någon kanske ska ämta ett barn som de har delad vårdnad över men där den andra förläldern kanske bor i Sverige — något som inte är helt ovanligt på exempelvis Åland. Det handlar inte om tusentals personer utan om några Hundratals kanske, men lagförslaget tog bort det rai undantaget trots att många inte fått två doser vaccin ännu. Då man nu erätter förhandstestet med första dosen vaccin hjälper det mycket i practiceken. Det är ändå viktigt att man hittar fungerande lösningar för de personer som ännu är så unga att de inte en fått en enda dos vaccin men som hits har fått komma till Finland. Jag har av inrikesministeriet fått beskedet att dessa i stället kan göra dubbla test i Finland, och det låter bra, för det gör att det det rau också kan fungera i practicekken. Irade the Talman! Det kommer ändå reserve utmanande att få testkaciteten att räcka till. Det ox har Helsingfors sagt, Torneå sagt och Åland sagt. På Åland kan testcapaciteten byggas ut till cirka 200-300 test per dygn. De är ändringarna som social- och älsovårdsutskottet gjort gör det mer realisticskt att kunna testa fler, men det finns fortfarande en stor risk att capaciteten inte kommer räcka till under vivi dagar i Slutet av juli ifall det är så att Sverige inte är grönlistat då. Utvecklingen i Sverige samt i Estland ser nu mycket bra ut och går i rätt riktning. Om läget snart är så bra att de kan bli gröna länder så kommer det underlätta mycket i practicen. Om det är så att kapaciteten inte räcker till så kommer hälsovårdsmyndigheterna i stället i practiceken att behöva göra stickprov. Det är fint att social- och älsovårdsutskottet tar fasta på detta i betatankandet i enlighet med förvaltningsutskottets utlåtande. Det är också viktigt att man skriver att Åland fortsättingsvis kan organisera testerna bara på en plats. Med tre internationalella hamnar och en internationalell flygplats skulle det vara omöjligt att organisera testning vid alla dessa punkter. Därför har de hittillalls centraliserats till en plats. Det är fint att både förvaltningssutskottet och social- och älsovårdsutskottet samt utlåtandet från social- och älsovårdsministeriet tar fasta på att detta kan fortsätta. Tack till social- och halsovårdsutskottet för att ni gjort ändringar som gör att lagförslaget lattare kan fungera i practicekken som lag, vilket gör att begränsade resurser kan prioritaras till inresande från högriskländer. Mottot måste reserve att en lag bara är så bra som dess implementation. Därför är det viktigt att man också får realisticska vöjligheter att få lagen att fungera i sommar. Irade the Talman! Avslutningsvis en viktig påminnelse till oss below. Trots att läget är bättre i Finland och i Europa så lever vi fortfarande i en global pandemic. Det gäller att fortsätta tähderna, hålla avstånd, stanna hemma om är sjuk, testa sig med låg tröskel om man har symptom samt vaccinera sig då det blir ens tid. Tack till alla finländare som tags och fortsätter att ta ansvar under hela pandemic. — Tack. [PresidentAnuVehviläinen : Joint motion. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u26	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u27	Madam President! What is important now is that we have a proposal and a report here that we can take forward and prevent the spread of viruses that come across borders, but also open Finland to the mobility of people, including tourism. Mr President! As well as we in Finland have done with the treatment of this corona pandemic — thanks to the authorities who have responded, and also to adequate restrictions, thank you for it and for them, and also to the obedient people very much for it — we must say now that Finland has not succeeded in this spread of viruses across borders, and one can say that this compromise has now been going on for a year and a half. First, the problem was at airports, then it was in ports, and now it is in both. I believe that this is a very alarming issue, and there is certainly no such thing as blame or one solution, but this should be better achieved. We have so many examples of other countries, and yet we continue to do so that every time there is a problem, it is not really something to be prepared for, and then when we have to start doing the law quickly, then there will be an emergency and the milk will be in the country no matter how long it takes. Very good speeches have been made here. I will take, for example, the fact that a few weeks ago, when I mentioned these ports, we had a ship in that port. It was all in the public eye. It was a case of disease. It also happened that cats and dogs had to start looking for a law that could be introduced, that we could keep that ship and take care of those people and take over that ship in a way. Well, then the transport safety authorities came, who were able to do this by their own legislation when other legislation was not up-to-date. Mr Kemppi made a good speech and said that we should be better prepared and called for the future to be prepared and then for reflection to take place. I say that now is not the time to wait for anything, but it is absolutely time to assess what can still be done, and much can still be done. I would say that now we must learn a lesson from this too. We have now spent a year and a half studying this cross-border outbreak of viruses. Those viruses do not see whether this is a country or what a country this is, whether I can come here now, but they go to the mucous membranes. There is nothing else, there is no obstacle, and that is why we need to think about how we can prevent that virus from coming here to Finland by various means. Well, it's no use crying about fallen milk now, but I'd say,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u28	Congressman Nurminen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u29	Madam President! It is a good thing that this temporary amendment to the Act on communicable diseases is now under discussion, and I personally believe and trust in our authorities that this will certainly succeed in the future. But perhaps I should like to start by pointing out the point of view that we have a lot of people who have been practically isolated this past year and who have been very careful and have not seen other people. In other words, when we talk about travel and opening up borders, I myself would be putting the emphasis on border security, especially from this point of view, when it comes to what situations many Finns have had to settle for and be in during this current pandemic. And if we are looking at this proposal now, it is fair to say that we Social Democrats had to vote against this committee's decision on certain points, and it is, of course, quite honest to admit this openly, and that is why I should like to justify it on a few more points, which is why, for example, I, in these particular weightings, leaned on the different positions of the majority of the committee. Firstly, when we look at our statistics, the corona is becoming more and more over our borders, and I personally do not think it is a good thing that, in this situation, Parliament is opening up this travel even more and making it easier in this situation, especially as these viral variations are increasing and rumbling. Our model, which we supported and what the government had prepared, is very simply based on the fact that when a person has two vaccines, he is allowed to travel freely, or if he has had corona disease less than six months ago or has had two certified tests to prove it, then travel is possible. Health-safely, researchedly, the risk here is the least, so that we keep these virus variants away from our Finland in particular. However, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health decided, on a proposal from the other groups, to amend the articles in two respects, i.e. to open up travel from countries with a low incidence. In practice, we have now talked about these green countries, and of course it is now important to define what these green countries are. We've been talking and there's been demands on the incidence of 50 and so on. We have to think that in Finland the incidence has been kept very low, and it has had very big meanings, in many ways positive, that we have been the best in the world with all the indicators, and if we are now fully opening up, i.e. people are allowed to travel freely, come and go, then in this situation I personally do not see it as important and necessary where the Parliament ended up. In further preparation, I do expect these green countries to be defined very rigorously, and this is in the interests of the Finns. The second change that has been commended here is that in the future, wherever you come from, the vaccine will replace the pre-test. So when, for example, I got the first vaccine a week and a half ago and I was somewhere, I could come, even if there was a very big incidence rate, to Finland and then a few days later to go to this second test, and I may have carried this without knowing it and exposed many people and not considered it very important for health safety. As Mr Lindén has pointed out, this delta virus has brought a whole new dimension to our debate on corona, and this is changing. In these studies, one vaccine only protects more than 30% of this deltarian, whereas two vaccines give us more than 90% protection. Personally, I personally think that if I go on a trip or come here, I expect that I will not be able to infect other people or I will not give danger to others, and I can take care of that tighter border control so that then I can travel more freely and be, that is, inside Finland and elsewhere. In other words, I do not understand these relaxations in this respect, and that is why I want to make this clear here, but I hope, of course, that these proposals will also be able to cope with them. Then perhaps this whole control of the disease has been this balancing, which is also here. Many Members here in their speeches call for strict border controls, but at the same time they want to relax this and, in practice, significantly open it up. I understand it because the pressure has been enormous. I understand all tourism entrepreneurs and our tourism industry, and I see that, with strict border controls, we can, however, make it possible for its industry and its future season to take steps. These are not as opposite as we have wanted to understand and do here. I say that certain forces here were terribly active and demanded these relaxations, and personally I am disappointed that these forces won in this so-called debate. I'm not going to go any further, but I'm a little sorry about that. But I hope that these virus variants and others will not be able to reproduce exponentially in Finland with these relaxations of the border law, which has now been decided to do in Parliament, and of course we all have a responsibility there. However, I still wanted to bring this line to our attention, which was exceptional. From my own history, I don't know that... It may be a little embarrassing to admit that we were left in the opposition here, but I would like to say openly that these were the reasons why I myself had to vote against these certain laxities. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u30	Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u31	Madam President! This proposal on border security has really been long awaited and, just as the previous speakers have pointed out, throughout the period of the corona pandemic, these limits have indeed been a problem and their safety has been a problem. At that time, we called for the borders to work faster and close borders and test people, and now, of course, we are in a different situation. For us, tourism is a very important sector and, of course, mobility is important for people, but all these activities we have to do in a health-safe way, and that is possible. However, as has now been pointed out, these delta viruses are quite unique, are highly contagious and also cause more serious forms of disease, and we must be very vigilant in this regard, because the virus is moving across borders quickly and even those that are currently green countries can be in a completely different situation the day after tomorrow. I would like to underline the importance of clear information here. As has been said on that eastern border, passengers have not had the proper clarity and have not received clear instructions on how to act, how to act. I would now like to call for clear information in cat sizes so that it can be easily found for those who are planning to travel: what, at what stage and how can borders be tried and tested. In the same breath, I would also underline the clear information and appeal that every citizen has the greatest responsibility, whether he travels across the border or travels in close proximity. And I would continue to see that this summer we should also be strongly informed and appealed to the public to ensure that each of us does not accidentally infect the virus if it is unknowingly carried and does not get the disease itself. I would also like to see that these various possibilities and information, petitions should have a strong recommendation that the tests were carried out before the trip took place, that, even if they were not imposed everywhere, this would still be the case. I understand and thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for having made such changes — and I understand the overall picture — in order to make it more operational at the borders as well. Here I continue to call for and ask where the breath tests are — those breath tests that immediately show whether the result is negative, so that the person travels, moves without the virus, because that would be the solution for many. I would like this to be clarified, and in Finland too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u32	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u33	Mr President! I am glad that Mr Nurminen stayed to listen to me because I was a little surprised that the representative was in the impression that Parliament now decides who is allowed to come to Finland and who is not. This is not the case, but even after this proposal, the Government will continue to take the decisions on who comes here and on what grounds. This law amends the Act on communicable diseases, which then obliges those who are allowed to come — whether they are commuters, tourists or so on — in what way they are being tested and how they must act in the meantime before the second test is carried out. That is what it is all about, which means that Parliament is now not reducing anything, but is now giving the Government the opportunity to consider which countries, the grounds for reducing travel restrictions, so it is worth looking at it further in the direction of the Government when we talk about these reductions. Instead, what these changes are about is that if the Government decides that, for example, leisure time is now allowed, then tests can be effectively targeted where they are actually useful and where they are needed. If that original government proposal had gone through as such, it would have been virtually impossible to free travel, because it would have tied so much resources to the borders that they would be congested and the risk of disease could have increased in itself, as people would have waited, for example the machines come at the same time and so on. A thousand people would have required 150 people to look at those certificates, to manage border security and then to carry out these tests, and everyone will understand if 100 of them are health professionals, that if we have 3,000 passengers at the same time, it is impossible to do this, for example, for the City of Vantaa. Now it's reasonable. Here you can apply the tests where you need them. That is what we should be doing at the moment, that is to say, to impose tests on people from countries that are at risk. And this is where the failure occurred when the Finns returning from St. Petersburg came, so Avihan said not to test, came too much at once, we do not have staff here at the border, we are not equipped, and that is why. The second problem, of course, was that voluntary quarantine was not observed, i.e. persons who had entered the country if they did not take the first test or, even if they had obtained a negative test result, did not comply with the voluntary quarantine and thus spread the virus around many — some of them at least. It is, therefore, a question of not everyone complying with the regulations and, on the other hand, of not complying with the avi, as it were, with its own willingness to test, which means that it is up to them to decide whether or not to test. In this situation, this law...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u34	Reply, representative Nurminen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u35	Mr President! Of course, now that this classification of the green countries is being carried out, it is clear that I myself represent the line that it must be very strict now that it has come to this conclusion. But I'm saying there's been a lot of different demands here. For example, the EU defines this list of green countries according to the incidence of 50, and I think it is far too high to look at our disease situation. And if we go along this line defined by the EU, that would mean that these countries — I am not quite sure now, I believe there are 12 — could come to Finland completely without any border controls. And when this is only a matter of temporary legislation for a few months in a situation where our vaccination coverage is not yet very good and these conversion viruses are coming, there is a problem and a great risk that we might now be weakened by the lime lines.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u36	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u37	Mr President! To begin with, I would also like to make it clear to Mr Nurminen that if you come from a high-risk country, you have received one vaccination, it could only become so — that this is not the way it is going to be, but that this risk assessment means that we are targeting high-risk countries and that we can still impose mandatory health checks and tests at the border. That is to say, this risk assessment means allocating those resources in a sensible way and where it is at risk. For example, considering this virus that came with the St. Petersburg buses, of course more resources and testing should have been allocated to it, information, but it failed. This was a good indication that if an unexpectedly large number of people come, then it will not be able to be controlled and put in an uncontrolled situation. And that is precisely what this bill is trying to prevent so that the situation does not become out of control in ports and airports. I would like to give an example of Helsinki’s statement that on the busiest days of normal times there will be more than 30,000 passengers a day. Such a number of passengers cannot be stopped for checking certificates, collecting, testing and reserving personal and contact information, and when the number of passengers is stored there they will be packed together and the risk of disease will increase if the infected is among them. It's the same thing in the car lane. Stopping large numbers would lead to chaos when those cars do not move from there. At Helsinki Airport 60,000 certificates would be reviewed per day. The proposal is binding — quite rightly, we do not have such a number of healthcare staff there at the borders to check these certificates. We are forced to carry out a risk assessment of where and to whom more resources should be allocated. Political decision-makers also have a responsibility to take decisions that are even to some extent possible to implement, while also taking account of the fact that services are not being weakened from another point of view. And if there is a risk that our statutory other services will be compromised, then of course we will have to check whether that is the right way. Then a few more words about the Regional State Administrative Agencies. Although there are some countries in Europe that are in the green area,the current prevalence of 25,100,000,where Finland has considered these countries to be low-level countries. And rightly here, Mr Nurminen pointed out that in Europe the pan-European line is 50 per 100,000, and it is a recommendation from the Commission and the Council at the moment. It will certainly then be assessed what is the level of incidence in which we want the criterion to be applied, and it will now be up to the Government to decide. At the same time, the balance must also be struck with the fact that municipalities are able to cope with their normal statutory tasks. The regional government agencies still have the opportunity to target the amendments, also to take those from the green country or otherwise — if there is any doubt that they have been infected, for example, on board an aircraft — to target them in exactly the same way as they were in the past when these Skopje flights came. That possibility still exists, and there is always the opportunity to order another test. And then a few words about the delta virus. That's about 60% more contagious, and that's why it's spreading faster. Of course, why it spreads more quickly may also mean that people are becoming tired of hygiene measures and then loosened from those hygiene practices and more restrictions have also begun to be lifted in other respects. The future will show what the significance of these different virus variants will be, but according to experts, vaccination will provide good protection for the delta virus. There is no evidence for the time being that the delta virus is somehow more dangerous than the others, so there is no reason to stir up such a panic either. It's one conversion. When the flu virus becomes a slightly different variant every year, surely we too will have to adjust to the fact that it changes a little and then the vaccines will have to be adjusted in that direction. Fortunately, however, we now have a good situation in Finland. The majority of risk groups have already received two doses and young people and are vaccinated. The carrying capacity of health care has so far not been compromised and there is no such thing in sight at this stage. Summer is, of course, a challenging time in social and health care for staff and customers too, when there are holidays and lots of infections and stuff, but I think we can handle this. I'm glad we got this show.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u38	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u39	Madam President! From where I am — the debate has already started in the second round, and quite the same questions have been raised here. The first thing I would like to say is that yesterday I read the statement by Professor of Virology, Mr Vapalahti, who said very clearly that the delta virus is both more contagious, twice as contagious, and likely to cause a more serious form of disease. This as a comment to the medical colleague Laiho on this matter. And in Finland this situation of two vaccinations is now that 17% of the population have two vaccines and is in fact 14 percentage points lower than the EU average. In other words, we in Finland chose the way that we were primarily vaccinated with the number one vaccine and then we have come to Europe to follow this situation with the second vaccine. Here Mr Löfström, whose speeches I always listen to very carefully, is very good at arguing, pointed out this situation in Iceland. After all, he set it as an example of why the same tests and controls should be arranged for the Icelandic people as for those who come from another country. It is a good question-making exercise, but I myself have just checked how Iceland is doing. There is a much tighter border control than in Finland. It requires everyone, anyone from any country, to take the first test. Besides that, there's a quarantine. Then you can shorten the quarantine with a second test. In other words, they have kept that good situation precisely with this very tight border control. Here we come to the challenge, which is that those countries — including Finland and Norway and Iceland — which have the three best or lowest rates of incidence, are in a situation where there are countries around us or a little further south of Europe where the situation is bad. And now it is precisely the question of how best we can protect our own good situation. Now I am asking in detail because I see that there are some speakers from the Group of the European People's Party here very soon: will tourism now be easier? I tried to figure out for myself — thinking a little about this summer, when this time comes — whether to go to North Norway to drive this summer, as I did last summer, and yes, it was very difficult. I was unable to find what the criteria were and whether I could go to Finland and whether I should do what tests and so on. And the more diverse we now make these different criteria from different countries in Europe, the more difficult tourism becomes. And, in fact, this model, which would have required certain tests from all countries, would have been, in fact, a clearer model for tourism. As a last comment: for example, it is now unclear to me that when we give up the preliminary tests in certain countries, let us at the same time give up the fact that when the operators are:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u40	Congressman Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u41	Madam President! Here I can send Mr Lindén a link to the Yle case, where they showed how it was going to travel to Norway. It had a good description of this. And if you can't get all the way to Norway, I hope you'll still stop in Lapland. I'll buy you a cup of coffee, if you like, or even lunch when you come to Rovaniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u46	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u47	Mr President! I came here a little more to clarify what the Committee on Social Affairs and Health decided on with regard to these so-called green countries. In particular, Mr Nurminen, the representative of the Social Democrats, has just made a comment here in the Chamber that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health only followed what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said in its opinion. In this respect, on page 4 of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, paragraph 12 states: ‘However, the Constitutional Affairs Committee considers the proposed regulation to be a problem in terms of the proportionality of fundamental rights restrictions. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health should amend the regulation so that the most serious non-obligations to fundamental rights are imposed on persons entering the country who can be estimated to pose the greatest risk to the spread of covid-19 infections. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the proportionality of regulation can be improved by, for example, providing for basic rules in the law on countries of origin from which certification or testing requirements do not apply to future travellers. More detailed provisions on such countries could be adopted by Government decree.’ And that is exactly what the Committee on Social Affairs and Health did. In other words, even though this was not behind what the Constitutional Committee called a push, we did respect that content and spirit. I understand that there are different points of view here, how precise the reasons are to be followed for the various countries, but, as has been said, we have therefore followed the wishes of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But, Mr President, I would like to add a little more to this debate to the accuracy of our Constitution as to who can review these corona certificates. I myself am thinking mainly of the fact that, as Members of Parliament, we should also think about the sensible level of allocation of resources between our health care staff and the authorities in general. In my opinion and in the opinion of many of us in the Assembly, it would have been most reasonable to have given transport service providers the opportunity to check these corona certificates already in the country of origin, just as they do in many countries and as they are doing now on a voluntary basis for some operators. But here was Article 124 of the Constitution. very strict, first of all, that these interest rate certificates cannot be read as travel documents for which transport service providers would have sufficient expertise, inter alia, as to the extent to which the public health threat is caused by the absence of such a certificate. But another question that has also been raised by the experts in the Constitutional Committee is that transport service providers do not have the right, as it were, to prevent entry into Finland from Finnish citizens and also in accordance with the principle of free movement of the EU. In other words, if such corona certificates were not in accordance with our requirements, then the transport service providers would act contrary to this European spirit by blocking access to an aircraft, for example. But, Mr President, it does not have to be such a categorical matter, but it could also mean that the carrier could provide information on passenger interest rates to the health authority, so that the health resources could be allocated instead of checking the certificates, precisely to the measures for which the healthcare professional is required, and then, for example, when arriving in the country, directly to those persons who do not have these documents. In fact, I just want to raise a debate on the strict interpretation of Article 124 of the Constitution and all that is involved in this, on how sensible it will be for the final allocation of our limited resources. We all know that during the corona period treatment queues have grown and many people who need treatment have not dared to seek treatment, and then the lines of surgery have grown. We need the health resources to the places where care is needed, and that is precisely the expertise. At least I think that, under the guidance and supervision of the health authority, the transport service provider could quite well carry out this work. But I really hope that the following legislative proposals will reflect carefully on this, which makes sense the use of resources for the health and safety of our Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u48	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u49	Mr President! I think there has been a very good debate here on this issue, because it has also opened up to them from this report, which has been contradictory in the various groups in that Committee on Social Affairs and Health, as we have seen in the media, for example. I believe that what has been chafed has now been opened up here through this debate. However, according to the information I have received, I have understood that the National Institute for Health and Welfare has in some way blessed this alternative, which has now been chosen, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as has been mentioned here, has also blessed this. When it comes to what always happens if you do, there are two things that fight here: that we should get the diseases and viruses to stay out of Finland, and at the same time we should be able to open up. There is a contradiction, of course, but it is manageable by tailoring and by the fact that we have the legislation in order. Of course, as Mr Lindén said, it may make these guidelines very complicated. You said that you have seen that if you wanted to go to Norway now, it has been said that it is difficult to tell what needs to be, and that is what we need to learn from now. We cannot, therefore, set some limits that it is not communicable. We have to think about that communication, and we have a lot of communication professionals in how to get clear instructions. But I agree with Mr Lindén that clear guidelines must be and in every way they are not always. I think that Mr Autto has made very clear here that it is important, however, that we should get tourism to Finland and that Finland's fine regions should be exploited in this situation when there is a risk that the viruses will spread both here and then from here on out. It would therefore be good for us to consider this beautiful nature of Finland. Representative Lindén received good advice from Mr Auto that why go further in fishing when you have the opportunity to fish your own fish here in Finland. In any case, a good debate has taken place, and I believe that the committee has done a thorough job. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u50	Congressman Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u51	Madam President! As I listened to this discussion, I thought it might be worth going over a little more about how this has come about. It is absolutely necessary that this legislative amendment should now be introduced, because it has, of course, been the case at the Finnish and Swedish borders, for example, that testpoints have become congested, that additional test capacity has been bought from private firms and, as you can imagine, it is certainly not cheap when it is bought, so it is very important that this possibility is now in place in Finland that, once it has been sick or given vaccination, when there is a test certificate, border crossing should be made easier. Of course, the situation that has now taken place with regard to football tourists in St. Petersburg is very sad. Undoubtedly, there has been some surprise that when forced testing can be put into effect at the western border, it was not achieved at the eastern border. Let us hope that the deltarian has not been able to spread widely to Finland, as far as the situation is concerned. Mr President! With regard to this testing scheme, I would like to say that for a long time, of course, Finland worked well and sensibly on an ambitious level of health safety, that we tested all the people, but instead of Sweden demanding only that test certificate, it was actually reflected in the fact that, then, on the Finnish side, there was a reduction in the level of infection around the Swedish border. The fact that Finland has now tested everything from common funds has been health-safe, but it has, of course, led to the fact that the test sites have been very congested rather than simply demanding that test certificate before. As far as winter tourism is concerned, unfortunately, this proposal will not yet save it. This may give some indication that if everything went well, Finland would not then require the second test certificate from people. Of course, it is quite clear that if you come on a Christmas trip here for three or four days, it cannot be in quarantine all the way. But this law is fixed-term. We do not yet know what autumn will bring. Now, of course, it is important that the corona does not rise again or the delta virus does not expand in Finland, so that we really can carry out Christmas tourism and the winter season in this country. Of course, the trips are already being sold, so it is important that this is there, that there is some kind of trickery about what Finland is going to demand. But in fact we will only see in the autumn how the corona virus situation has developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u52	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u53	Mr President! Just a few more comments on this border-HE bill, which aims to prevent covid-19 virus and its various variants from entering the country in a situation where travel is gradually being opened up. I fully agree with Mr Lindén that it would certainly be clearer if everyone had the same model, but the problem is that it would simply not be possible in practice. If we open up any of this current situation — or even in the current situation — it is practically not entirely possible to test every passenger that comes through there. At the moment, all passengers who come as if from risky countries will be tested in practice and then tests from these slightly less risky countries will not be imposed. Now that this situation is still gradually changing and living, as has been said several times, it would not be possible to target the examination or testing of test certificates to all those who come to Finland, and therefore this risk-based approach is an absolutely necessary change here — unfortunately this is the case. Now it is up to the Government to decide who is allowed to come here to Finland, that is, how to open this travel now. Mr President! Finally, on this issue, which Mr Kulmuni has just touched upon, that is to say, this border with St Petersburg. It is, therefore, a question of not imposing mandatory tests, and it is a failure, at least in my opinion. What is more, of course, is that we have had a voluntary quarantine constantly, at the airport or at the border, in Finland all the time. As far as young people who have a Midsummer Party are concerned, surely each of us can put ourselves in the position of the person who does not necessarily think about the harm or spread of the disease in that situation to others. Then, on the other hand, we know that, as Mr Autto rightly pointed out here, if tourists to Lapland were to be quarantined throughout that period, it would in practice be a disaster for tourism. Mr President! That is why I personally think that perhaps it would be possible to find some form of intermission for this. That is, those who, for example, come from abroad to Lapland usually spend time in the same company under the leadership of the tour operator, and then, as it were, can be quarantined in one’s own group. It is likely to be already during travel if someone had the disease, in some way exposed, and so on. Perhaps this kind of arrangement could be reasonable. For Finns who come to Finland, of course, you would like to be able to rely on voluntary service, but it seems that this is not the case in all respects. Then again, the question of whether Finns and foreigners can be treated differently here is certainly a difficult constitutional reflection. Mr President! That brings me to the reflection which, in my opinion, Mr Kauma has had and started with great merit, namely how we can move on from this problem, that it is now being interpreted that the transport service operator will not be able to look at these test certificates or vaccine certificates before embarking on the means of transport. I myself think that it could at least be worth investigating whether a person belonging to the staff of a transport service provider could digitally enter that information into a device, but he would not be the authority that watches or makes decisions as to whether or not a person is allowed to enter the country, but that information would then be transmitted here to Finland, and that information would be interpreted by the authority to which it belongs, whether it is a person of the Border Guard or a person of health care from the municipality or hospital district to which this person is coming. This would avoid giving the public authority a role to the transport service provider, which is obviously the problem of Article 124 of the Constitution. Now that European test certificates and vaccine certificates are becoming more common and digitalization is becoming more common in this sense, and I hope that we will be able to find out what type of European model these certificates are and whether they have some type of electronic QR code, barcode or something like that, as it were, which the device itself interprets, I hope, in this context, that the government will also find out whether it is still possible, for example in the coming autumn or winter, to move on to this type of practice, thereby avoiding these constitutional problems. [The President knocks ] Mr President!
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u56	Thank you, and I'm sorry for the haste. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u57	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Raja-HE is on the table today, and one might say that it is a good thing that finally. First of all, it seemed that this left-wing government of Sanna Marin is not catching up, and now it seems that the left-wing government is not able to open the borders in a corona-proof way. Here, among other things, Mr Autto spoke well from this point of view of tourism, and I will come back to that point in a few words. The representative shall also: Far ago, this situation was described by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in relation to these green countries and, among other things, by the way in which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had raised this issue. I would therefore like to thank the government of Sanna Marin and the central chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Lohe, for having carried out the work of the committee which belongs to the committee, and the work which belongs to Parliament, for exercising the power which belongs to Parliament. The power belongs to the Finnish Parliament and not to one minister or ministry or one or two officials. It is up to Parliament to legislate and exercise its power. Thank you to the centre for defending this Parliament's position in a good way under the leadership of Chairman Salmon. Here we have mentioned the corona certificate and the corona passport. They have been on the agenda for a very long time. There would have been plenty of time for them to be done in peace last summer, last autumn, to prepare for the situation when it was known that there would be another wave, and it was known that it would then be possible to reopen. A good system could have been established in peace, such that we could have opened up this tourism and coming to Finland securely. That also applies to events of which, of course, cultural people have, quite rightly, crammed the left-wing government properly. Mr Autto raised important points in order to save tourism, which were also shared by Mr Kulmuni from downtown just now. I agree with you very much. We must be able to take that share of this pent-up people's need and desire for tourism. That is why we should be on this front, but, of course, in such a way that it is done in a corona-proof way. Of course, it will come to the point that if we put forward measures that are unreasonable and take too many resources, what is the significance of these measures if, in situations such as those seen at the eastern border, we act as we did. I would have expected the Minister for Health, Minister for Health, Krista Kiuru, to be here in Parliament to answer and tell me how this happened. It is completely irresponsible that the border was opened and allowed this deltavarian to cross by these passengers. I understand that these measures could have been taken there. It would have taken some time when the government had not prepared itself with the authorities, which I am surprised at myself, it was also well known what day they were going there when they were allowed to go, and it was just as well known that no one wanted to stay in Russia, that they would come back, and yet they were allowed to do so. Mr President, I would have expected Minister of Health Krista Kiuru to be here today when we talk about this border security, bearing responsibility for what happened on the eastern border, once it is quite possible that this delta will spread in such a way that events this summer are closing down. This is another big bill for Finnish employees, Finnish companies and Finnish taxpayers, if this summer too, could be said to be the only reason why we still have to catch up. Of course, the main responsibility here lies with individuals who have gone there, but yes, individuals, Finns, must be able to rely on the authorities to act on the instructions given to them. That is why I would have expected Minister Kiuru to be responsible for this event here as well. It seems that when those successes happen, then you are happy to talk about them, but when these very unpleasant and unfortunate events occur, then you are happy to look ahead. We should have the courage to look back and learn from them as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u58	Thank you. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u59	Mr President! Just a few comments on this debate: The first point that I draw attention to — and someone else has already drawn attention to it here — is that in this paragraph 2, which was now added to Article 16c and in which we then assess these areas by a regulation, the wording goes: ‘where the prevalence of the virus that has become infected with covid-19 does not pose a particular risk of spreading an epidemic’. That, in future, it cannot only look at the incidence rate, but must be known in that country about the risk of this virus variant and the risk it poses then to bring it with tourists to Finland. The second comment relates to the fact that I have quite clearly understood what Mr Multala said just now that, of course, work at airports and at other borders will be reduced for the so-called green countries, but the work that is now becoming a job instead of a prior certificate will probably be somewhat similar in number of minutes, and in these respects it will not be reduced, which means that there will be quite a lot of it. I think that Mr Kauma quite well and rightly raised and referred to the views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I myself calculated that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took a position on ten points. One, this period of validity, it put the so-called push behind it, and then perhaps the second strongest position relates to the risk-based nature of the countries, and then there were many other observations. I hope that you do not misunderstand me, because I do not mean to use words, but when the wording of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was that more stringent measures should be applied to the countries at risk, I do somehow feel that when there is a government proposal at the bottom and then it is said that more stringent measures should be applied to the countries at risk, then in fact what would be the case with such stronger measures compared to the starting point. After all, this matter was resolved, as PeV itself, by way of example, recommended that measures be relaxed for non-risk countries. It is certainly quite consistent with the fact that, even then, stronger measures will remain in the countries at risk, but they will not actually be made stronger. This may sound very much like phraseology now, but on this occasion I paid attention. As for the recent speech by Heinonen, the triumph of populism, when it is also Krista Kiuru's fault,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u60	Congressman Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u61	Mr President! I will take these electronic tools into this debate, i.e. the introduction of an entry notification application, which has been delayed in Finland. In other words, there would already be an application in Finland, if it were to be used at national level, but it would require strong guidance from the Ministry. For example, Europe has the EU Digital Passenger Locator Form, which is at least in Germany, Belgium and Italy. These tools could facilitate the entry process and also reduce the need for human labour at borders. And this is absolutely vital if we are to be able to allocate resources in the right way. Mr Lindén raised the issue of PeV's risk assessment. Yes, PeVik certainly has estimated that we should be able to secure the statutory services and understand that if all those resources are put there at the borders, then we will also be putting our statutory services at risk. But it is necessary to have uniform practices across Finland at all borders, so that it does not happen like it does on the eastern border, that you can then slip through a border station and pass through significant risk factors — that is, the same instructions. Nor can we go around border stations according to what is easier to get through. Mr President! At the end of the day, I will mention this timetable. We have the last week before the summer break. This border proposal has been long awaited, many months, and now this last week we are twisting this. The committees have had to do this in a very tight time frame, and there are many things that we might want to further clarify and evaluate, but the timetable does not allow that to happen. The Administrative Committee noted that the government's proposals for amending the Act on communicable diseases, which have involved a great deal of legal, practical and other issues to be clarified, have been submitted repeatedly to Parliament as a matter of urgency. There has also been repeated reference to the prevention of the covid-19 epidemic and the prevention of the spread of the disease. According to the Administrative Committee, it should be possible to submit the Government's proposals to Parliament, especially when a reasonable period of preparation has been available, so that Parliament's committees are in a position to deal properly with the legislative proposals in the ordinary parliamentary session schedule. I agree very well with this view of the Administrative Committee. Yes, in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u62	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 17/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Congressman Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u63	Mr President! After all, this draft secondary legislation was an extension of the deadline, which is to allow for a longer transitional period, because the systems are not ready, and that is justifiable. In this context, however, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also raised this lack of clarity in the regulation of pharmaceutical research and the regulation of secondary medicine and the need for a comprehensive legislative reform so that operators on the ground know what law is applicable at any time — there are certain contradictions between them. It was also called for in the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and I too would like to see attention paid to this at the Ministry, and this is being speeded up, because it is, of course, about the use of patient data, but at the same time also about our important science and research, that we should remain at the forefront of international science and research, that we should be able to participate in pharmaceutical studies that study the best treatments, and that we will also be able to make the most recent treatments available to our residents at the earliest possible stage, in the interests of safety, of course. But this is a very important issue for both hospitals and universities, and I hope that this will be given special attention now in the Ministry and that these legislative reforms will be speeded up.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u64	Thank you. - Congressman Kempp, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u65	Mr President! I have noted that information security automation and information management have proved challenging to regulate strictly by law. On the one hand, information security should be predictable, and on the other hand it is impossible to predict. I already noticed this when I was working at Päijät-Häme in the renewal of social and health services by information management as a whole. There is now a law on the table that has to be withdrawn in relation to information security due to the impossible schedule of the original law. It is good to have the courage to make changes when the situation is found challenging. The proposal proposes to amend the transitional provision of the secondary legislation by extending by one year the requirements required for a secure operating environment of the law. In this case, the requirements will only apply next May, even if they should already be in force at this point. It must be clear at this point that the development and audit of operating environments has not progressed as planned. According to the arguments put forward by the Government, there are many understandable reasons for this, in my view. The development of knowledge management requires good information security, but changes in information technology are always about changes not only in machines but also in people's operating culture, and it requires time and continuous long-term development. Once again, we learn from this law that, in the field of information management and information security, development work must be carried out in a long-term and determined manner, financing and regulating, in particular, social and health services. Otherwise, for example, it is impossible to regulate information security strictly by law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u66	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u67	Mr President! This law is very important for Finnish research. Social and health care, now that the new structure is in the process of being reformed, needs precisely that substantive reform, which must be led by information and based on facts. And this secondary law brings a huge amount of information to Finland and the effectiveness of treatments in general, as long as it is able to use it specifically in this context. This law has in itself been expected. There has also been criticism of this, and now we have to make some changes to the timetable. I agree with what has been said here, that every time there are problems, they should also be corrected, and there have now been problems with this timetable. However, just as Mr Laiho has rightly said here, this may also require more specific reasons in the near future, that the law should be corrected so that it actually increases the effectiveness of both treatments and various services. In this we need researched data and we need samples and we need data that people, for example, have collected or collected, then also make use of to increase the effectiveness of services. Effectiveness is one – one can say that the only ethically sustainable – means to allocate our limited resources and correctly target the services that Finland has the opportunity to provide to citizens. That is why this law is extremely important, but it is still a small one to be developed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u68	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 11/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — I shall open the general discussion. Congressman Kempp, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-29-ps-85.u69	Mr President! This is a law that promotes diversity and regional policy — that is how I see it. The proposal provides for a new law laying down the criteria for the availability of State services and for the placement of activities, which repeals the existing law on the jurisdiction to invest State services and activities. The aim is, of course, to increase the regional presence of the State and reform its regulatory framework to reflect the current operating environment and its foreseeable changes. With interest, we have seen that many jobs in the state are also well placed to work at a distance. I think it is very important that the organisation of the government's tasks is increasingly based on the diversity and the independence that smart technology allows, and I believe that the promotion of this law has also been thought of. It is intended that planning on the availability of services and the location of central government units and functions will be based more strongly on the needs and benefits of the regional presence of the State. The presence of the state plays an undeniable role in the vitality of our provinces, in the promotion of security and also in the promotion of the state's competitiveness as an employer. I consider it essential that the services of the agencies are fully available throughout Finland, which must also be taken into account in the coverage and service capacity of the offices and offices required for the proper management of the new agency's diverse remit. Some of the population do not necessarily have the necessary user skills or equipment for e-services, and this, of course, must also be thought of when promoting this law. Also, the decrease in functional capacity due to, for example, ageing or illness makes self-employment more difficult and requires the prospect and presence of state activities throughout Finland. These issues should also be taken into account in the promotion of this law. — Thank you, President.
