ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u1	In this context, I would like to point out from yesterday's decision of the Council of Presidents that, based on the recommendation of the occupational doctor, facial masks will also be used on the podium from this day on. That is also what I would like to inform you on this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u2	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Good parliamentary days have just been opened, ladies and gentlemen, and thank the President for the valuable words that have just been spoken for democracy at the opening of these parliaments. The first bill of these Parliaments concerns matters of the Church, which I, as Minister of Church Affairs, may now present to you. As you know, during the corona virus epidemic, the government has wanted to ensure the functioning of various sectors of society in a variety of ways in order to sustain adaptation and resilience during the crisis. Now is the government’s proposal to amend the church law so that the institutions of the Evangelical Lutheran Church could also hold their meetings electronically. Mr President! The constitutional basis of the Evangelical Lutheran Church is set out in Article 76 of the Constitution, which provides for the order and administration of the church in the Church Act. The church has the exclusive right to propose a church law on everything that applies only to the church's own affairs, and of course to amend and repeal the church law. Parliament's role is either to accept or reject the motion. According to the current church law, the quorum of church institutions requires the presence of members at the actual meeting place. Thus, the law does not allow the institutions to meet electronically, which in many other areas of society we have inevitably become accustomed to over the past year. The church government can only issue orders derogating from the church law on the organisation of church administration under exceptional circumstances, i.e. only if the powers under the Emergency Act were introduced. Since this is not the case today, the situation is different from last spring, when during exceptional circumstances this possibility was also used within the church in congregations, congregational groups and the church government, where institutional meetings could then be arranged electronically. Even in the church, the experiences were good. The institutions were able to carry out their duties by electronic means and in a flexible manner without risk to the health of the decision-makers. Exceptional conditions, as we remember, were identified as ending in June 2020 — and hopefully we will not have to return to them and keep the disease under control — but, as we know, although it is not the time for exceptional circumstances, the risks of human gathering have not yet been eliminated. That is what we see here in our joint sitting, too, from the few ranks and from colleagues with masks. The obligation to attend meetings of church institutions has been perceived to be problematic in the current situation, when the number of close contacts should rather be reduced, in fact, to get and reduce them to a minimum. For example, the joint church council of the Helsinki Parish Union consists of 91 members, 61 in Espoo and 51 in Vantaa. In order to resolve the situation that has been identified as a national challenge, the Council has now proposed an urgent amendment of the church law in line with the present proposal. Mr President! The Council proposal submitted by the Government to the Parliament proposes to amend the provisions on the decision-making and quorum of the institutions of the church, parish union, diocese and central government so that the institutions can hold meetings electronically in the future directly on the basis of the Church Act and the organisation of electronic meetings would no longer require the introduction of the powers of the Emergency Act. Of course, holding a meeting would require that the members of the institution should be in equal contact with one another in terms of vision and voice. Of course, behind all this legislative change is the desire to protect the health safety of church members and to promote the functioning of church institutions even during the time of the virus. The proposal also aims to make decision-making in the congregations and dioceses of long distances more flexible, thereby also contributing to the achievement of the church’s climate goals by reducing travel from the meeting and, of course, reducing the costs of travelling. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that the activities of spiritual communities, even at such an exceptional time, provide people with a social framework and a community that builds trust, activates people into social activity and sees well those who are otherwise at risk of being left out. This will support the capacity of people and thus society as a whole to cope with disturbances.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u4	Congressman Kinnunen. — You can talk from your own place or from a podium, but both on a mask.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u5	Madam President, thank you very much for your speech at the opening, in which you called for commitment, awareness and responsibility. These things have also been carried out by the church during this corona when people have longed for security in the midst of uncertain times. Thank you, Minister Saarikko, for the clear presentation of this legislative amendment. As the Minister said, the Church Act has proved problematic in the exceptional circumstances of the corona. Of this, congregational representatives have been in contact throughout the corona period. Church councils and councils and other institutions in the parishes have only been able to make decisions in attendance at the meeting place. It hasn't always been easy. This legislative reform will allow electronic meetings to be held through an appropriate information system or videoconferencing system. Thank you very much, Minister, for taking this change forward a great deal now, because this will make church decision-making a great deal easier. This change of law secures the functioning of the church’s various authorities and institutions in the midst of prolonged abnormal circumstances of the corona. It will also safeguard it during other future crises and abnormal circumstances. It will also make the work of councils and councils and other bodies more efficient and flexible under normal conditions. A condition for an electronic meeting is equal access to the eyes and sounds of those present. Church and parish officials should ensure that confidential information is not available to outsiders. Mr President! For example, because of congregational alliances, the regional size of congregations has grown recently. Of course, in a sparsely populated area, congregations have long been very extensive in their territories. In particular, the proposal promotes and makes the decision-making administration of the parishes and dioceses of long distances more flexible. At the same time, the presentation contributes to the achievement of the church’s climate goals by reducing travel and travel expenses from meetings. Spiritual communities have provided security during the corona era. That is also why the proposal is very necessary and worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u6	On this point, I too am a little frozen: I would like to remind you of the security intervals, i.e. the two-metre safety intervals at the perm. And let's talk about those group-specific places, and the speeches will be used to open these laptops themselves and not go to their own place. Three minutes, indeed, permanence, and given these security distances. — We will continue the debate. Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u7	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, it got a little confused that whatever these instructions are. But thank you to the Minister for presenting this law and, of course, it is important that this is now reasonably quick — or let us say as quickly as possible — to move the matter forward on the part of the church administration. As the Minister has said here, the autonomy of the Church requires that legislative amendments come from the Council and, in that sense, these similar changes that we have made, in terms of the same kind of practice of meeting the laws of communities and associations and companies, have now been delayed, because there is this administrative divergence. It is indeed important to take into account the fact that much older people are involved in the administration of the congregations, many of whom are at risk, and that this legislation has been expected and hoped that it will be completed quickly. And then, of course, in practice, it has already posed problems, as the Minister said there, for example, in the practice of meetings of institutions where there should have been a large number of people, even greater than the existing restrictions on the ground. Of course, it is important to ensure that there is equal access to visual and audio communications and, of course, that, if there is confidential information, it is not available to outsiders. In this respect, it can be said that this very much corresponds to what we have also had to deal with on that side of Community law. Madam President! This proposal does indeed allow for this electronic gathering, and the need for changes to the quorum of the institutions must then also be taken into account and then the way in which the elections can be conducted in accordance with the rules governing it. And perhaps you could say that this problem does not only apply now to the congregations, but also to these associations, which have also had to consider how different elections are to be held, where there are, for example, several different options to choose from, so that, of course, we would hope that we would also find different types of voting tools in the organisation field. In this context, I would also like to emphasise the role of churches and parishes as an important background for Finnish society. In this situation, where we are now, it is important that, for example, parish food aid, deaconia, care for the weak, prayer, and walking alongside the congregation, are:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u8	Congressman Holopainen, Hanna.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u9	Mr President! We are still in a pandemic situation and, of course, we must combat this corona, but we must also ensure that the functions of society are running. And in Finland this has been very successful: the decision-making process and others have been able to work almost normally, but with exceptional arrangements, both here in Parliament and at other levels of decision-making. Now we are dealing with the reform of the church law in order to ensure that the church is also able to operate in this pandemic situation. As has been said here earlier, when the definition of exceptional circumstances was fulfilled, the church was able to meet at a distance and secure this decision-making security, but now the emergency conditions have ended, but the pandemic situation continues, and now changes to this legislation are needed. In the spring, we already made changes to the municipal law, which made it possible for municipal decision-making to be extended to include remote meetings and also to take advantage of hybrid meetings, and it is now very important that this same opportunity be secured in the church institutions as well. Of course, there are a very large number of people in Finland who participate in church democracy, and that is a great thing. Churches do important work, as has been mentioned here in previous speeches, and the church administration includes a large number of citizens participating in decision-making, and it is, of course, important that, even under pandemic conditions, they can continue to do so safely. This has, of course, become a lot of feedback, that this has been expected and, unfortunately, here, for a number of different reasons, then we are taking this decision. I am sure it will then be great that this bill will be dealt with as a matter of urgency and then we will be able to continue this normal activity in the church as well and at the same time secure the rejection and repression of the pandemic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u10	Congressman Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u12	Congressman Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u13	Madam President! Indeed, it is extremely important that these meetings can be held electronically in the decision-making bodies of the church and in the decision-making bodies of the congregations in the future and that this digital decision-making and these procedures can also be achieved there on the part of the church administration. This time is difficult for ecclesiastical and spiritual work and activity in many ways. There is no physical participation in the services of the people. These limitations apply to the church and other religious communities in the same way as to the rest of society, and that is, of course, the way it should be, but it is good for us to recognise that this activity has a powerful and supportive role for people in many ways and, as it were, its lack in its traditional form among us at the moment may make it more difficult for people to cope with this so-called corona fatigue. Now that the minister for ecclesiastical affairs is here, I would have asked about another matter relating to this whole. After all, now that the corona period has made it difficult to organise all kinds of other events, the organisation of events organised by religious communities, which are of considerable economic importance to these communities, has been impossible during this pandemic and epidemic, in fact, throughout the country, and in practice these large religious events have not been organised, and these communities of background are therefore in difficulty. Has any consideration been given to helping these communities?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u14	Congressman Squirrel.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u15	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for the swift introduction of the law here in Parliament. This is a good performance, the footprints of which should also be followed in government structures other than church structures. Although man also longs for physical association, these distant meetings have come to stay, and there are good experiences in the church, both in central government, congregations, and congregational associations. That is where Mr Essayah raised this electronic voting tool. I would like to inform you that many organisations have already been quite successful in doing so, for example, so that elections can be held and those who give the voice can remain secret, so that is where the channels are. I don't know if they're still secure, but at least in some organizations they use them. This is also important for the economy and the climate. That is where Mr Kurvinen raised these economic issues and wondered that parish boundaries would go along with municipal boundaries. This is not the case everywhere. For example, I come from the chapel church, which is the chapel church of Saarijärvi, and we had it reasonably successfully, but the distances are long. And when I say that this was reasonably successful, this also means, of course, that at services such as services, when physically held, the same vicar was able to preach in several places in succession. It took a lot of getting used to, but it makes sense to have vacations as well. And when it's bad, there's something good: After all, now this corona pandemic has resulted in the Facebook broadcasts of parishes, and these have been very popular. For example, a little one. Many people have moved from the municipality of Kivijärvi to the world, and the number of followers is many times higher for normal worship, when you feel that even though Espoo can be there in its own home church in Kivijärvi. I would also like to continue this matter once this pandemic plague has been brought to an end. To conclude this speech, I would like to make it clear that, in order for these meetings and other online activities to be carried out, the connections must be in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u16	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u17	Mr President! We have here wished each other a good opening of the Parliaments, and you, as President of the Republic, at the solemn ceremony a moment ago with the President of the Republic, opened these parliaments from the podium, but I am sure you will agree with that view if I say that the atmosphere was somewhat flattened, and this was, of course, a very different situation. For us, this corona virus is a common pain for the nation as a whole, and this teleworking and also the distant opening of the parliament now had to take place in this form. It is quite understandable that, in the case of the church too, meetings in the form of teleworking should be made possible, as is the case in society today, but I would like to warn you that I hope these remote meetings will not become the custom of the country. There is clearly a situation where, of course, we have a need and opportunities for remote access. Of course, they offer a new dimension, for example, making it easier for an international guest to speak, but it is true that people meet each other, even if in a smaller form, as is now the case in this Chamber, it is crucially valuable. I have had experience last week when there was a meeting of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg and I myself participated as the only representative of the Finnish Parliament. I can tell you that the difference was totally large to be present at the meeting — but there were more than a hundred Members of Parliament — than those colleagues who were forced to stay in the country and who were virtually out of the process in which we were involved. The same applies to the church, including church meetings. It is most natural in the future to try to ensure that this is a temporary situation, that these matters are handled at a distance. It usually leads to power being concentrated on those who prepare and conduct those meetings. Those who are not physically present are excluded, and this interaction, which human proximity gives, is, however, how people must make decisions together and also work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u18	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u19	Mr President! For my part, I would also like to thank my fellow Members and the President and the President for their opening speeches. It was not possible to listen to them here, but with the so-called corridor colleague and Mr Ovaska, we listened at the diner at intervals of security and distance. It is indeed necessary to build a bridge in this time period, and it is also needed instead of different walls and confrontations, but in this amendment to the church law it is important that this electronic practice is now being implemented. After all, we had a government proposal in the Administrative Committee last spring on 19/2019, which would have had a larger reform of the church law, which also had electronic practices ahead of us, but it was stated that it still needs to be re-examined by the Council, and Parliament expects it to come as a new proposal from the Council, but it is very important that these electronic practices are now able to move forward in this regard and do not need to wait for the Council's decisions. The certainty of decision-making, the fact that decision-making is guaranteed in all situations, is absolutely central to democracy, and the churches and churches have, of course, turned to different systems in large meeting rooms, which have then mainly been churches, and have then taken decisions. Mr Kalmari has raised the issue of telecommunications, and they are very important because it is known that in this way decisions are dispersed in remote connections in terms of people being in different areas, in different parts of the world. The strength of our Finnish society is that we have such communication connections and we can run heavy processes with them, but it also requires us to secure and guarantee them so that they also work. But the necessary and good proposal, and I hope that in this respect we will also make rapid progress on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u20	We've almost spent the time, half an hour of what's reserved for this. But let us take the floor again, Mr Kalmari, and then Minister. — Mr Kalmari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u21	Thank you, Madam President. And it's really nice to be here in Parliament together with you. Just briefly on this economic issue — although it is probably the decision-making process of the church — I want the minister to know that when these parishes come together, there will be very many cemeteries in the chapel churches to attend to. For example, our chapel congregation has seven of them. When the money comes only according to the number of persons, this is a heavy burden, and I would also like to inform the minister responsible for church affairs: when you engage in dealings, these issues could be considered as a question of justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u22	Minister Saarikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u23	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your comments. I would like to take this opportunity to answer perhaps a little broader church questions in connection with this presentation. First of all, there was reference in the speeches to the Church Act and its need for reform. That reform work is indeed going on at the Council, and the goal is that this updated church law should come to the committee for the autumn session of Parliament. Then the corona time was raised even more widely within the church and various denominations. I would like to express my thanks for the responsibility of the various religious communities in the mainstream, the main ones that have complied with the corona restrictions. In particular, the Evangelical Lutheran Church, as the largest and most important actor in Finland, has handled matters in a responsible manner. That gesture is not insignificant. Otherwise, for example, with regard to the restrictions on the Act on communicable diseases being discussed here in Parliament and the role of religious communities, even from the point of view of religious freedom, we had a good so-called round table with several religious communities, and I feel that our interaction, from this government and the Ministry of Education and Culture, has been quite effective. Then, ladies and gentlemen, you raised the economic situation in the congregations. EUR 117 million is allocated annually to the social functions of the Evangelical Lutheran Church and the church. And yes, I have the same concern as more representatives here: the financial situation of many congregations is difficult. And structural changes have been considered. It is also clear that the costs related solely to the premises are very high in these valuable church heritage sites. During the time of Korona, it was this remarkable social work of the church, the human encountering work even in exceptional circumstances. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u24	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Haatainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u25	Mr President! The Ministry of Employment and the Economy has prepared a proposal to amend the Act on Procurement, the Act on Procurement in Special Areas, Article 47 of the Law on Defence and Security Procurement and Article 6b of the Criminal Code. The amendments to the Procurement Act and to the Procurement Act in specific sectors are mainly technical corrections and clarifications. Most of the changes are due to the correction of the gaps and wordings found in the European Commission’s audit to better reflect the wording of the Directive. This proposal improves the right of contracting entities to information on the suitability of tenderers and their subcontractors, thereby contributing to the fight against the shadow economy in public procurement. In addition, the use of Hilma's e-procurement system and access to statistical information on procurement will be extended. The proposal specifies the regulatory framework for the framework agreement in such a way as to allow for an appropriate way of purchasing products and services within the framework arrangements, taking into account the needs of contracting entities for change. Amendments to the Defence and Security Procurement Act and to the Criminal Records Act are subject to textual changes. These laws are meant to enter into force 1. 1 March this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u26	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u27	Madam President! As we have heard, this proposal proposes to amend the law on public procurement and concessions, and the main aim of the proposal is to introduce the clarifications required by the Commission and to correct certain other technical errors. Mr President! Public procurement has the potential to have a significant positive regional economic impact on business growth and employment. Exploiting the market, fair competition and reducing public economic activity are key factors in achieving a state of will. Ensuring the balance of public finances is important and ensuring the functioning of the market is a key element of economic sustainability. The Procurement Act strongly directs the division of EU procurements into parts, for example. The Procurement Act states that where a contracting entity does not split a contract into lots, it shall state the reasons for not sharing in the procurement documents, the procurement decision or a separate report on the procurement procedure. Mr President! Many contracting entities across Finland have earned their earnings, for example in food purchases, by dividing the procurements into lots. For example, some contracting entities have made it possible for a company to offer its products according to its capacity only for the needs of a single school kitchen. Furthermore, supply has not been required throughout the year but during the harvest season. Public procurement can only be achieved through a vibrant market. A viable market and its development must be at the heart of public procurement, and it is essential that the public sector recognises its responsibility for the functioning of the market and its role in promoting fair competition. Finally, the public sector cannot succeed alone without companies in the provision of services. In general, the use of the market produces a good result for taxpayers. Mr President! I support the clarifications and technical amendments to the law contained in the proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u28	Congressman Squirrel.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u29	Madam President! Now that we are on the way to municipal elections, I would like to see more public procurement to support the success of nearby areas in the debate, making the money run around. A good example of this is the food purchases raised by Mr Östman, which already have a great deal of experience in how this can be done if there is a will to use local food, organic food. These criteria can be recorded in the procurement. For example, it may be required that the bread must be made on the same day or that the peeling of potatoes must not exceed a certain amount of time, or that other quality criteria may be put in place, for example, that the berries should be used unheated, so that imported berries which have been irrigated with sewage are not suitable for the purchase. But I would also like to point out that energy decisions have a very important role to play. We do not have to send money from the municipalities to Russian chippers or oil sheiks in the Middle East, but we can leave that money around. And I would now like to ensure from the Minister that, just as in the past, this law does not apply to the supply of energy or the fuel needed to produce it, as has been the case in the past, i.e. that matters that are important for security of supply can be carried out by way of a competitive tendering procedure, or this procurement law — of course, it must be sensibly put to the competition, but so that the procurement law can continue to be carried out by way of an overall advantage?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u30	And Minister Haatainen, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u31	Mr President! Thank you for those contributions. Indeed, these performances do not contain any major changes. These are clarifications to this practice, and this will also extend the use of Hilma, this electronic system. These questions were raised here as to whether, for example, local and organic food can be obtained in schools through the procurement process. It is a matter of purchasing competence, and in this kingdom there has been a lot of cooperation both with the government and with the contracting entity of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, in which information on these procurements is transferred to the municipal authorities in charge of procurement processes, that they are able to make these tenders in the right way. So much is a question of how this instrument, the method, is used. After all, the objective is that whoever acquires and buys gets what he wants, but the process goes in such a way that all tenderers have equal opportunities to participate in that competitive situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u32	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, to which the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — — — — Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u33	Mr President! In accordance with the Government Programme, this proposal proposes to amend the seasonal labour law. This seasonal labour law applies to seasonal employment in agriculture and tourism. The most important change is that the possibility for a seasonal worker to change employer here in Finland is now facilitated by this legislation. Since the entry into force of this current seasonal labour law — it entered into force in 2018 — foreign seasonal workers have been linked to their seasonal work permit, that contract, the printed employer. However, this is not in the interest of seasonal workers or employers either. Before 2018, seasonal workers, for example in agriculture, were able to move freely from one farm to another depending on how the crop varieties matured, i.e. according to its harvest. This seasonal labour law is linked to the EU's seasonal labour directive, but in due course it appears that not all these flexibility opportunities provided by this directive were used. As a result, this seasonal labour law, especially in the agricultural and horticultural sectors, has caused understandable annoyance, and I too, as a minister, have been contacted on many occasions. This proposal would now reduce the administrative burden on employers, i.e. every seasonal worker who comes to work at the same time and for a similar job would no longer have to fill out and send the form separately, but would be able to provide the information at one time for all seasonal workers. The return of seasonal workers, i.e. return to Finland, would also be facilitated. They go around, the same employees come from summer to summer to work for the same employer, same farms, so such a seasonal worker would no longer have to present such an explanation of the conditions of work. The Finnish Immigration Service has, therefore, already examined the conditions for this employer to act as an employer in accordance with the requirements of the law, which means that this has already been recognised as valid. Mr President! This proposal relies on the development of the Finnish Immigration Service's information system. This so-called UMA system is being developed as part of the development of labour migration systems. There are a great many of these areas of development, that is, the measures that are needed, and it will also take time for this change. I personally hope and expect that the changes in the information system required by this proposal will be essentially in place when the law comes into force, which is, I hope, now before this coming harvest. Finally, this proposal also takes account of the prevention of the exploitation of foreign labour. The penalties imposed on such a fraudulent employer would now be specified in such a way that the sanctions would in practice be better used for this type of operational use. Some of the amendments to the Aliens Act on the prevention of the exploitation of foreign labour are therefore also used here in seasonal work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u34	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u35	Madam President! The government has done the right thing. Of course, this has already been demonstrated by the corona crisis, but in particular this problem has already been known, and to a lesser extent we have not really had the interest of the domestic labour force to take up these seasonal jobs, and so we may already be able to consider it important, even in terms of security of supply, that these agricultural work can nevertheless be carried out in such a way that the harvest can be secured. At the same time, however, it is also necessary to promote the development of paths of interest in work in Finland, and there are good models of these that young people take over the farm in a way. There is also the possibility of different activities and, therefore, coordination and promotion of its training is important, not forgotten. It is not that there is only one solution. But the real thing is that this difficulty with the change of employer is real. In our case, the crop situation varies from farm to farm, and it is very confusing that we have not been able to move to a neighbouring farm as an employee. It is right that this should be pursued and that it should be possible for unnecessary bureaucracy to be dismantled if it comes again. However, I would like to maintain that, if there has been a change of ownership in the company where you have previously worked, the conditions of that company would be checked anyway so that there would not be such a possibility that those conditions would not be as good as they used to be. When the number of Finns was higher in seasonal work last summer, these notifications related to housing and conditions increased considerably. In other words, when the seasonal worker has a very high level of independent legal protection, this abuse has unfortunately been very arrogant and submissive in some cases, and in that sense we are going in the right direction. I would like to draw attention to a few points. This should perhaps be accompanied by a stronger approach, and I would point out that the right of action of the trade union, together with the criminalisation of underpaid labour, is a common family and should be promoted. However, I consider it a possible problem for these workers to be employed by temporary workers in Finland. The problem can arise at that point in the event of these abuses. After all, in these agricultural jobs, the entrepreneur is physically in it and cannot disappear, but this time, when we have underpaid in Finland for foreign labour, which then also puts Finnish entrepreneurs in an unfair position in the competitive setting, we have too much at the moment that when these deficits remain, the entrepreneur is nowhere to be found. And now, if you hit this and allow this kind of tool in between, that agency worker can disappear, then, in a way, this hiring of seasonal workers will probably shift mainly — this is my prediction — to these very rental and employer companies, and this will further reduce the administrative burden of the basic entrepreneur, which this legislation is already subject to. And what's especially important. These processing fees and resources for the Finnish Immigration Service and that, of course, this will not be the way to deal with them more quickly. It is then always a matter for governments to make it possible in their budget to have sufficient resources. Oversight must be up-to-date, of course it cannot be ignored in any way. For the most part, this is a particularly good step for these seasonal workers from third countries as well as for the agricultural sector in order to get seasonal workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u36	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u37	Mr President! For a long time now, the frame of seasonal agricultural labour has been formed by foreign workers, who have usually been around 16,000 in Finland in the summer, although unfortunately less in the summer. Last year, many farmers had to take an intermediate year in the cultivation of crops requiring a high level of seasonal labour and significantly reduce the cultivation of those crops. Spring and summer seasonal work must be done on time this year too. The picking of berries must also go smoothly. It is very important to cut red tape and to get seasonal workers more smoothly into the country. With this government proposal, admission will be made easier on an important point. The return of a seasonal worker to the same job as the former employer for which he has previously been granted a permit for seasonal work will be facilitated so that the seasonal worker does not have to present a comprehensive study of the conditions and working conditions required by the law. It is also important to reduce the administrative burden on the employer in relation to the reporting of employee information. The Government's proposal now under discussion will also make the use of seasonal labour more flexible. Foreign workers should be able to change employers, which promotes the efficient use of the labour force and is therefore important to the employer, but also to improve their earnings and legal status.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u38	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u39	Madam President! The proposal aims to make it easier for a seasonal worker from outside the EU to change employer. Last spring we discussed a similar law resulting from a corona pandemic, which temporarily amended the Aliens Act and the Act on the entry and residence of seasonal workers. In agriculture, especially during the harvest period, the share of foreign workers as employees in berry picking and other similar jobs is very high. Most of these people are seasonal workers. They come to the country, work and leave the country. They will not burden social security and services and will not remain in the country after the job has ended. Countries of origin include Ukraine, Belarus, Thailand, Russia. Less people come from the Baltic and Poland within the EU. True Finns do not oppose seasonal workers. Their labour input is beneficial, and it generates taxes, i.e. it is a completely different matter, both economically and in other respects, as well as for a person who stays in the country with any residence permit and puts a burden on social security and the service structure. However, we recognise the wider problem of seasonal labour and have tried to raise issues such as security of supply. It does not seem reasonable that so much of our food supply is dependent on foreign workers. This does not seem to worry the other parties, which I find a little miraculous.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u42	Congressman Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u43	Mr President! I would be very interested to know whether the government intends to resolve this issue of the labour force of berry and other farms or whether the path chosen is that the crop will continue to be planted and harvested by foreign workers. Indeed, this is also a question of security of supply. Last summer, there must have been a record number of Finnish workers working on farms, but the biggest factor likely was that Finns wanted to be there to support farmers and do their part to cope with the labour shortage caused by the interest rate on farms. What is the government going to do to keep Finnish workers working, not automatically labour from abroad, such as Ukraine? Then those jobs will never even come for the Finns. It is quite simple that this use of foreign labour is not. How do we actually control working conditions or prevent the informal economy? Last summer I received a worrying lot of feedback that Ukrainians were paid their wages directly in hand and, for example, the preparation for the corona was very poor, as were working conditions. They do not then attract Finns to work on farms. I would point out that not all farms are working badly, but those who do are ruining the reputation of others. Mr President! In fact, by directing farms to use foreign labour, a spiral is created. Therefore, I would see that solutions should be found to make the sector more attractive to Finns and to make the Finnish workforce more acceptable to farmers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u44	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u45	Mr President! The pandemic has made it difficult for foreign seasonal workers to enter the country. This has caused concern to the agricultural sector. However, I think it is worth considering whether it is very profitable to have a foreign labour force do agricultural work at the moment. As a priority, the government should consider measures to guide students, the unemployed and laid-off Finns to work on farms, especially during a pandemic — such as training or various incentives — and to ensure that the work of the coming period is completed. In view of the objective of combating the exploitation of foreign workers, reducing controls on returning workers may facilitate abuse. As far as Article 20 is concerned, the main content of the proposed sanctions against the employer is that they are hardly a deterrent when the decision not to grant permits can be taken for a maximum period of six months. This period should be clearly longer.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u46	Congressman Östman, gone. — Representative Holopainen, Hanna.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u47	Mr President! Foreign seasonal workers are a significant and necessary labour reserve in Finland, especially in the agricultural sector. The fight against the epidemic of interest last spring made it difficult for people to move and also for seasonal workers to enter the country. This caused widespread concern in the agricultural sector and raised a lively debate on both the conditions under which agriculture operates and our security of supply. In spring, temporary changes were made to the seasonal labour law, which ensured the availability of seasonal labour. At the same time, a wide range of campaigns were launched to attract Finns to seasonal agricultural work, and in part this also happened. However, the needs of seasonal labour in the agricultural sector are considerable and the need is for a relatively short period of time, so it is quite unlikely that without foreign seasonal labour in Finland these tasks would be carried out, even if the opposition proclaims it loudly in this regard. The fact is that we will continue to need seasonal labour from outside the borders, and it makes sense for us to modify the operating conditions of our legislation in this direction, as is now being done in this government proposal. The aim of the proposal is to make it easier for a seasonal worker to change employer and to make the use of seasonal labour more flexible also from the employer’s point of view. At the same time, it is important to add strong measures to combat the exploitation of this foreign labour force, and the government has an extensive programme of measures to this end, one of which we will also be discussing today in this follow-up proposal. However, as a member of the Administrative Committee, I would like to add my voice to the request made by the chairman of the committee, Mr Purra, that this government proposal should also be submitted to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u48	I would like to ask the representative whether there is a clear support for this proposal. Okay. — And now, Mr Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u52	Congressman Eskelinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u53	Mr President! It was no surprise that this is now going to the immigration debate, and this is seen as a negative issue, and it is suspected that this is where another automatic is being built for the foreign labour force. I think there are only positive things here. Last summer, farms and berry farms struggled to survive during the corona period, and then, with special and exceptional legislation, they were made easier. Now this legislation will be able to continue to safeguard the future of these berry and farm holdings. In both cases, they have the greatest need for the seasonal workforce, it is three to nine months and this legislation will also make it easier for workers to move. As a godfather, I have the river Suonen, which has 3,000 berry pickers, 90 per cent of whom are foreign workers. And last summer, of course, it was great that efforts were made to campaign for the domestic workforce and some help was received, but when it comes to seasonal labour, this is the biggest problem. All in all, agriculture and the berry sector have the 25,000 seasonal workers, and I think it is important that this is really being tackled and de-bureaucratic. In particular, there is the possibility of moving to another employer, and those who have been in the country in the past, then, with less bureaucracy, will be able to come to work the next summer — a great thing. And, of course, it is also important that this prevention of the exploitation of foreign labour be addressed. A good package, which will now calm the future of our agriculture and berry farms next summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u54	And here too we have spent about half an hour of this which was taken. Let us take Mr Norrback here and then the Minister. — Congressman Norrback, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u55	Irade the Talman! När man kommer från Närpes vet man betydelsen av utländsk arbetskraft för hela samhället. Regeringens proposition om tredjelandsmedborgares inresa och vistelse är en viktig fråga, speciellt för de som är verksamma inom primärnäringarna. Inte minst förra sommaren visade det rauh för oss. Vi behöver den utländska arbetskraften för att klara av vis arbetstoppar inom primärnäringarna. Det har framkommit i många talturer rai i dag. Att nu tillgången skulle bli flexiblare är av stor betydelse för livsmedelsförsörsörjningen. Också det att användningen av arbetskraften i oika uppgifter underlättas är en viktig sak för under.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u56	Mr President! It has been said here that these farms now have workers from outside the EU, quite a lot of those from Ukraine. Even in the '70s, when I did summer jobs in strawberry farms, I remember that there were students and schoolchildren working there. But since the Soviet Union broke down in the early '90s, then slowly the farms have become workers from these countries. And of course it is a question of the need for labour for the farms as well. It is also true that this sector has grown a lot and needs a considerable amount of labour at different stages of the harvest. But to these questions: How to encourage Finns to do this work next summer – the interest rate will certainly continue: Last summer, a campaign was launched in the TE administration to encourage Finnish young people and foreigners living here to work, and the result was encouraging: people came, and there were also a lot of students working on these farms in the summer. Concerns were raised about temporary workers or how temporary workers are monitored: Yes, they are under supervision at the moment. So the question is how effectively we can control all of this. It was then also called for the possibility of having a 'good employer' certificate for Mr Satonenttis. It's important. It is being studied at the Ministry as part of the process of speeding up the authorisation process. There are a huge number of different things, and they are being done all the time. It also involves these information systems, their adjustment, and I think there is now a good grip on them. It is now being pushed forward so that these processes must not take up time. And then, in this proposal, it will facilitate administrative red tape for farmers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u57	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u58	We will now continue to deal with item 11 which was previously suspended in this plenary session. — — — — Congressman Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u59	Mr President! In other words, at this stage we are beginning again on Wednesday with these seasonal workers. During the past year, the surprising interest rate situation highlighted many of the pains in our society. One of the problem areas with high column space is seasonal work and the dependence of some of our industries on foreign seasonal workers. I welcome the government's line that the entry of a critical workforce for security of supply will be secured during this year's growth period. It was certainly not a complete success for last year's part. This is a very important signal for our producers and they will not be left behind. There are still many problems with seasonal work. Last year's debate has also placed some kind of shadow on the operation. It is true that in some farms there are shortcomings in the treatment of seasonal workers and, for example, housing conditions. They are not acceptable in any way. However, it is clear that the majority of producers are acting properly. I myself have also familiarised myself with many facilities that employ seasonal workers in my own region, whose activities have been exemplaryly managed. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the whole sector is not stigmatised on the basis of individual abuses. The Government proposal under discussion is one good correction series for key issues in seasonal work. I would like to thank Minister Hatais for his active efforts in updating the rules of the seasoning. This proposal facilitates the possibility for a seasonal worker to change employer. At the same time, the administrative burden on the employer as regards the reporting of employee data will be reduced. Reforms have a clear improvement effect on the position of both employers and workers. It is also positive for employers who break the law to impose sanctions on those responsible for the company or the Community. Mr President! The trend is the right one and we have clearer rules and responsibilities, a reduction in employee dependency on the employer and a reduction in red tape. Finally, before this debate in this Chamber, there was also a proposal that this bill should also go to the Administrative Committee for a consultation, and I am also very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u60	Representative Talvitie, vice-chairman of the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u61	Mr President! Indeed, we are talking about seasonal workers and this government proposal to Parliament and that it is meant to make it easier for seasonal workers to come and work here in Finland — an important and necessary proposal. As far as last year is concerned, it is known that Finland as a whole woke up to the fact that we have a lot of sectors that depend on foreign labour. Many of those sectors are also linked to our security of supply, such as agriculture, the food industry, the collection of various raw materials, the food industry, for example, in the case of berries. And in order for us to be better prepared for this challenge this year, we need anticipation and smoothness, and we also need speed in these decision-making processes. This proposal proposes to amend this Act on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of working as seasonal workers, and is also intended to facilitate the possibility for seasonal workers to change employers while they are in Finland. The government's proposal must be supported mainly as it stands. However, some commentators have pointed out the need for a more flexible start-up period. If you think that the processes have been quite long and you do not know whether you need employees in May to June, or if you think about the autumn season, whether the berry pickers and many others will leave at the end of July, in August or at what stage, then this government proposal is now based on the fact that this start-up period must be known when this application is launched. It is important that this should be flexible, and the hope is indeed that this problem can be addressed in the context of the ongoing project to develop foreign law and authorisation procedures. With regard to the smooth running of these processes, Mr President, the fact remains that, if we are to make legislation work as we wish, then we must also ensure that the Immigration Service, Migris, is in that condition and that we are also in good shape with regard to the electronic application methods. Mr President! To the end: I also support the fact that this proposal has a Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities as a committee of reports, but that opinions should also be requested from the Committee on Administrative Affairs in addition to this Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. So I support Mr Purra's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u62	Like this. — and Mr Kalmari — is absent. Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u63	Mr President! Last year, in this Chamber, we discussed a temporary amendment to the seasonal labour law and, in order to ensure security of supply, we also amended this seasonal labour law. Under the seasonal work permits in force at the time of the entry into force of the Act, and also in the case of subsequent applications, foreigners were granted the right to work in certain areas of importance for seasonal work and security of supply without restrictions. The temporary law was in force until the end of October last year. According to agricultural employers’ organisations, the temporary law was considered successful. In the agricultural sector, the change seemed to result in lower seasonal labour force and workers receiving additional earnings by moving from farm to employer to farm, according to the time the crop varieties matured. The opinions of the organisations support the fact that it makes sense to make clarifications and reductions in the regulation of foreign labour. Despite interest, the number of applications for seasonal work certificates increased by over 300. By contrast, applications for seasonal residence permits fell significantly. The Government's proposal now reflects the need for work-related immigration in Finland. We have long wanted to make work-related immigration smoother, and it is great that work-based residence permits are being speeded up in extensive cooperation under the leadership of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. Over the past few years, problems have arisen in the functioning of the seasonal labour law. For example, it has proved difficult to change employers and the administrative burden on working time has increased significantly. The challenges have, above all, affected the operating conditions of the agricultural industry, which have already been under test during the year of the corona pandemic. These are the challenges that the proposal is now responding to. In addition, the return of seasonal workers will be facilitated. A seasonal worker returning to previous employment does not need to present a report on the conditions of employment and working conditions. These are very welcome proposals. I would like to underline the need to safeguard workers' rights and to minimise abuses. The Government's proposal also takes a position on the prevention of the exploitation of workers. The penalties of an employer who fails to comply with the law will be further specified by applying liability also to those responsible for the company and the community. And, for example, the removal of one employer’s condition can help prevent abuse when seasonal workers are not tied to one employer. This is a good whole to facilitate work-related migration, and new measures will continue to be needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u64	Congressman Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u65	Mr President! I would also like to thank you for this proposal, which indeed addresses many of the problems that have arisen in the seasonal labour law. As we have heard, it has proved difficult to change employers, for example, and the administrative burden on employers has increased significantly. The law has also identified other needs for repairs, many of which have made it difficult to operate agricultural activities in particular and thus to operate in Finnish food production. The changes that are now being proposed, which will make it easier for a seasonal worker already present in the country to change employers, or the proposals that will reduce the administrative burden on the employer, are therefore very much to be expected and welcome. The amendment also takes into account the prevention of the exploitation of foreign labour, which is also important. Foreign seasonal workers play an important role, especially in fruit and berry farming, but of course they are also needed in many other areas. Needless to say, it is important to encourage and attract Finnish workers to the sector as well. In this regard, good work was done last spring and summer, both on campaigns and on updating regulation, and these efforts will continue to be welcome. However, we must recognise the facts and be realistic about the need for Finnish farms to safeguard the harvest season. This was the subject of a good debate earlier today, and Mr Satonen, among others, spoke well in this regard. It must also be understood that many of the foreign seasonal workers are hard-core professionals, who have worked in the sector and also in the management of work for many years, and therefore it is generally not even possible to replace this expertise with workers who do not have the same experience and know-how. Mr President! Of course, as the corona virus pandemic continues, care must be taken to ensure that seasonal agricultural workers are protected without compromising their health. Finnish farms and farmers must be able to prepare spring plantings and the coming harvest season with confidence, but the guidelines for ensuring health safety must be clear and consistent with the government's updated interest rate strategy. Finally, it is also critical to ensure that the authorisation processes for seasonal workers can be smoothly managed in the delegations and in Migri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u66	Ledamot Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u67	Ärade Herr Talman! Ändringen av lagen om villkor för tredjelandsmedborgares inresa och vistelse för säsongsanstalllning är ett mycket viktigt lagförslag i synnerhet för jordbruket i Finland. Det auri gäller också på Åland där behovet av säsongsarbetskraft är stort på vivi gårdar. Det föreslås att lagen ändras så att det blir lättare för säsongsarbetare att byta arbetsgivare medan de är i Finland, arbetsgivarnas administrativa börda när det gäller lämnande av uppgifter om arbetstagare minskas, säsongsarbetares återinres underlättas genom att säsongsarbetare som år till en tidigigare anstalllning hos en tidigare arbetsgivare inte längre behöver över anställning och föruttsättingarna för arbetttingarna för arbettet. Det är postivt. Det tas också hesyn till förebyggandet av att utländsk arbetskraft uttytjas. Sanctionerna mot arbetsgivare som underlåter att följa lagen preciseras genom att ansvaret också åläggs företagets eller sammanslutningens ansvariga personaler. Målsättningen är att få den rai lagförändringen i kraft så fort som öjligt, vilket jag tödjer varmt.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u68	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u69	Thank you, Mr President. These changes to this legislation on seasonal workers are necessary and also expected, above all that there is the possibility of changing employers during their employment relationship, and also this reduction in the administrative burden, as well as the fact that very many of these seasonal workers who come to Finland do so regularly year after year, when these various studies on the conditions of work and working conditions need not be presented separately each time. Here, in the explanatory statement of the government's proposal, it is well stated that this condition of employer-specificity comes directly from the seasonal labour directive. I was in the European Parliament at the time when this directive on seasonal workers was adopted and there was the fear – which is probably not so actual in Finland now, but is often in southern Europe, for example – that the possibility of changing employers might lead to such so-called bulvan companies, which, as it were, bring these people to Europe, and then then put them on different sides of Europe, if just any, working conditions. And one might say that it was feared that these abuses would be the case here in particular, which is why they wanted to include this employer-specificity in the directive. As stated in this government proposal, this employer-specificity is still maintained, but it is then possible for a seasonal worker to change employer while in Finland, so that: The Finnish Immigration Service will then make this legitimate exchange. In concrete terms, this is also important for the merit of these seasonal workers, especially those working in the berry, gardening sector, because it is often the case that different types of berry are produced at different times. It may be that at a given moment there is nothing to do on a farm, but on another farm, farmers of another variety might have work to do. In this way these people would be able to increase their own earning potential, which so far has not been possible, and this will certainly serve the opportunities of these workers. And, of course, it is important that, now that you have the opportunity to make these insurance policies and employment contract information for the whole of this category of workers and not for each individual employee separately, then, hopefully, this will also affect these administrative payments, because it will also become a complaint from farmers that these administrative contributions have run away to a high level, and when every single application becomes its own administrative fee, these may also be reasonably large expense items for farmers there too. In that sense, we must hope that these administrative payments will also be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u70	Like this. — and Mr Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u71	Mr President! This amendment to the foreign law on seasonal workers is a valuable proposal from the government, but it is also valuable to note that the opposition, most recently this representative, Essayah, also supports these reforms in this regard. This is about the fact that there are too many places where seasonal workers are difficult to use and now there is a desire to improve their legal protection. The key instrument that is now being introduced is that this employer change will be made possible without having to return. And this is a critical question for many, because this recruitment often takes place in relation to one employer, and many foreigners who are already in a foreign culture, in a foreign language, are relatively helpless to drive and defend their own interests, depend on that employer, and then this vulnerability is exceptionally high. That is why it is very important that this should be possible for this employer change to become natural if it is not necessary. This is a very valuable performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u72	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Administrative Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u73	Mr President! This third point in my presentation relates to the prevention of the exploitation of foreign labour, in which the government has now taken strong action. Last March, I set up a multidisciplinary working group at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, which covers various administrative sectors, and it has now presented its first package of measures for legislative change and measures. In the autumn budget debate, the government then decided to implement all these measures put forward by the working group, which I think is very important. This government proposal to amend the Aliens Act is part of this package of measures. This proposal now proposes to amend the foreign law to prevent the exploitation of foreign labour and to improve the legal status of the victim of labour exploitation. The aim of this proposal is also to promote the expression of occupational exploitation. In this proposal, the legal status of the victim, the victim, would be improved as follows: Firstly, a foreigner who works on the basis of a residence permit could be granted the right to work without a restriction on the profession or any other restriction or business activity if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that his employer has significantly failed to fulfil his obligations as an employer or otherwise. Secondly, on the same basis, the victim would be entitled to a new fixed-term residence permit for the purpose of applying for a new job and trying, i.e. he would not have to leave and then apply again. These changes would obviously improve the victim's legal position. In order to reduce the opportunities for abuse, sanctions are also proposed for this fraudulent employer and sponsor. Here, too, there are two ways: Firstly, a residence permit may be refused if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the employer or the sponsor intends to circumvent the provisions on entry or residence when applying for that residence permit. This proposal would not affect the possibility for a foreigner to obtain a residence permit for another employer. The current possibility for the Employment and Economic Development Office to refrain from granting employee residence permits to such fraudulent employers would be specified accordingly, so that the decision would always be used as necessary — that is, when the act exists but is not used now, then this is now being specified. The proposal also includes the transfer of the Advisory Board on this matter from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. This transfer supports the prevention of the exploitation of foreign labour and is linked to the transfer of the administration of labour migration from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy from the beginning of 2020 onwards. Mr President! At worst, the exploitation of foreign labour is actually a question of an economy of exploitation, and the purpose of these legislative changes is now to make the position of abuser more difficult, more difficult and to offer protection to the victim accordingly. The preparation of these new measures to eradicate this phenomenon will continue throughout the reign, which is to say more is still to be done. With these changes, the Employment and Economic Development Office would be better placed to refrain from granting an employee’s residence permit. In this respect, increased control will also prevent exploitation and will, of course, also protect the Finnish labour market from such unfair competition. The Ministry also updates the guidance to TE Offices and ensures consistent use of recruitment bans across the country. With these measures, I would like to prevent temporary recruitment from abroad from employers who have committed exploitation. After all, the exploitation of foreign labour is a phenomenon which, in a way, remains hidden for just as long as the legal status of these victims is weak. In other words, by strengthening the status of the victim and the right to work in the country, we will also improve the ability of the authorities to detect this and address this phenomenon, which is indeed serious and repugnant, as we have also heard and seen these reports and documents about publicity. At the same time, the sanctions must also be more specific to this exploitative body, thereby preventing such activities. So this performance is a good opportunity for all of this now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u74	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u75	Madam President! Things are moving forward when you have a good government. Here too there are particularly good points, and then, hopefully, this will not be the only one. What is noteworthy here is that we are now able to tackle the threat that this foreign labour force is not threatened by the fact that the employer can, without exception, threaten the continuity of work and the loss of a residence permit, unless we humble ourselves to lower wages and work under worse working conditions, which undermines the competitiveness of our honest employers, who are competing in the same market, where there are these entrepreneurs who benefit from wage dumping and the gross exploitation of foreign labour. What I would like to raise, however, is, of course, what I have already listed here: the dumping of wages, the non-payment of wages, the non-payment of allowances, threats to continuity of work, inhumane hours of work, working conditions, even physical violence, miserable living conditions, the withholding of rights, the tightening of residence permits and the tightening of family reunification. There are certainly medicines for these, and in the previous paragraph Mr Satonen said that the assembly has this good employer certificate — certainly a fine and good thing to carry forward as a project, but it will not solve these problems, nor will it be local agreement. Should local reconciliation still be applied with these people who are already in a subordinate position? In other words, I was not talking about the right of collective action, but I was talking about the right of action of the trade union movement in order to get close to foreign workers, and on the same point the pressure for underpaid workers to be criminalised — they are instruments that allow it to be seized. But here too, the adequacy of control resources is particularly important. Without it, nothing can succeed when these good legislative projects, which the government is now doing, can then be implemented. Perhaps I will take a cautious position on what the suspected abuse is and on how to move from one sector to another. However, I would like to point out, at least as a personal view, and I believe that, at least for some part, the left-wing parties have a view, that, then, access-tested or means-tested, it should be the case that, in this review, the transition from one sector to another, where this means-tested is, in a way, an obstacle, should not be allowed to pass or create such a channel that this access-tested exercise should be ignored at this point. That cannot be the solution here either. But, Madam President, this is a step forward, and the Minister's work is acknowledged that it is already here in this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u76	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u77	Mr President! The aim of the proposal is to prevent the exploitation of foreign labour, to improve the status of victims and to increase the visibility of exploitation. The theme is one that the Finns have been talking about for many years, many times. Sometimes we have even been accused of entrepreneurship and of inventing these problems in our head. I myself have raised information and statistics collected by Victim Support Finland, SAK, Regional State Administrative Agency and researchers, for example. There's plenty of it on the table. As we know, there has also been a great deal of public debate on this issue in recent times. Cases and abuses have been flagrant. It is a good thing that the government has decided to intervene. Unfortunately, I am not convinced of the measures taken by the proposal. Instead of tackling the problem itself, this proposal focuses on rewarding workers for being exploited. It is not at all far-fetched at international level that the proposal leads to a situation in which a foreign worker should either deliberately seek out bad working conditions or pretend falsely that he has been exploited. At the same time, his family can stay in Finland. Finland is at its own level in family reunification compared to Norway and Denmark, for example. The investigation of suspicions of abuse is neither simple nor short-term. Sweden has very negative experiences with similar projects. If there were more resources for monitoring, more cases would be raised. However, the problem itself is structural and will continue as long as people want to recruit a Finnish immigrant or an immigrant who has already established their stay in the country, i.e. a cheaper and more motivated employee, for example. The risk areas raised by the proposal are the restaurant, construction and cleaning sector, shipyards, platform economy, car washes, domestic and seasonal work, i.e. all the sectors most dominated by immigrants — precisely those where access testing is dismantled and it is punctured with holes, for example in Uusimaa, and the sectors where asylum seekers are also recruited. These groups constitute the vast majority of so-called labour immigration from third countries: low-skilled or no-skilled immigrants. The risks for employers of the exploitation of foreigners are virtually negligible and, unfortunately, they are even after this proposal. Depending on the sector, there are immigrant employers in the background, as is often the case in the restaurant sector, or contracts chained several times, such as buildings. The most shortcomings in inspections have been observed in the construction, restaurant and cleaning sectors, but we also know that they exist with Asian coders. As I said, the problem is structural, the continuing flow of low-skilled or uneducated immigration to Finland, which is being accelerated further. The Finns have put forward a number of remedies, including skills and wages requirements. With the exception of the seasonal work permit, the limit could be EUR 3000. Our proposal has, of course, been shot down on what excuse. What is exciting is that in Sweden, the moderators, which are therefore ideologically responsible for the Finnish Coalition Party, are entirely in line with the Finns of Finland. The Swedish Coalition Party wants to put an end to work-related immigration in those low-skilled sectors that earn less than the Swedish average wage, i.e. approximately €3100 a month. It should not be possible to recruit workers from abroad in these sectors. According to the party, ending low-wage immigration from non-EU countries combats crime and exploitation, saves money and at the same time tries to solve the significant unemployment problem of foreigners who are already in the country. It seems that more and more immigration problems are starting to arise in other Nordic countries. In Sweden, even the Social Democrats are pushing for blackmail. At present, they are calling for tougher penalties and sanctions for employers who have committed infringements. They want to increase the level of maintenance obligations required in connection with family reunification to more than twofold, to 30000 kroner per month. The Danish Social Democrats are not even dared to talk about them in this context. Unfortunately, Finland is acting differently, as is the case with this proposal. It will not end problems or abuses as long as there is always a new, cheap and humble immigrant coming across the border to clean up our mess, build our house and pedal our food home. The benefits are for certain sectors of the economy, even individual companies, the cost to all taxpayers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u78	Congressman Holopainen, Hanna.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u79	Mr President! Much has been said recently about the exploitation of foreign labour. Many speeches have already been made in this Chamber during this sitting. Unfortunately, it is a fact that there is systematic exploitation of foreign labour in Finland. As shocking as it is to admit, these cases are also often very flagrant. This phenomenon must be tackled firmly, and the government is doing so with this proposal as well. We cannot allow the exploitation of disadvantaged people in Finland, but neither can we blame those who have been exploited for being placed in this position, as was done in this previous speech. One challenge has been that the risk of being caught has been very low and that acting for criminal purposes has made it possible to achieve a great deal of economic gain. This benefit now needs to be removed, so that victims in a position of subordination can no longer be exploited in this way. It is wonderful that the government has prepared measures to tackle this problem, and this proposal relates to the broader programme of measures for the strategy to combat the shadow economy and financial crime that this government has worked on here. The government has rightly recognised the importance of strengthening the legal status of the victim of abuse. As long as the victim fears that when this phenomenon is revealed he or she will lose his or her residence permit, he or she will have a very high threshold to report shortcomings in employment or working conditions, and then the criminal employer will be able to exploit this. At the same time, it is quite right that measures should be taken to impose sanctions specifically on this fraudulent employer, and that is certainly a sustainable way of combating this phenomenon. It has also become clear from these previous speeches that, in order to tackle the problem, we also need to look at the fact that the control resources are at an adequate level, and I hope that the government will look at this in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u80	Congressman Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u81	Madam President! The exploitation of foreign labour is one of the lowest forms of crime in which criminals exploit people who are already in the most vulnerable position. The problem is a wide-ranging one, and it is difficult to get to grips with it. I consider it a valuable thing that, despite this, the government has gone very ambitiously to eradicate this phenomenon from our labour market. The proposal under discussion improves the status of victims of occupational abuse while at the same time better targeting sanctions on those responsible for abuse. The central idea is to reduce the dependence of a foreign worker on a fraudulent employer. This will be done by enabling job replacement or business start-ups. The victim should be entitled to a new fixed-term residence permit based on exploitation for the purpose of seeking new work or trying to do so. As has already been said in many speeches in this Chamber, the employer has now had a very strong grip on the worker, since, in the event of a problem, expulsion has been possible. This change is very necessary and will make it easier for the authorities to break away from abuse cases and become aware of them. The other side of the proposal is the targeting of new sanctions on the fraudulent employer and sponsor. As a result, a residence permit may be refused if there are reasonable grounds to suspect that the employer or sponsor of a foreign worker intends to circumvent the provisions on entry or residence when applying for a residence permit. It is important that the sanctions apply directly to the employer and do not affect the possibility for a foreigner to obtain a residence permit for another employer. Madam President! The exploitation of foreign labour must be combated by all means available. This package is a significant step in the right direction, and I am also very pleased that new measures are also being prepared on the ministerial table to respond to this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u82	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u83	Madam President! Indeed, this is a government proposal in the referral debate aimed at preventing the exploitation of foreign labour and improving the legal status of the victim of labour exploitation, and the aim is also to promote the emergence of occupational exploitation. These objectives of the proposed amendment are common and acceptable and necessary. I believe that in this Chamber these objectives will be shared from the side to the side. What is the significance of legislation? I myself think that the importance of legislation is to create, in a way, rules of the game, so that all those involved in it know what is right and wrong, what is punishable, what is the aim of society, what is encouraged to do, what is right and what is wrong. In this exploitation of foreign labour there are many things that are wrong. They are unfair, they are unfair, and they are such that our society does not need or need to be encouraged in any way. In that sense, when things are done in a way that is monitored and monitored, then perhaps the objective that is right is also achieved, that is to say, that those objectives are met. One problem, however, is the difficulty of monitoring. What are the police's tools and means of tackling problems in these low-paid services sectors, in particular those in the restaurant and construction sectors? This is where action is being taken to change this situation, and to highlight, for example, the fact that an employer and an employer of this kind who is acting fraudulently could then, if it turns out that he is doing so, become sanctions in so far as those residence permits could then not be granted, if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the employer or sponsor of a foreign worker intends to circumvent the provisions on entry or residence when applying for a residence permit. But the focus should genuinely be shifted to very effective and systematic post-control, and it should also be possible to use automation and data from income registers that would be up-to-date. But the monitoring of working conditions could also be stepped up
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u84	Congressman Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u85	Thank you, Madam President. The proposal shows that cases of exploitation of foreign labour are revealed through the helpers and organisations of foreign workers and through the revisions of the occupational safety and health authorities. Cases also arise in connection with police and other foreign surveillance. Abuse is often systematic and professional and the risk of being caught is low. Among the industries, the risk areas of labour exploitation are, as Mr Purra mentioned, the restaurant, construction and cleaning sector, shipyards, platform economy, car washes, domestic work and seasonal work. These sectors constitute the majority of the mobility of third-country workers, i.e. labour-based migration. Misuses are unfortunately very common. In 19 regions of Southern Finland, the Regional State Administrative Agency carried out a total of 847 checks on foreign immigration control, and more than 80 per cent of jobs had at least one foreign employee who was not entitled to do this work in Finland. A large number of shortcomings were identified in respect of the minimum conditions of employment of foreign workers. Madam President! The proposals put forward a solution to the problem described as an improvement in the legal status of a exploited foreign worker by granting him or her the right to work without a restriction on the profession or any other restriction or business activity where there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that his employer has significantly failed to fulfil his obligations as an employer or otherwise. In addition, on the same basis, he would be entitled to a new fixed-term residence permit for the purpose of applying for a new job or trying. A residence permit for job-seeking or business activities would be continuous. In this case, family members would also be able to retain their residence permit if the person’s family is in Finland and they previously had residence permits for family members based on the employee’s residence permit. Family members would also be able to apply for a new residence permit. Madam President! I do not understand how the proposed measures would reduce the exploitation of foreign labour. They create only exploitation, a new way of staying in the country for people who would otherwise not fulfil the conditions for obtaining a residence permit. The proposed approach could even encourage the adoption of work whose conditions can be interpreted as exploitation and thus allow for a residence permit. False allegations of abuse made in the hope of obtaining a residence permit would also probably arise. I believe that the right solution to this problem would not be to reward victims for being exploited, but to impose proper sanctions on companies and individuals who exploit foreign labour. The punishment must be so severe, even in the form of imprisonment or compensation, that the risk should not be taken. Six months of quarantine doesn't have a deterrent effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u86	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u87	Mr President! The news of the exploitation of foreign labour in recent years is truly worrying and sometimes even hard to believe in the Finnish context. Unfortunately, the phenomenon is more diverse than expected and also wider than expected, often systematic and professional. For example, on the municipal court we have tried these by means of supervision and in cooperation with the police. The risk of exploitation of workers is low, as the activity may not be visible outwards and the victim is often a foreigner who may either accept the procedure or at least submit to it because of fears, for example, of residence permits. It is therefore essential for the government to act to eradicate the undesirable phenomenon and to improve the status of the victim. It is also important to intervene in the activities of a fraudulent employer. This is where police resources are important. It is also a good idea to tighten up the granting of new residence permits to new employees of these fraudulent employers. The effect of the proposal would be to ensure that workers who are victims of the exploitation of the labour force are able to live, stay in the country and continue to work. An employee who has been abused would be better placed to leave the exploitative employer. The situation of the exploitation of foreign labour would become more evident because the foreigner would no longer have to fear the end of the right to stay in the country when he turned to the authority. The Government's proposal suggests that a foreigner who works on the basis of a residence permit could be granted the right to work without any restriction on the profession or other restriction or business activity if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that his employer has significantly failed to fulfil his obligations as an employer or otherwise. In addition, on the same basis, he would be entitled to a new fixed-term residence permit for the purpose of applying for a new job and entrepreneurship. It would therefore be possible to obtain a residence permit for another employer. The above-mentioned proposals would significantly improve the legal protection of workers and are therefore to be welcomed. Mr President! We have been talking for a long time about streamlining work-related immigration and clarifying legislation. We want to build a sustainable society in which responsible entrepreneurs and workers have an encouraging and safe operating environment. The Government's proposal is an important tool in creating a fair and fair labour-related immigration policy, and it is also part of a wider whole of tackling and preventing abuse in the black economy. These are good steps towards the rights of a growing number of foreign workers
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u88	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u89	Mr President! I consider this bill to be a good one and a step in the right direction. At first, when Mrs Myllykoski started her speech, I thought, ‘Is it even the case that we agree, but there was a lot of hard text towards the end that we were able to get a little off track of that?’ But, in fact, I think it is a question of this being a bit like a good employer certificate backwards, in other words, in a way, an employer who has proved to be bad is being deprived of the opportunity to obtain these permits and is also being held responsible for what has been done. I think that is quite right, and it is also right that the status of the victim should be improved in such a way that he will be able to get a job in the same sector or in another sector, so that the threshold for having the courage to announce the situation will be significantly improved. So I think that this is a step in the right direction. As for the speeches made by the Finns of Finland and, in particular, by Mr Purra, it must be said that it reflects such an aspect that, as if this kind of exploitation were the rule. As I see it, even when it comes to foreign workers whose wages are below the Finnish average wage but nevertheless in accordance with collective agreements, I believe that the majority have been properly managed. But then there are those who have had problems and are now being influenced by these legislative changes. But a solution of the kind that automatically those who are below the average wage would go away would be a very tough decision for the rural communities at least, because there are quite a few other people's wages below the average, and many Finns also depend on the fact that there are those foreigners on the same site, so that the company will succeed and there will be enough workers. In other words, I do not recommend this type of system, but instead I do support the proposal that the government has put forward here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u90	We have spent time here, but there are two speeches here. Let us take them and then the Minister's speech, and then we shall see if we can continue this later in the evening. — Now we are going to speak to Mr Kimmo Kiljunen. Congressman Kiljunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u92	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u93	Madam President! Special thanks to Mr Satonen, who notes that we disagree on some points. Perhaps this disagreement is now related to the evaluation of their consequences and opportunities outside the scope of this legislation. We will probably have an eternal drink in it, but there are many things we will certainly agree with in this legislation, and our common concern is that Finnish companies will be on an equal footing when the market is divided, and at the same time that the workers who then work in Finland will also be on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u94	And Minister Haatainen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u95	Mr President! Thank you for those good contributions. Indeed, even in this debate, there is a reflection that, as if this were the way it was to be — especially the speeches made by the Finns of Finland — some sort of bypass if they were exploited. You get a job here, you get a work permit for the company. If he is abused, this law now allows the victim to seek another job. He does not need to return to his country of origin and start reapplying for a job, his position will be strengthened, thus preventing his exploitation. At the same time, it will also prevent companies from being unfairly competitive with each other, because it can benefit from paying less wages and not paying social security contributions and so on. So this is fair for companies, and it is fair for these workers. [RiikkaPurran intermediate call] It was also stated here that this requires a great deal of supervision and also expertise. Migri's resources have been strengthened, there have been 70 more person-years of work, and it will of course now be used in Migri to strengthen this competence. Control will also be given attention, and it will certainly be on the government's agenda here; these measures will not stop there. Representative Talvitie here also raised the possibilities and means of the police, that is correct. The police have been consulted, our working group on the prevention of the shadow economy, which now invests around EUR 20 million in measures in various administrative sectors during the government term, and now the police have just started a new unit for exploitation and trafficking in human beings at the beginning of the year, and there have been new posts. Then Talvitie also brought up this automation system and the automation system of the authorities. It is used, and now we are also being created for authorities such as the tip information system, through which can then be hinted about such cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u96	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u97	Mr President! May I also wish my dear colleagues a good start to the part-session. The present Government proposal proposes to amend the law on the scrapping premium for passenger cars in 20 and 21, which entered into force on 1 December 2020. The proposal proposes that the conditions for granting the scrapping premium should be specified by adding to Article 2 of the Act a provision that only one scrapping premium may be granted for the purchase of a new passenger car, an electric bicycle, a seasonal public transport ticket or a combined public transport service with a right to travel. This is a purely technical matter which has been the subject of an incorrect interpretation. This will ensure and confirm the will of both the Government and Parliament. The law is intended to enter into force as soon as possible and to remain in force until 31 March 22. The current law itself limits the possibility of receiving a scrapping premium per car purchased for one scrapping premium. Article 2 The conditions for granting the scrapping premium are It follows from the conditions laid down in the Act that the scrapping premium may be granted for the purchase of a new non-registered car if the person has supplied the passenger car immediately before being scrapped for scrapping as provided for in the Waste Act. The conditions of Article 2 of the Law are in unit form and do not allow the law to be interpreted in such a way as to allow more cars to be scrapped to be used for the purchase of one new car. In addition, Article 3 of the Act provides for the amount of the scrapping premium: the scrapping premium is granted from State resources of EUR 1000 or EUR 2000 for the purchase of a passenger car. Article 3 The maximum number of cars to be purchased The terms of the existing law limit the granting of the scrapping premium to a maximum of one scrapping premium per new car to be purchased and therefore the scrapping premium may be granted either EUR 1000 or EUR 2000 per car to be purchased. It is not in accordance with the aims of the law or the will of the Parliament to receive more scrapping fees against one car to be purchased. There has been no doubt in the preparation of the existing law about the above-mentioned limit, and this is clear from the government's proposal. Parliament's will to grant the scrapping premium only once for the purchase of a new car has been clear in the examination of the Government's proposal and in the adoption of the law in force by Parliament. The committee's report states that the scrapping premium would be granted to a natural person in order to replace an old car with a new car and similar products. It is therefore clear from the committee's report and from the conditions laid down by law that only one scrapping premium can be paid for the purchase of a new car. The terms of the claim and the amount of the scrapping premium are clearly defined in unit form. In this respect, the conditions are the same as in the previous scrapping premium in 2015 and 2018. So I dare say that at any point in the legislative process no one has put forward a different view — lawmakers, commentators, members of the parliamentary committee, heard experts, representatives present in this Chamber — but when the law was ready, it began to live its own life in a way that none of us could imagine. There has been a lack of clarity in the granting of the scrapping premium by the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency. There have been incorrect applications for scrapping premiums for the purchase of one new car from several scraped cars, and several such applications have been submitted to the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency. This situation has become apparent to the management of the ministry since the beginning of January, and immediately, the following week, the government proposal before us was decided to submit. No changes are made to the content of the law — this is important to note. The Government’s proposal merely ensures, confirms the unanimous purpose of both the government and Parliament, the highest legislator in our republic, that the scrapping premium can only be paid once for the purchase of a new car. The aid shall be granted by the Transport and Communications Agency, which shall have sole jurisdiction in the matter. Given the Agency's competence, it was decided to submit a proposal from the government in order to remove the ambiguity in the agency once and for all. The Ministry of Transport and Communications is not responsible for granting the aid and cannot otherwise direct the decision-making of the competent authority. The lack of clarity regarding the granting of aid is therefore not due to the law in force. The Finnish Transport and Communications Agency will review applications and contact all applicants who have submitted applications for more than one wrecked car. No such aid has yet been notified. The amendment now before us would ensure, once and for all, that the scrapping premium is granted in accordance with the will of Parliament. The acquisition of one scrapping premium per new car to be purchased will ensure that the funds earmarked for scrapping premiums are sufficient for more than one applicant. Mr President! I hope that the Government's proposal will receive an understanding reception here in Parliament, whose will is sacred to the Minister. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u98	Thank you. — and Mr Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u99	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Haraka, for presenting the matter. The proposal proposes to amend the law on the car scrapping premium, which has given rise to a great deal of debate among the public. Due to the lack of interpretation of the law, scrapping premiums have been applied for in up to tens of cars for one new low-emission car. This has not, of course, been the will of Parliament and not the intention of the legislator, as the Minister has said, but the aim has been to introduce as many new low-emission electric cars as possible to replace old scraps. This appropriation is EUR 8 million, which means that we all understand that if there is a lot of such dozens of cars for one new car or for an electric bicycle, there will not be very many cars or bicycles. However, it is not possible to blame those who sell their junk trucks or those who buy a new car. They have acted in accordance with the guidance they receive and the interpretation of the law in force. Some of the instructions have been unclear, although the law refers to the car in the unit, and the questioners have received different instructions from different quarters. For its part, all of this shows the law’s scope for interpretation. Mr President! It is necessary to clarify the law. In sparsely populated areas, families live, with more cars, including bad ones, because of circumstances. We are now in a situation where families or small entrepreneurs may have wrecked several cars in search of a scrapping premium. My question to the Minister is: how do we deal now with the scrapping of these cars, which have clearly occurred in the family?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u100	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u101	Mr President! This revision of the scrapping premium law is more than just a technical amendment. Unfortunately, this is also about the poor drafting of the law by the sitting government, which has been mentioned. [SunaKymäläinen's interlude] The law was already in the preparatory phase last autumn. It was to be subject to excessively tight criteria for emission restrictions on the new car to be purchased. This error, of course, was corrected before the law came into force, but the last few weeks have revealed other defects in the preparation and, in particular, in the application of the law. In this regard, the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency, Traficom, has been the most important co-conspirator. So, on the basis of the law, does the citizen receive one or more scrapping premiums? In this interpretation, the state of the day has changed for the authorities and the legal protection of citizens has been compromised in recent weeks. Mr President! Several citizens have contacted us as MPs in connection with Traficom's activities. They have been informed of the possibility of several scrapping premiums on the Agency’s website, telephone, e-mail, chat conversations and so on. The citizens have therefore acted in accordance with the instructions given, scrapped their own cars and replaced a new low-emission transport system. In addition, Traficom published a press release in January, in which the Agency specifically stated that the purchase of a new car could benefit from scrapping premiums from several cars. However, the newsletter was removed after some time. The authorities have now announced that they will not be silent. Traficom is taking several scrapping premium applications to the police, and the government is hurrying to clarify the law. Those who have acquired a new car may have to cancel the sale and pay compensation. The citizens rightly feel that they have now been conned by the authorities. The law cannot be interpreted retrospectively to the detriment of the citizens. This, I believe, was the last thing that was done at the time of the war-guilty trial, and there was nothing good about it either.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u102	Looks like there's a willingness to go to the first debut of the year. Chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, represented by Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u103	Mr President! It is necessary to address this glaring speech by Mr Sankelo. First of all, I would like to remind you that this law has been adopted in this Parliament by the whole Parliament. The group has also been very much in favour of this, and indeed the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications clearly states that one scrapping premium for one new low-emission car, electric bicycle or public transport ticket. This spirit has been strongly reflected both in the discussions of the committee and in the committee's report, which has been adopted jointly in this Parliament. So this isn't just a government screw-up if we're looking for the guilty, but it's also a collection, the whole mess in this Chamber. The fact that there have now come such glaring examples that there have been more than one hundred bundled scrapping premiums — of course we have to react here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u104	Vice-Chairman of the Committee, represented by Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u105	Mr President! Just as Mr Kymäläinen, chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, said: once this matter has been dealt with in the Committee on Transport and Communications, as has also been discussed and decided in this Chamber, there have been no different views on this point from any parliamentary group. The Coalition Party and the True Finns objected, but it concerned a different matter. In my opinion, the law is unambiguous: from one car to one car or to an electric bicycle and so on. When we had a law on the scrapping premium for 2018, for example, there were no doubts then, and that law has also led us to take this law forward. But it is, just as the Minister of Transport, Mr Harakka, said,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u106	One minute is a minute this year. — — — — Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u107	Mr President! Indeed, it must be said that the coalition is now, of course, trying to conduct an opposition policy and is now accusing the government of doing so. I can tell you that this is not the fault of the government. I have been working on this myself, and there is nothing wrong with the law. The whole problem is that... If an individual person, then I say that the finger of blame would actually have to point to the minister, because the minister should lead this game, Traficom and his own ministry, and there should be expertise in this matter. I have to say that I am even annoyed at how much I was in contact with the Minister, for example, about these problems: I was sending a video, I was telling things in the hallway. I said that there will certainly be problems of this kind if this comes into force at the beginning of December. This should come at the turn of the year, so there would be no problems of any kind, no one would get to play tricks. But that's the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u108	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u112	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u113	Mr President! Indeed, the citizens have made frequent contact with them and have told them that they have been specifically receiving from Traficom their e-mail enquiries, their letters, including tsätti and other answers, the instructions of which have not given rise to interpretation, but have said that there is the possibility of receiving this fee for more cars or vehicles to be scrapped. In this sense, the fact that the ministry is going to find out what has happened there in Traficom with regard to these guidelines and, on the other hand, to ensure, for example, the protection of their property in this case and perhaps, above all, the protection of their trust, because people have taken these scrapping decisions with the idea that they will receive it from more cars and have lost their property through it. In that sense, it is rather strange that we are now still drafting such legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u114	And Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u115	Mr President! The matter is difficult, and something has happened, and it is possibly one single official, from which this sort of thing has started. The principle of the protection of legitimate expectations is such that citizens must be able to rely on the instructions of the authorities. This is the principle that these matters should be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u116	And now for the transition, Congressman Werner.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u117	Mr President! Since the entry into force of this law, as has been pointed out in this Chamber, there have been issues that indicate that the instructions have been unclear and have been interpreted little as it happens. I think it is funny now that we are concentrating in this Chamber on who is guilty and who is being fingered, who is being accused. Now we have to take responsibility for the decision that we have taken together here and say that we may have done a little badly together and we now have a little bit to fix.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u120	Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u121	Mr President! However, I was rather surprised to hear Minister Harakka's introduction because he did everything he could to wash his hands on this whole issue. I would have liked you, Minister, a little more humility in dealing with this matter, because I think that the legislation is quite unambiguous and clear, but the reason why we are now asking these questions here is because in December and January, the central agency under your administration has given a number of completely contradictory information to Finns about whether to use more scrapping premiums or not. As a result, I have received dozens of feedback from people in the field who wonder how it can first be said that this can be used, then cannot be used. These instructions have changed all the time, and finally, Minister Harakka,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u122	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u123	Mr Marttinen replied, Mr President, to the fact that this legislation cannot be quite clear at the moment if these interpretations are to be interpreted in this way. I also disagree with the Minister when he said that the lack of clarity was not the result of the law, but Mr Werner well said that it was the result of the law. So it looks like we're thinking about it inside the government, too. So if the coalition blamed the government, then the Finns blamed the minister, and then we think about who is guilty, but we know that the problem is now at hand and there is confusion. If this is misinterpreted by people in the civil service, it is clear that there is some confusion or law is inaccurate. It is then necessary to seek ways of doing this in order to ensure legal protection for citizens and, above all, the protection of property and the protection of legitimate expectations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u124	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u125	Mr President! Mr Ovaska made a surprising speech here, not surprisingly but well. So this has been said in such a way that the law is good, that it is clear, and it is always proved here that there is nothing wrong with the law, but why could there have been such differences of interpretation? Now we are reforming that law, and that is another indication that there is some confusion. The citizens have therefore relied on the information they have received from the Authority and have taken decisions and decisions. Yes, it is a very special situation, and I think that the government and the minister must take this very seriously. The second thing that has been said is that there have been some shortcomings. It may be that such a civic sense is not enough to understand that there are even hundreds of wreckages. But the fact that in this context
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u126	And next up, Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u127	Mr President! Mr Vehviläinen wanted good legislation in his speech at the opening of Parliament, which is of course a very important and worthy idea. Unfortunately, the previous scrapping premium law did not exist, but the proposal left too large loopholes in the law for scrapping premiums. The aim of the Government's proposal before us is to lay down the conditions for granting the scrapping premium more precisely and to clarify the conditions in order to remove interpretational ambiguities. There will therefore be clarifications of the performance in relation to the scrapping certificate. However, it must now be borne in mind that those who have acted in accordance with the previous law would not suffer unduly. These people cannot be made to pay for bad legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u128	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u129	Mr President! In fact, the scrapping premium is a very good thing. Its purpose is to bring new low-emission cars to transport. This must also have been the purpose of the present law in spirit, but, admittedly, this has been a very special episode and certainly teaches that legislative work and all the work in general must be particularly careful to avoid ambiguity and confusion, and surely this also teaches that as long as people build the world, mistakes also occur. But I would be kind enough to renew the question to the Minister, which I think is the most relevant: is it now the case that a citizen who is, therefore, in a firm belief in the instructions and who has scrapped the ten cars?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u130	And now the time is full. — Representative Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u131	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that this current law on scrapping premiums has been based on previous scrapping premium laws. My interpretation is that this law, as the Minister put it, is appropriate in that sense, but that problem has arisen there in the interpretation of the authorities, and I consider this to be a very difficult and problematic issue, particularly in terms of the legal security of the citizens, not in terms of these unclear mass bundles, but in terms of the scrapping of three or four cars. On 18 January, this year, Traficom has announced in its press release that ‘as in the case of a new law-making operation, the acquisition of a new low-emission car will benefit from a wider range of scrapping fees’. This was a direct quote. This message from Traficom was shared on social media, by leaders on Twitter, and so on. It has now been removed, but where is the legal protection of those citizens who have complied with it?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u132	And the chairman of the committee, Mr Kymäläinen, and then the Minister will be able to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u133	Mr President! Indeed, it must be remembered that we as Members of Parliament or Parliament are not a court of law. We're making legislation. It is an agency, an extra-parliamentary body which has interpreted it in its own way, it has been addressed, and now the authorities, the courts and so forth will find out how these decisions and guidelines will work in the future. I think it is unreasonable to blame Minister Harakka for this with a pointing finger. Personally, I think we have more reason and reason to thank Minister Harakka for bringing in new legislation so quickly, as this so-called loophole, which is not specifically prohibited by law, has been misinterpreted. If we began to make legislation so that everything that is not written in that law would be prohibited,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u134	Like this. - And now, as promised, Minister Harakka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this debate. Mr Marttinen wished the Minister more humility. I concluded my speech by asking the House for an understanding of the present proposal. In my opinion, I had tried to be humiliated because of this very unfortunate turn of events. I must say straight away that it is certainly quite unique — hopefully unique — that all legislators at different stages have agreed on what is intended, wanted and how this should be interpreted, but it is still the case that a public authority or some public authority has given such a false and incorrect interpretation to the public and has told the public. I do not think we should blame ourselves for this in this Chamber. Of course, you can always blame the minister, and perhaps you should. For my part, I was informed of this on 4 January, and the next week the government had made this proposal in your hands. Delays have not been allowed in a situation where the will of Parliament, the supreme legislator, has to be safeguarded, nurtured and strengthened. Mr Laakso is a very competent member of the Committee on Transport and Communications, and it would have been very fortunate if you had recorded these problems in your objection to the report so that we might have avoided this unfortunate situation. Now the situation is that decisions taken by the Transport and Communications Agency, when they come in due course, can be appealed to the Administrative Court. Our starting point is that Finland is the rule of law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u136	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u137	We will now resume the debate on item 13 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session. — — — — Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u138	Mr President! After all, this is a government proposal in which this scrapping premium law is being clarified. Thus, according to this amendment, the law in force is specified in such a way that the conditions for granting the scrapping premium are specified by adding to Article 2 of the Law a provision that only one scrapping premium may be granted for the purchase of a new passenger car, an electric bicycle, a seasonal public transport ticket or a combined service with a public transport right to travel. In addition, it is proposed that a transitional provision be added to this law, according to which the application made before the entry into force of this law would be subject to the provisions in force at the time of the entry into force of this law. In other words, according to this clarification of the law, a person cannot scrap, for example, five cars and use the scrapping premium from five cars to buy one new car. That is what we have been debating here in the Chamber as to whether this text of the law has been made clear in the first place. However, there is a desire to clarify this now. It must have been the will of the legislator that it is a matter of compensation for one vehicle to be scrapped for one vehicle to be purchased, but the problem is that we have a public authority, Traficom, which has given misleading and false information to the public. When there was a debate in this Chamber where the perpetrators were, and some felt that there was no reason to look for the perpetrators, I think it should now be noted that the departmental agency has misled the public here and caused a serious breach of the protection of legitimate expectations against these citizens, because the problem is that, once this law came into force, some people have already actually had time to do these scrappings and, in the case of several cars, the idea that they are using the fees from more cars to compensate for the purchase of one new car. If this clarification of the law in any way clarifies this issue now, it is of course a good thing, but it must be understood that we have citizens who have already had financial damage because of this interpretation and also because of incorrect instructions from the authorities. The amendment before us does not provide any compensation to the persons who have already scrapped it, but proposes that this amendment of the law which is still under discussion be applied to the scrappings that have already been carried out. And in that sense it might be said that we, as parliamentarians, have to take a stand as to whether it is right that the protection of people's trust has been so seriously undermined. I am aware of at least one case in which a person has had email correspondence with Traficom's official to ask for clarifications on the application of the scrapping premium and Traficom has clearly been informed that the scrapping premium for several cars can be used for the purchase of one of the items covered by the law, such as a car. Of course, there can be no doubt about the content of this advice if you have read the message from Traficom. When I listened to the debate in this Chamber, several colleagues said that they had received similar messages and not just e-mails, but they had been sent by email and apparently by letter and so on, and fortunately these citizens have put these instructions in place, because I would say that the public has clearly been misled here by the public authority, and I am sure that there will also be legal proceedings on these matters. I understand that this type of interpretation came to the website too, I have not seen it myself, but so I have heard that this interpretation of the Traficom was also given to the website, and then at some point this instructions on the website then disappeared, and was it so that it had been referred to forward and similar. So the sum summarum: It is extremely important that people can anticipate the effects of their activities on the basis of the content of the law and the advice of the authority. Similarly, as in this case, it must take account of the principles of good governance which determine the functioning of the authority, such as the obligation to provide advice to the authority, and then the principle of the protection of citizens' confidence. In that sense, I do not think that misadvising this authority should penalise the citizen. When the Minister here said in some way from the box that he wished this would be such a clarification and asked for an understanding on this matter, I would say that there would probably be a place for an apology in this respect. Yes, the authority whose guidance has been trusted and advised by the public has done the wrong thing and, in that sense, the protection of the public's confidence has been destroyed. In fact, what I hope is that the committee, when dealing with this matter, will also concentrate on asking whether there is any way to compensate these citizens for the lack of clarity of the law and, above all, for the financial losses caused by the unclear guidance and false guidance of Traficom. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u139	Thank you. — Mr Koponen, Ari is gone. Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u140	Mr President! The scrapping premium has been used in Finland before, and it has been a proven way of reforming the car fleet. It was also thought that the scrapping premium would now be a hand extension to the car dealership suffering from the interest rate, and the starting point for the scrapping premium was in order: encouraging and not disciplining. The purpose of our legislators was clear: one scrapping fee per new car. However, the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency, Traficom, set out to interpret the law in its own way, and now there is quite a soup at hand. Traficom has advised and instructed citizens on its website, telephone, e-mail, chat, social media and so on. 18.1.2021 On its own website, Traficom stated the following: ‘As in the case of a new law,the acquisition of a new low-emission car can benefit from a greater number of scrapping fees. The aid shall be granted up to a maximum of one new car purchase price.’ This information Traficom shared on its website, telephone, e-mail, chat, social media and so on. In a typical way for us Finns, instructions from the authorities have been given and followed. Many Finns acted as instructed by the authority. Pekka ordered a new car and scrapped three old cars with rules. In the Tiina family, four old cars were wrecked while the new car was already waiting at the car shop. The threat now is that the authority itself will not follow its own instructions and the citizens will be left alone with their large acquisition without the aid promised, while the mortgages and other expenses will remain the same. I do not believe that the people can be blamed for this. They have acted in accordance with the instructions of the authorities, i.e. Traficom. Madam President! Now these instructions from Traficom have been changed. Previous instructions and newsletters have been deleted but cannot be undone. Traficom has gone behind clear attempts to abuse, and therefore no one is asking for this abuse to be approved. But what is the legal protection of ordinary citizens who have followed official instructions? If anyone here should be liable, then I think it is clearly Traficom. It cannot be that, in making a mistake, an authority seeks to remove its previous instructions and ignores the way in which citizens have advised by telephone, in writing and otherwise. I believe it is in the interests of citizens' legal certainty that those who follow the rules and guidelines do not start to feel guilty on this point. The perpetrator of this mess is in Traficom and I really hope that the Agency will be checked and explained why citizens have been misled in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u142	Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u143	Madam President! We had a debate here at an earlier stage on this issue, and then I said that I thought the debate on the Minister's side was a bit peculiar in the sense that I think he has now overlooked quite a bit the point of criticism itself, which rose again from this Chamber. As Mr Könttä has pointed out in his speech, these are, above all, questions relating to the way in which the central agency under the responsibility of Traficom LVM has acted in this regard. In other words, we have numerous cases in which ordinary Finns have trusted that they can now act in accordance with this law. They have been in contact with Traficom, for example. Here, for example, I dug out that on December 21, the head of Traficom's tax service has confirmed to the press that several scrapping fees can be used for one car. However, it became apparent later, in early January, that Traficom has suspended the treatment of the scrapping premiums, and then, on 18 January, Traficom announced that more than one scrapping premium could be used for the purchase of the car. This fact sheet was subsequently deleted from the Agency's page. And again on the 25th of January, that is, a week later, Traficom announced that it is possible to use only one scrapping premium per new purchase car. Madam President! This is a rather harsh language about how confusing and inconsistent the work of this central agency has been on this issue. The reason why I wanted to ask Mr Haraka about this too is because, as Minister of Transport and Communications, he is responsible, first of all, for the administrative affairs of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, but he also provides guidance to the central agencies. So how is it possible, when Parliament has adopted the legislation, that the central agency will apply the law in a completely different way from what has been the spirit of the law itself, the purpose of the law, and the Ministry has not intervened in this with sufficient rigour? I find it very difficult to understand how it can be possible for the same central agency to change its interpretation week after week, after which we now have a lot of situations where, for example, I was contacted by a family member from Eura, who has therefore scrapped two very old cars to get a new car for his family. Now, once and for all, because Traficom has changed its guidance, suddenly the word of the authority that has been said to this man is no longer true. Yes, Madam President, this situation is therefore incomprehensible. I guess I'll move on, Madam President, to that toilet for a while. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Madam President! Let's just keep this up for a second. — In other words, I was given this legal certainty and that the Finnish citizens must also be able to rely on the instructions given to them by the authority. It cannot be the case, as I said, that, first in December, more scrapping premiums can be used for one car. It was then decided to suspend this treatment of the scrapping premiums at Traficom. It was then announced on 18 January that it would be possible to use more scrapping premiums for the purchase of the same car, and then it was again suspended a week later and it was found that this was not true.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u144	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u145	Madam President! A loophole or a wedge-eyed green policy? We must not know what caused this mistake and perhaps there is no reason to find out. Let me put it this way: in any case, it must be corrected that this will not happen again. Much has been said about the principle of the protection of legitimate expectations — what does that mean? Chapter 2 of the Administrative Law Grounds for Good Administration, § 6 Administrative principles: ‘The authority shall be treated equally in the administration and shall exercise its powers The actions of the Authority shall be objective and proportionate to the objective pursued. They shall protect legitimate expectations on the basis of public policy. “ I would now like to send a message to this Chamber and also to those officials in Traficom who, with great probability, will be watching us speak here. Madam President! Thus, the principle of the protection of legitimate expectations, as defined in Article 6 of the Administrative Law, means that the actions of the public authorities must protect legitimate expectations on the basis of the legal order. In practice, the key element of the protection of trust is that individuals should be able to rely on the correct and correct functioning of the authorities and on the sustainability of the administrative decisions taken by the authorities. The principle of the protection of legitimate expectations limits, for example, the withdrawal of beneficial decisions with retroactive effects and, in general, the modification of decisions in a way that is detrimental to individuals. In a way, then, the principle of the protection of legitimate expectations protects the individual from public authority — or more precisely from its arbitrary nature. A person in the administration must be able to rely on the authority not to change the decision afterwards. The administration customer must also act honestly and in good faith. The trust of the administration customer is not protected if it deliberately acts contrary to the law. Retrospectively, i.e. retrospectively, the legal status can be changed if the customer has acted dishonestly, e.g. by concealing information. Madam President! It is a violation of the rule of law if the authority does not follow its own instructions. Madam President! I have in my hands an e-mail exchange between the officials of Traficom. He's checked four times to see if he can wreck several cars. This is perhaps the sharpest or most violent example, to which Traficom’s lawyer answers: ‘You are suggesting that you will destroy the 30-car dealership to the 60000-euro-paying hybrid farm. If you purchase a hybrid with a carbon dioxide emission below 95 g/km, you may receive a scrapping premium of EUR 60000 for the purchase of your car.’ This is Traficom's help for this person. These four questions have been answered by three different persons. They all allow what is known as "rottification". There are private individuals at risk of losing their property, but this is also a very difficult situation for car dealers: they are waiting in the yard and there are new cars ordered for which there is currently no taker. Until we figure this out, they can't sell it to anyone else. It gives us a rather challenging situation. There may be small car shops that have already paid the importer for that car. The car has come to them, and now the customer is not picking it up, the situation is standing. This needs to be corrected as a matter of urgency. This is a very challenging question for the car industry. There have been numerous communications that there are families without a car at the moment, when the car was bought in the way it was finished in that row, everything had to go well, a month had to come to a decision. Now, if there is a long delay in this, it seems to me that if legal proceedings are started on this, those processes will be more expensive than this replacement of cars. I think we should take this all the way to the finish line. There is still something that is still running in the language on this matter, but if it does not come to mind quickly, then I will ask you to speak again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u146	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u147	Madam President! Indeed, I was a little surprised at the recent debate when our representatives of the Transport Committee, the SDP, even disagreed a little about whether there was any interpretation of the law or not. There's no room for interpretation in the law. ‘The scrapping premium is granted from the State’s There is nothing unclear about this. This is entirely dependent on the fact that probably a single official of Trafi, when they have been asked a question about this, has gone off in the wrong way, assuming something, perhaps wisely thought that well that if two cars are put on, then there are two scraps out of traffic. This is where the soup started. [Department :Actually! ] And although this is just now the esteemed chairman of the committee, Mr Kymäläinen and the Minister, Even the magpies threw it at me that you did not intervene earlier, so this was not in the government's proposal in our committee debate. How could I have interfered? As soon as I realized that, I even told Minister Haraka about it on my own political website, as I know Mr Mäenpää has told me about it. I've even made a video of this nonsense in my own backyard, told the minister with it, but for some reason they've just wanted to believe in this system, this fancy junk-and-grabing thing that's been working twice before. This is such a good example of the grotesqueness around the scrapping fees. The statistics examined that Trafi feeds us are due to the fact that even the cars there were not even the engines that were given in 2018. Those emissions are calculated on those completely wrecked cars. I can tell you that our company picked up 120 cars in one of the only locations in Ostrobothnia. Only 40 of them were used for the scrapping fee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u154	Representative Werner — absent. Representative Pitko — gone. Congressman Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u155	Madam President! To begin with, the scrapping premium is a good tool, it is a good instrument for the renewal of the car fleet. And as has been seen, there is enough demand for it. So the problem is not in this instrument itself, and I do not think that the problem is that the will of the legislator is in some way unclear, but, as has been said, the problem lies in this unclear interpretation of the law. These stories, which have now been heard, have been quite incredible, in an unfortunate way incredible. I myself know that the citizen has received a promise from Traficom, a decision that more than one scrapping premium can be used for the purchase of one new car, and that is why I find it quite impossible for a citizen to be unable to rely on the instructions given to him by the authority. In other words, Traficom's communication has been sadly unclear and grouchy, and this cannot be the case. Well, there has been a debate here about whether this lack of clarity is in the law or indeed in this interpretation, but unfortunately, from the point of view of the citizen, it does not matter what the confusion has been, if the end result is that he has acted in a way that he thought was right, that is, in good faith, in good will. Not all of these cases are, therefore, lumping up dozens or hundreds of cars, but there are such wreckings, for example, of two cars or three cars, and in that sense there has been genuine good faith. So now I personally think that it is essential that the citizen should be able to trust the authority and that this matter must now be resolved in one way or another. A citizen cannot be paid for the vague interpretation of the law or for the unclear and flimsy communication of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u156	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u157	Madam President! Here today we have had a good debate on this scrapping premium law — I respect the good, one-sided debate that has now taken place — whether the current law is clear or not, and whether it is necessary or not, now that it is a government proposal. However, I think it is important that the government's proposal is dealt with very quickly, very quickly. If it's a clarifying bill to the present one, that's a good thing. As far as I am concerned, the current law is clear and should not have been done. But if, in practice, one word is added to the current law to make it clear to all authorities as to what is meant by the law, so good. I personally hope that we in the Committee on Transport and Communications will deal with this very quickly and that the law will come into force. I think we have all received a great many contacts on this issue this year. I could also look at a lot of them today, and I have had an hour’s call on this matter with a car owner who has already wrecked 40 cars according to Traficom’s decisions and policies, and he is getting a new car. In my opinion, Mr Könttä has made a very good speech here on what is, in particular, the legal protection of citizens in this case. When we in this Parliament passed this present law, we all felt that it was clear in this regard. In my opinion, it seems wonderful, as has been pointed out here, that the Transport and Communications Office, Traficom, has started to interpret the matter in some way, and if there has been some confusion about how to interpret it, it would have been reasonable, in my opinion, that it should have been clarified there before giving the citizens a view of their actions. For example, it would have been possible to contact the legislator as to how it was intended. I think the Ministry would have told me that, too. In fact, the most important thing in this context is, in my opinion, how citizens' legal protection is now realised, how Traficom is dealing with this precisely for those citizens who have already wrecked several cars, perhaps several dozen cars, on the assumption that it is legal. In my opinion... [First Vice-PresidentTarjaFilatov : I request that a representative be transferred to the [Speaker to Talker Rock]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u160	Congressman Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u161	Madam President! We are now discussing the spirit of the law. In this debate, we have talked about legal certainty, legal certainty, quite rightly. I also think that we should remember in this debate when we talk about legal certainty, legal certainty, the rule of law, and the legal protection of the taxpayer. It is a matter of pursuing a general sense of justice. I think it is natural that, for two years, if the scrapping premium is set aside for 8 million of society's common funds, which are collected jointly by taxpayers, this 8 million has been thought to be shared for the benefit of as many of us as possible in society. I think it is natural to think that society does not fund the large acquisition of an individual, such as a hybrid car or an electric car.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u164	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u165	Madam President! Indeed, we are dealing with the proposal to amend the Act on the scrapping premium for passenger cars in 2020 and 2021. The law's really good, isn't it? After all, the primary purpose of the law on scrapping premiums is, of course, to reform the Finnish fleet of vehicles and thereby to reduce emissions from transport. In my opinion, Mr Laakso made a good speech and asked that when there are minor errors in this legislation, how are they corrected, and in this referral debate of the government's proposal these should be highlighted. I myself have received requests to contact me on this matter. I am most concerned and first of all I have to say that this law has not been made for yobarians, absolutely not, but for everyone. The purpose of the Act has been that all Finnish citizens have been given the opportunity to give up old vehicles and with rewards to buy a new low-emission car or even get an electric bicycle. But the point is that, before this amendment comes into force and when the law has entered into force, the persons who have submitted the application for the scrapping premium — as Mr Könttä pointed out here — would be treated as such families with more than one car. Yes, good governance should be carried out in this country, that if the law has been put into effect, then it would also be done, because yes, Finnish citizens must be able to trust the Finnish authorities. I would therefore hope that this will be done and that good governance will be followed precisely in this matter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u166	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u167	Thank you, Madam President. We have heard two very good speeches here today from both the President of our Republic and the respected President of Parliament. He said that in Finland, in accordance with tradition, the tripartite division of power, to which reference has already been made in this Chamber, is being used, and this is indeed the case. We are not judges here, but we can openly discuss the spirit of the law and represent the people of the Republic of Finland as parliamentarians. In general, there have been two doctrines in the law that I myself have always met from time to time: ‘What is not the right and the right is not the law. “ In that sense, it is a proverb that applies to the previous speech, referring to the Jobbars. On the other hand, the ‘pactasuntservanda’ agreement is Yes, citizens must have confidence that what the authority says to them is the same. Well, then, what happens in these unclear cases? It may then be an interpretable matter of the Court of First Instance. I think it is simply wrong for the citizens to have one word promised and then one speech withdrawn. The error here is clear that it has happened in the Transport and Communications Agency. Well, then perhaps this is what makes it tragic, as we heard a couple of speeches earlier, that the Transport and Communications Agency, that is to say the Communications Agency, could not have called the Ministry of Transport and Communications on such a simple matter as the telephone and asked when it was thought that ‘Hello,how does this law have to be interpreted’ —which is the same as the previous scrapping premium —that’s to say, ‘if it is to be understood in the same way’. They would have called the Ministry of Transport and Communications and asked Yes, there is a sense of soloism here, and above all the citizens are being played here, if this is how vulgar words are allowed to be used in this Chamber. What is the solution? Of course, it is difficult to say whether it is five cars or six cars. Of course, I'm not the judge of that. But is it the solution, then, to increase that budget so that we can enable this to be done to the citizens, to the honest citizens who, in keeping with the guidelines, have contributed to this issue? I do not know, but I am sure that this will still have to be considered and discussed in the Committee on Transport and Communications. On the other hand, it must be borne in mind that, when there are these speeches on some retroactive legislation, this will not be the case, but this new law, which I believe must also be dealt with quickly and which is now — and it is not the case that it will not be carried through quickly and quickly because of precision — will come into force in due course. But until then, this current law is in force, and I must say, on behalf of the citizens, that it is my sense of law that, following the rules, those who have scrapped, for example, two or three cars, so that they can have a new, less-emission car, then also that new car will receive and receive, for example, a scrapping premium of between EUR 4000 and EUR 6000. This is not how we meant as legislators... [First Vice-PresidentTarjaFilatov : I ask the representative to move. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u170	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u171	Madam President! I take a little hold of the message from here that came to me: ‘As a self-hearted car enthusiast, who did not correct thedisease,I put in all the bundles,up my own car,year model06,in the hope of anew car,whoever came to the store. It was ordered by the store, because last week on Traficom’s page it was announced that until the new law arrived, the bundles would be accepted.” Madam President! Representative Laakso gave a good and instructive speech to Mr Kymäläinen. I believe that the debate in the Committee on Transport and Communications should be just as Mr Laakso has suggested. Mr Kymäläinen, as chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, said that the law did not change retroactively. Somehow you referred in this way to the fact that the law does not change here. That is your interpretation, and your interpretation may be correct, but the official instructions are those that are now being changed retrospectively and retrospectively. That is what you will have to discuss there in the Committee on Transport and Communications, which is the right way to proceed. Madam President! In this regard, I believe that it is wise to deal with them in this way, as originally instructed by the authorities. However, I think there should be a transitional period, because this has been back and forth, and now there are some families there, for example, I know one with a wrecked family father's car, a mother's car, a daughter's car and two old parents' cars. They've had five cars. They've gone to the store and said they're gonna buy that from there. They've been told there's only one way to go. They had, you might say, collapsed this thing, dropped like a stone on their shoes, that now they could scrap and now they can't spend that money. In other words, there should be some sort of transition to prepare for this, not in such a way that who has been able to submit an application in time, but those who have scrapped before the amendment of the law would have the right to apply for this multi-drop payment. Otherwise, these will be years of complaints and legal proceedings. Some have purchased a car by proxy in such a way that the proxy is recorded as part-payment of the new car. Some have taken it by way of a deposit, confident that the money will come to them from Traficom about a month later. For car shops, this is a tricky thing. There are cars in the yard that they cannot sell because they have made them a trade, and if this legal process continues, then confidence in the authority will be undermined, and it will also undermine faith in this administration. And now that much has been said about the rule of law in recent times, I think that it is particularly worth remembering this in this way too, especially for those who have spoken about it the most. It is no longer a EUR 8 million scrapping premium; it is now a matter of trust in the administration and in the activities of the authorities. Mr President! Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u172	Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u173	Madam President! Very briefly, this is the end of the matter. I think that excellent speeches have been made here — thank you only to all colleagues. I think, however, that we have a fairly broad common view of what the main problems here are, which we need to focus on together. And even though this debate may have got off to a little off the ground, because it had a taste of handwashing, I now feel and feel that everyone here has understood and understood that the central government agency has acted in an incomprehensible way, which is likely to undermine public confidence in the activities of the authorities, their legal certainty and their trust in the functioning of the administration. It was also well described by the steps I have described in this application of the law itself and in the changes that have taken place in just a few weeks. Furthermore, when the Minister is not present, we have not received a clear answer and an explanation as to how it could possibly be possible, once Parliament has adopted very clear legislation, then the central agency under the ministry will act in such a confusing way and give completely inconsistent answers to the citizens. Yes, Madam President, it is a matter of urgency that the Committee on Transport and Communications should be given answers to these questions now that we are starting to deal with this whole issue tomorrow. Let me add that it is also absolutely necessary that Traficom should then also give us an explanation of what is behind this, that this has been done once. I can't remember what would have been the kind of thing that would have been so many people's feedback for such a short time. Of course, this has been perceived to be very unfair, which of course it has been, and this has now contributed to confusing the car trade and eating people's confidence in this public administration. For that confidence to be restored, these problems must now be solved, and then we must move on. But, Madam President, let me conclude by saying that, unfortunately, I also see that this conflict also leaves the entire scrapping premium at its disposal to the point that it may take a long time for it to be corrected, that people will also be confident that, if there are more of these experiments, the scrapping premiums will be genuinely dared to use and the conditions will be in force, which has once been decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u174	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u175	Madam President! Indeed, there was talk just now about the way in which the Traficom has gone on this matter and the way in which it has been in the ministry, and the representative. Könttä brought up the fact that we can't use the phone. But at this point I would be willing to hear Traficom's reports, explanations of this, because we probably do not know, with Mr Könttä, whether there has been a call from Traficom — that is, whether or not this problem is even in the ministry. I have to say that today's discussions when I was summing up in that head of mys, I thought a little bit that this would be the case, so that it is not necessarily Traficom's fault, but Traficom has actually been asked about this matter from the Ministry and the Ministry, but it is probably going to be clearer in the future. A worrying atmosphere — yes, of course, it must be said that I was left with a little atmosphere of commenting on the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, at least, that there would be collective actions against Trafi if this were, in its way, the opinion of the government parties, or in particular the SDP, that people should have understood for themselves how it is. In that sense, I sign that I could have understood, but people should not have to think about how this is going to be done, because they have still made sure of it many times, and it has sometimes been announced that this will be stopped, and it has sometimes been announced that it will not be continued. There are so many cases that have come to me in this rumba — of course, when gas flows through the veins and I'm dealing with these things anyway. I have all the e-mails and all the other channels of communication filled with these examples, and it was after the beginning of January that I was asked too, when the first announcement came from Traficom that this would be interrupted, and I even went to give false advice. I said no, because it is now suspended until Trafi said in a few days that nothing has been interrupted. I didn't really keep up as a congressman, did I? I had to delete one of the videos because that video gave the wrong impression of the matter when Traficom went to change his opinion again. After this, we can no longer assume that the citizen can do it this way, because there were many other things there: that bicycle could be ordered from the Chinese online shop, that new car could be bought in Germany. Of these too, a direct reply from Traficom to the e-mail that I have received for myself — happened to be a familiar guy yet who asked. No more than this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u176	Congressman Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u177	Madam President! I would now like to reiterate what has been repeated several times in this debate that there are no mistakes in this law, but there has been a mistake in this interpretation of the law, which runs counter to the spirit and purpose of Parliament and this law. This is a sad example, and I am sure we all agree on this, and this should certainly not happen, and in the face of such a situation we should not be having this debate in this way. In order to give citizens justice and to clarify matters, it is good for these ambiguitys to be interpreted, and if there is anything we can do as legislators, then that is what we are trying to do. It is true — the representative Mäenpää brought it up — that this is also a difficult matter for motorists. Some of the car dealerships have purchased these new cars.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u180	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u181	Madam President! As I said in my previous speech, I believe that this government proposal must now be brought forward quickly. Quickly forward, but thoroughly as well. What has happened in this current interpretation of the law is, in my opinion, its own process, and it must also be found out what has happened in it and who has said and told what and so away. But the most important thing is that the process that has taken place is also clarified and that the citizens do not suffer from it. And if this one word in practice makes the law clearer, then let it be done and quickly, but yes, citizens in Finland must be able to rely on the authorities and the word of the authorities what is said to them. It must be a starting point, and I also believe that Finnish law-abiding citizens do so, as the authorities say, and can be trusted. But the damage that has already happened cannot be overtaken by this government proposal and by this amendment of the law. That needs to be clarified, and we must be prepared for it, and in practice, I think it is Traficom's task to do so, because the fact is that the Transport and Communications Agency is responsible for granting the scrapping premium. Here in Parliament, laws are passed, and then the agency is responsible for granting the scrapping premium. They have the instructions how they admit it, how they have interpreted it, and then they have to go along with it. But the law must also be unambiguous, and I hope that this change will make this simple enough that it can no longer be interpreted in any other way. I personally hope that this will now be brought forward quickly and that the citizens will not suffer. It must also be the starting point for these unfortunate situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u182	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u183	Madam President! To that extent, I would like to say that here, at least myself, when I have interpreted a few different guidelines, there have also been some contradictory instructions from Traficom. This time line when it's gone, those instructions have changed a little. Among other things, it has been such that if someone does not have the time of the year that the car has yet to be owned, there is an instruction that you can submit an application and then drive that one car to the end — there are some conflicting instructions there. Then, Congressman Kymäläinen, you mentioned... [ The speaker’s microphone goes off]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u186	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u187	Madam President! Indeed, as the chairman of the committee, Mr Kymäläinen, has just mentioned, there is absolutely nothing in the law. And basically, when it's being discussed tomorrow and we do that legal amendment thing or fix it, I have no objection to that either. I just told you that it's a little pointless in the sense that it wasn't in the original law. And it is certainly not to be expected from our side that we will begin to twist from it. We do not necessarily have to discuss this again tomorrow, when we are debating today in this Chamber and the positions have come up. Of course, it goes without saying that tomorrow we will not be able to discuss the way in which these matters will then be dealt with for compensation and so on. It goes without saying that this in some way... Let it be, then, as it is said, that we do not know exactly where this blunder has been, but if we assume that where it was originally in Traficom, then it means that Traficom is the one who is, so to speak, paying for this game. Of course, if Traficom can prove that it is not from them and that they have been given a superior order to do so, then there is another matter. In any case, however, these installations contain what must be addressed in the so-called complaints and claims, or in whatever way it is now being dealt with. I am well aware that the law, when it has not been adopted in the first place, is, in a way, the amount of money that has been allocated to it, of the 8 million, could not really, in my opinion, give, but should come from some of the funds under Traficom if Traficom has done so. But without further ado, tomorrow we are going to discuss this, and I think we are going to give it as soon as we can. At least we can fix it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u188	Congressman Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u189	Madam President! Finally, it is true that Traficom and the judiciary are going to deal with this matter and resolve what has happened now, all these uncertainties and what has happened. That is not our task, and our influence is not even enough. Representative You were talking about the spirit of the hall and the conversation that's been going on here. For that reason, of course, the referrals are that the speeches made in the Chamber and the spirit of the Chamber will be taken into account in the committee work. This has been the case, and it will be so. In fact, when I think about the whole of this debate, has there not been a common will, however, that we want citizens to be able to rely on legislation and the rule of law and the instructions given by the authorities, and if we can do something about it as legislators, we will try to do it as far as possible. Mr Laakso, tomorrow we will continue the debate in committee. There is only a small proportion of the committee's representatives here, and I am sure they too will have their own questions and comments to make. Let us also make this legislation constructively to the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u190	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Let us go to a debate opened by Minister Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u191	Mr President! The Government's proposal aims to amend the Yle law so that regulation is compatible with EU state aid rules. After all, the radio is not a government radio, and, as has been the case, this government proposal has been prepared parliamentaryly under the direction of parliamentary groups. During the consultation, views were strongly divided. In particular, representatives of commercial media were in favour of further restrictions on Yle's activities, while, for example, disability organisations and many citizens were concerned about the equal opportunities of citizens for universal service. According to the mandate we received from the parliamentary groups, the proposal sought to take these opposing interests into account in a balanced way. State aid received by Yle has been brought before the European Commission in 17 C.E. and has been examined with the Commission. Discussions with the Commission have shown that the regulation of the public service mission of Yle needs to be clarified. This is a wider debate on the role of public service broadcasters in the EU, and similar State aid complaints have also been made in other EU countries. In this way, the Commission has generally paid attention to the competitive effects of broadcasting on commercial media. Firstly, according to the proposal, the main focus of Yle's content services must be on mobile image or sound publications as required by the Commission. Secondly, the proposal states that Yle's text content should, as a general rule, relate to the publication of Yle's image or sound. By way of derogation, this connection would not be required in cases listed by law. Such cases would include short text content published by YLE on the basis of cooperation with the Finnish Information Office, short news content related to fast and rapidly evolving news situations, public information provided by YLE in accordance with YLE law, the Sámi and Romanian languages and text content in the language of other minority language groups in the country — it should be said here that it does not refer to Swedish, which is another national language and an official language in Finland — textual content related to culture and textual content related to teaching. Mr President! These proposed restrictions on content services would be monitored by the Board of Governors as part of the supervision carried out by the Board of Directors to ensure that Yle's public service programme tasks are carried out in accordance with Article 6 of the Yle-Law. In practice, the future orientations of the Management Board will be able to specify the content of the text. Yle in the future will publish. Article 7 of the Yle-Law, which defines the functions of YLE, has always been quite general. The article has taken time and made it possible for technological developments to be taken into account. Therefore, the necessary demarcation of text content has also been sought by the Ministry of Transport and Communications in the same spirit through general principles. I have had discussions with parliamentary groups. I thank you for the valuable guidance shown here by all the parliamentary groups. And when I look around in the Chamber, perhaps I would pick up a distinguished representative, Mr Satos, who I would like to thank very much. Together, we have come to the conclusion that by trying to resolve the issue in an informal procedure, Finland would have the best chance to influence the outcome, and that is why the Government is proposing this amendment to the Yle law. However, there is a risk in the informal procedure of the Commission that the Commission may continue to deal with the matter and the Media Union may continue to pursue its complaint. Mr President! These are the words I'm going to open up a referral.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u192	Like this. — and Mr Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u193	Mr President! We live in a world of many kinds of knowledge and many kinds of realities. Healthy and constructively critical, fair, transparent and free communication is an important part of democracy. It should be remembered that Yle’s free text production serves a wide range of citizens. There is a need for relevant news and text. As the Minister said, the law has been prepared by parliament. Disability organisations have contributed to concerns about the text-based services of those in need of special support, but the opposite interests have been taken into account in the preparation. The Centre defends the diversity of information and high-quality, multi-sound communication and journalism among citizens. Yle is an important part of this whole together with other media. Yle's software must continue to be largely domestic, and it must support domestic production and production. In particular, I consider Yle's regional role and Yle's activities throughout Finland to be important. It should be remembered that Yle’s news service has a lot of material of regional and local importance. They contain a lot of textual material online. It is important that YLE works impartially and offers high-quality science, culture, culture, news, history, sport and contemporary programs. I find it very important that Yle offers programmes for special groups, both children and older people. Yle should also retain its important role as an information intermediary in exceptional circumstances, as has recently been the case. I consider it essential that Yle continue to follow the Journalist's instructions, professional, ethical guidance in its communication. There is a point in point 26 on respect for human dignity. I've been getting some feedback lately from Yle about listening to the Ruler. In the context of political satire, there has been a particularly offensive and mockery of the light treatment of conviction. Journalist’s instructions should not be forgotten in connection with any genre. I think it is important that Yle adheres to the Journalist's instructions in all situations, unlike many media who call themselves alternative media, which often do not follow ethical guidelines and whose news is mostly broadcast at the level of opinion. The strength of Yle and the legitimacy of its activities increase from its impartiality, high quality requirements and ethical activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u194	Like this. — and Mr Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u195	Mr President! The purpose of the proposal is therefore to clarify the regulation of the public service remit of YLE. In practice, the provisions are intended to limit the possibility for YLE to publish textual content as part of a public service mission. The problem with commercial media and fair competition in the current situation is that long text-driven news is being published online, which has traditionally been the most important contribution of newspapers. The fact that Yle has deliberately invested in them distorts competition. You can visit and read long text articles, which are far from always related to, for example, image production, unlike, for example, the Swedish Broadcasting Network, which is short. Yle has therefore specifically sought to become a competitor of newspapers online. However, the only added value of Yle's online stories for the reader is their free access. Mr President! When the Finnish Broadcasting Company is trying to maximise its reach online, it does exactly the kind of stuff people want to read and spread online: lifestyle, social media news, or so-called news, and so on. It is quite right to ask whether this is really in line with the public service remit of the Broadcasting Company. Some years ago, the then Prime Minister and a few other ministers dared to marvel at the situation and Yle’s desire for complete network news management. A particular source of surprise and concern was that Yle invested in locality in online news while small provincial newspapers struggled and still struggled for their existence. Since then, Yle has compromised such online news on the demand of provincial newspapers. By the way, however, the situation has not improved. The air domination of textual network news, built outside its mission, weakens the operating conditions of diverse and pluralistic media. Mr President! A package prepared in parliamentary terms is very necessary and hopefully manages to tackle the problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u196	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u197	Mr President! It is important that this proposal has been prepared in parliamentary terms and then brought to a good conclusion, and of course the aim is to change this definition of the public service mission in such a way that it is compatible with EU state aid rules. In this regard, Mr Purra well described the fact that the position of competition has not been fair in itself. Surely it is that in the past years Yle has indeed entered the region of regional newspapers and also the area of national newspapers, and the problem is that one operates in a tax-funded way and the other media is on order. Mr Kinnunen also pointed out very well that, on the one hand, the need for a public service obligation must also be seen at regional level. Especially in this corona period, I have thought that, when regionally these different regulations vary and people are looking for this information quite often via the network too, in the event that they are behind the payment wall, those regional restrictions or what has happened regionally, if they are behind several local and regional newspapers, there is a situation where it is necessary to have a public service operator in that area.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u200	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u201	Mr President! As indicated by the Minister's presentation, this proposal proposes to clarify the definition of Yle's public service mission in such a way as to comply with EU State aid rules. The amendments would limit Yle's ability to publish textual content as part of a public service mission. The purpose of the draft law is therefore to better define Yle's textual online content. President! There has been a debate on whether public funds can be used to produce online content that is not related to the public service, YLE. In a complaint to the European Commission, the Media Federation considers that Yle's text-based publication is in practice a publicly supported online newspaper. In this respect, it is necessary to amend the Broadcasting Act in order to ensure sustainable conditions for domestic private media. President! I also share concerns about the operating conditions and resources of commercial media. For example, regional newspapers and other local media play an important role not only as a provider of local and regional news, but also an essential role in exceptional situations such as the corona era. Nor should this field be driven into pressure and unfair and unfair competition. On the other hand, Yle also has an important regional role, which I greatly appreciate. It also provides programmes for special groups, for example, and its role is emphasised as a guarantor of multi-sonicity. Textual content is an important means of publishing for Yle in this respect. This aspect has been highlighted, among other things, in the statements of the Journalist Federation and the programmers of the Finnish Broadcasting Company. President! High-quality journalism by Yle, together with other media, is an important part of Finnish society. There are many warning examples from abroad, and there have also been medias in Finland that do not care about the instructions of journalism.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u202	Congressman Holopainen, Hanna.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u203	Mr President! At this reading, we have a government proposal restricting the operation of YLE. The proposal has been prepared in cooperation with parliamentary groups. This is a situation which seeks to ensure that the public service mission of YLE is defined in such a way as to comply with EU State aid rules. The background is the Media Federation’s complaint to the European Commission in 2017. The presentation limits the textual news content published by YLE. In the future, text content should be more closely linked to the publication of moving image and sound. However, the restriction would not apply to short news content, publication of official information, content in the language of minority language groups and text content related to culture and education. This change aims to strengthen the operating conditions of commercial media. Concern has been raised about the possible impact of this change on equal access to information for citizens. We live in a world where reliable and diverse information is increasingly important. The inequalities in society are also becoming increasingly apparent in terms of access to information. Reliable knowledge is an important part of a democratic stable society. We therefore need to look carefully at this whole issue in the parliamentary debate so that this is not jeopardised.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u204	Congressman Sarkkinen, Hanna.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u205	Mr President! At a time when false news is spreading and social debate is bubbling, at a time when there is a need for real information and social debate, at a time when there is a demand for cultural experiences and shared stories, it is increasingly important to ensure the functioning of the public service. The Left Alliance believes that the right to receive reliable, versatile and factual information belongs to everyone. The Left Alliance believes that high-quality, refreshing and diverse cultural content belongs to everyone. The content of the radio is accessible free of charge to every citizen on television, radio and online. The Left Alliance believes that this should continue to be the case. Yle's activities are of paramount importance for the equality of citizens and for the functioning of democracy, and Yle's activities must be secured by this bill of law and will continue to do so. We are not particularly happy to make these changes to the Yle law — it must be admitted — but, in cooperation with other parliamentary groups, we have tried to choose the lowest evil path and have come up with a solution which, hopefully, causes the least harm to Yle’s activities while meeting the requirements of the EU Commission. Mr President! The European Commission requires Finland to take measures with regard to Yle. The background is a State aid complaint to the Commission. According to the complaint, the content of the text of YLE distorts competition in the media sector, although there is no evidence of distortion. On the contrary, a recent study covering all EU countries shows that public and commercial media benefit from each other. There are many examples of complaints about public broadcasters from other parts of Europe. Complaints have often been handled in informal discussions with the Commission, and this is what Finland is trying to do. In accordance with the Commission's terms and conditions, efforts have been made to make changes to the law so as to minimise the need for restrictions on Yle's activities. YLE has been preparing for this change for a long time and has added a moving image and voice to its text content in a multi-media way, in accordance with the Commission's state aid conditions. According to Yle’s own assessment, the change in the law does not significantly undermine its functioning. If successful, this lighter, informal procedure would be better than a long and uncertain formal judicial process with the EU. Mr President! Together with all the parliamentary groups and the Ylea consultants' bill, the aim has been to choose a solution that will continue to safeguard Yle's operations. The Finnish Broadcasting Company is a department under the Parliament. For this reason, Parliament must carefully monitor the situation caused by the legislative change and ensure that Yle continues to provide comprehensive information about the world, perspectives on society and experiences of culture on an equal and accessible basis for all Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u206	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u207	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that, as usual, this has been prepared in parliamentary terms. I think we've been working on this for decades. It is a rather rare feature, by the way, because when you often take the BBC as an example, the opposition has no role in the decision-making of the BBC. That it's great that we have a tradition like this that's preserved. Perhaps first a few more fundamental aspects of this matter: When we talk about this relationship between Yle and the commercial media, I think that this is something where everyone is right. I understand that if someone distributes milk for free, then it is difficult for someone to sell that milk. So, of course, it is a matter of course that as commercial media increasingly live on the Internet and digital magazines and others, it is also of the utmost importance for them that someone who is guaranteed to buy those news because it is absolutely essential for their existence. But then, on the other hand, it is exactly what Mr Sarkkinen and many others here said that the majority of people will never exceed the wall of payment and will not spend the money, so that, if the service provided by Yle is not available, they will miss out on the news, and that is the balance that needs to be struck here. The third point is that, in order for this situation to be as good as possible, it should be possible, from the point of view of public access to information, to maintain this current system, in which we have a strong provincial newspaper and then we have a strong Yle regional delivery. It is also the case that if a regional newspaper from Finland ends, Yle’s regional delivery will not be able to replace the role of its regional newspaper, and it is quite obvious. And then, on the other hand, if Yle's regional supply is not there, it also results in the situation that the regional newspaper will then be monopolised there, and that is not a very good situation either. So it's like if this current status quo were to be maintained, it would be the best of all, but these others are being challenged quite strongly since Google and Facebook, because the threat they pose and the fact that they are going there is the biggest threat to commercial media, and that is something we find difficult to control. Well, that's probably one of its own things you should be able to do something about. Mr President! Finally, on these exceptions: I think it is self-evident that these rapid news situations should be covered by this exception. If a ship drives to the rocks, it must be able to tell, even though there is no image or sound. And then I think that these teaching situations and others are also clear, in terms of education and learning. Then, of course, I'm a little surprised about this news agency thing. When I was drawing up a parliamentary working group on Yle, it was the commercial media that demanded that Yle become a member of the STT, and then that change was made, and now this has thrown just like on its head,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u208	Like this. — and Mr Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u209	Thank you, Mr President. As the government has proved, it is frighteningly easy to distribute the single currency. It is even easier to accept it and demand it more and more. When government-funded agencies grow piece by piece and year on the taxpayer, we end up paying for activities that would not have been heard in the early stages. However, the beneficiaries will defend their position to the very last, and the payers will be presented with frightful images of what would happen if the pumping of money were to be curbed. One example of this development is the European Union, which did not receive very much billions of current transfers from Finland to the south. Now, however, they are being forced upon us as a necessity and in the interests of Finland. The same trend can be seen with regard to Yle. Many might have been disbeliefed if recently Yle’s cancer had been presented for more than half a billion euros a year from a common bag collected by taxpayers. Now, however, that is the case. Many might have viewed it as disbelief if Yle had recently been presented as competing with the full force of private newspaper houses that are at the same time fighting their battle for survival. Now, however, this is happening in practice when, with unfair competition, the giant Yle offers content comparable to a digital magazine on the taxpayers' side. At the same time, newspaper houses strive to hold on to their last subscribers and transfer their content to a pay digital format. Mr President! One of the ultimate purposes of Yle is to ensure a wide range of information for citizens. In view of the development of Yle's activities, it is appropriate to examine critically whether Yle really strengthens public access to information and whether the content offered is indeed diverse. In the context of the provision of text-based newscasting Yle is taking up space from private operators, there is a risk that public information will be weakened when newspaper houses have to punch a note on the hatch. When Yle as a whole has 3,000 employees, the same number of journalists from all Finnish newspapers and magazines will be left together in just a few years' time. The best guarantee for a wide range of information would be a versatile media field, not one large Yle. Yle should only operate in those areas where there is a market failure to produce sufficient text content, such as Sámi content. Yle has a long history of party color, and the diversity of content can be varied even today. For many citizens, Yle’s activities seem more like being the voice of the Green Left, which there is no desire to finance. Instead of threatening Finland to drift without Yle to a situation such as the USA's, party-politicalised media houses, we should be even more frightened if there is only one of those political media houses. Neither is in Finland’s interest, and to avoid these, a stricter limitation of Yle’s activities and funding is required. I support the government's proposal. [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola : and representative... ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u214	Thank you. And I'm sorry to interrupt when I thought you'd quit. — Representative Holopainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, please. Of course, this raises questions as to why such a response has been given to this change, and concerns have also been raised that this review, which has been given to Finland, has considered too many aspects of competition law, while there are many other important aspects of information and the right of people to information free of charge. It is difficult to see the benefits of this now, even though there has certainly been an effort to safeguard Yle's activities. If you think that we have certain activities that are forced to be financed by public funds, then there are many, such as education, education that do not work on commercial terms. Similarly, we have research, and in many ways journalism and, in particular, investigative journalism, which certainly cannot find commercial funding, is compared to the fact that we also have publicly funded research.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u221	And Minister Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u222	Mr President! Very good speeches have been made here. I shall comment briefly on them: Mr Purra made a good point about the problems of this extensive text publication of YLE. Similarly, Mr Essayah was also very good at defending why this delimitation has been made just as it has been done. There is cause for concern about the vitality of domestic regional information, and that is why, for the first time in the Ministry of Transport and Communications, we have then shared support for media content, domestic media content, and the working group is currently considering such broader support for journalism. Perhaps my former profession will then give some thought to the fact that, in fact, resource cuts create a temptation for YLE to correct a little cheaper production, for instead of going out with a camera person to the world to do the news and edit it for the broadcast, 20 small news items will be made at its terminal during that time. So I might have to say that Yle has to have the resources to make expensive journalism. Then self-discipline and fair play can be required. Mr Satonen rightly drew attention to the fact that the main competitor of domestic commercial communications is international commercial communications, if you can now even talk about communication in connection with these digital platforms that absorb advertising networks. Now the EU has finally adopted two important regulations, which will also become known to Finland in relation to digital services, and which will then regulate the rules of the game on what would be published there, and flagrant illegalities will finally be addressed. The fate of President Trump's Twitter account is a good example of this: by the rules rather than by the will of some big company. And another important regulation concerns the digital market, which will then try to constrain these major gatekeepers, who are a genuine threat to a competitive market economy. In this respect, I agree with Mr Tynkkysen's pro-European point of view in that he praised these restrictions on Yle imposed by the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u223	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended and the proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after the other items of the order of business have been closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u224	We will now resume the debate on item 14 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session. — — — — Congressman Pitko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u225	Madam President! This amendment to the Yle law has indeed been, and indeed has been, caused by the fact that our current Yle law is not in line with EU regulation and has indeed been appealed to the European Commission. I think that this amendment of the law should not be done without having to do so. I do not believe that it will improve the operating conditions of the media or increase the quality of journalism, but, at its worst, it will reduce it. Media conditions and high-quality journalism are things that we want to safeguard, and certainly in this Chamber that is our common concern when we know how, for example, media funding has decreased in the long term. But what I see as essential is that this change in the law does not necessarily lead to a reduction in activity but, at best, changes its shape. We are not cutting the funding for Yle, for example, through this, and that is an essential element, even though some of the activities will be prohibited by law. The content of the text will be reduced, but on the other hand, the video and audio format will be able to reach the ever-new knowledge-seeking citizens, and I certainly want to count on that if this law is adopted. The preconditions for the general to act in general in order to fulfil his important statutory task must be safeguarded, and that is, of course, our task here in Parliament. This law has now been brought to the attention of Parliament and, as has been the case with these general issues, it deserves a comprehensive and fundamental debate in committee and here in plenary, when the time comes. The feedback received has been quite critical in some places in that consultation, and we must then study these issues and points of view in committee. It is important to assess these, and I understand from the Minister's mouth that, however, this change of law that is now being tabled is the least bad thing that will enable us to fulfil these obligations from the Commission so that we can achieve this level of EU regulation. If this is the least evil, then it must be done, but it is certainly also up to the committee to clarify it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u226	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u227	Madam President! The purpose of the bill is to define the textual content of Yle in more detail, and YLE itself supports this detailed proposal. There have also been conflicting, different views along the way, and the Media Federation has also wanted to make its contribution to the motion. This proposal has been the subject of parliamentary debate with the parliamentary groups, and on the basis of that, the Ministry of Transport and Communications has made this bill. In my opinion, the bill is good and balanced. We are currently living in a constantly changing society, and there is also information and news in it, that is a fact. It is a very good thing that this has been dealt with specifically in parliamentary terms and, as I have sensed today in this debate, this bill will certainly receive support across party boundaries. It is very important to support freedom of expression and the functioning of democracy by strengthening the conditions and competitiveness of responsible media, as well as equal opportunities for citizens to gain reliable information and to educate themselves. Broadcasting plays a major role here, the independence of YLE is safeguarded, and its important role as public media serving all Finns must be further strengthened. All in all, the centre in every situation defends public information and high-quality multi-sound communication and journalism, and YLE plays an important role in this overall. It is important that YLE has regional activities and regional tasks. It has come out very well in all situations: there are sudden news stories, and that is where people are informed, and it must also be fair and fair. Healthy critical, fair, open and free information is an important part of democracy and our society, and Yle's free text production serves a very large number of citizens overall. Yes, it is also important to defend the neutral YLE. It is a parliamentary radio, and I personally hope that this government proposal will go well to the finish line.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u228	Congressman Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u229	Madam President! The present proposal aims to amend the Broadcasting Act so that the text content published by YLE is more closely linked to the content published by it with moving image or sound. The proposal therefore clarifies the role of Yle as a public service media company and amends its regulation so that it complies with EU State aid rules. As is well established with regard to matters relating to Yle, the proposal has been prepared in parliamentary cooperation. It is important to note that Yle is above all the law of Parliament. All parliamentary groups have been involved in preparing this proposal. The group presidents have negotiated this proposal in good cooperation. With the amendments now proposed to Section 7 of the Yle Act, Yle, with certain exceptions, cannot publish textual content without it being related to a mobile image or sound publication, such as a television or radio programme. Exceptions would be short text content published in cooperation with the Finnish Information Office or other national news agency, short content related to fast news situations, legal information from the authorities, text content from minority language groups and content related to culture and learning. At the same time, it will enable Yle to produce textual content as part of public service broadcasting and to clarify the operating environment of commercial media through regulation. Madam President! Commercial media have drawn attention to texts published on Yle's website, articles-like content and how Yle's public service tasks are defined by law. As a result, the EU Commission has decided that the definition of Yle's public service tasks should be specified in such a way as to reflect the general nature of the connection of the text content to the mobile image or sound service of YLE. Although this restriction is unlikely to have a major impact on the demand for online content in commercial media as such, it would nevertheless increase the certainty of commercial media companies in the future environment. In addition, in the future, commercial media could focus more on text content that YLE would no longer publish. Madam President! According to the results of the annual survey in 2019, 87 per cent of Finns rely on Yle’s news and more than half consider Yle to be the number one news actor in Finland. According to the study, Yle is still the most reliable media company in Finland, but other media have also increased their confidence. As a member of the Yle Board of Directors, I consider it particularly important that the conditions for the public service broadcasting of Yle be adhered to. Nevertheless, although the role of YLE as a public service broadcaster is clearly central in Finnish society, I consider the proposal before us a good compromise between two objectives. We must beware of the excessive confrontation, and we must also take care of the environment in which commercial media operate. Mr President! We will take this motion carefully in the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u230	The 15th item of the order of business will now be presented for the referral debate. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Harakka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u231	Mr President! The Government will propose to Parliament legislation amending the Law on improving the competitiveness of vessels used in maritime transport and Article 4 of the Maritime Pensions Act. According to the proposal, part of the law on improving the competitiveness of vessels used in maritime transport would be removed from the Act in 2016. The amendments introduced in 2016 were intended to allow marine surveying vessels to be included in the eligible activities. These amendments were then submitted for entry into force by Government Decree, since the amendment of this existing aid scheme requires the approval of the European Commission. These changes have not entered into force. Finland sent a prior notification to the European Commission in accordance with the guidelines on State aid to maritime transport. However, the Commission did not accept the amendment of the Finnish scheme, which is why it is proposed to delete the amendments. This change would have no impact on the existing operators covered by the aid. The proposal also proposes to amend the Maritime Pensions Act so that workers working on sea-measurement vessels will remain within the scope of the Maritime Pensions Act despite the above-mentioned amendment of the Law. At the same time, it is proposed to amend the legal provisions on appeals to reflect the legal status in force from 1 January 20. The laws are intended to enter into force as soon as possible. The Law amending the Maritime Pensions Act would apply from 1 January 2017 to work under the Maritime Labour Contracts Act for an employee on a Finnish ship used for systematic marine measurement activities in maritime traffic exposed to international competition. I have the courage to hope that the Committee on Transport and Communications will take a favourable view of the proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u232	I saw it, and they're hearing it now. — Chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, represented by Mr Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u233	Mr President! The present proposal would remove some of the amendments to the so-called Crew Support Act in 2016, which would also have to extend the scope of the aid to shipowners for the reduction of indirect labour costs, to sea-measurement vessels. At the same time, however, the Marine Pensions Act would be amended so that those working on sea-measurement vessels would remain subject to the Marine Pensions Act despite the amendment of the Crew Support Act. In due course, these amendments to the Law on manning aid for marine surveying vessels were submitted to later entry into force by Government decree, as the amendment of the scheme requires prior notification to the European Commission and approval of the amendment by the Commission. However, since it has now become clear that the Commission does not accept the amendment of the scheme as proposed by Finland, the amendments to the legislation which have been made conditionally must be repealed. Although the Commission itself did not object to the amendment of the scheme, it considers that Finland should also make other changes to the scheme, in particular to change the regulation to a fixed period and to abolish Finland's national flag requirement on the conditions for granting crew support. In the absence of agreement with the Commission, the amendment must be repealed. Mr President! The purpose of the crew support programme is to promote the employment of Finnish seamen and support the international competitiveness of vessels flying the Finnish flag. The competitiveness of Finnish shipping directly affects the number of Finnish seafarers employed and, more generally, the scope of the Finnish maritime cluster and the fact that expertise and expertise in the sector remain in Finland. It is also a question of security of supply that shipowners do not disembark their ships under the flags of other countries. However, the Commission's amendment would not encourage shipowners to keep their ships under the Finnish flag or to fly them to Finland, as the vessels would receive such aid despite the flag country of the vessel and the other conditions for receiving the aid are met. Therefore, the Commission's proposals could have negative consequences for both the employment of Finnish seamen and the security of supply in Finland. It is therefore essential that, in the future, if maritime subsidies are changed as proposed, these changes will be carefully assessed and prepared in advance before decision-making, in order to avoid undesirable consequences. Mr President! The second part of this proposal is the retention of seafarers working on seagoing vessels in the application of the Maritime Pensions Act. During the preparation of the present proposal, it became apparent that the 2016 proposal had already effectively introduced the Marine Pensions Act, even though the above-mentioned amendment of the Law has not entered into force. I think it is important that these workers continue to be included in the seamen's pension, above all because the amendment of the applicable pension law so soon after the previous amendment could create problems for workers with taxation and, on the other hand, because employers' contributions to those employed on seagoing vessels would increase. It is also logical that icebreaking activities and marine surveying activities that are largely comparable to those are covered by the same pension scheme. Mr President! Especially during the corona period, I am concerned about the employment of Finnish seamen as well as the security of supply in Finland, from which points of view this proposal should be supported. We will be happy to take this motion to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u234	Like this. — Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you of this new practice in this House that the mask should also be used on this platform.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u235	Ärade Herr Talman! Tack för en god presentation av Minister Harakka och av utskottets ordförande Suna Kymäläinen. Det auri gäller en ändring av lagen, men generalist kan man säga, precis som Suna Kymäläinen var inne på, att bemanningstödet är oerhört viktigt för att säkerstalla att vi har fartyg under finländsk flag. Regeringen föreslog under förra året att man retroaktivt också höjer bemanningstödet med 6 milioner euro för att hjälpa sjöfarten under coronapandemin, som hast en brutal effekt i synnerhet på passagerarsjöfarten. De rau insitserna från regeringen har variety oerhört viktiga. Också det stöd som regeringen har gett via Traficom för att upprätthålla försörjningsberedskapen har variantt oerhört viktigt och välkommet från regeringens siida. Eftersom vi diskuterar sjöfart så tänkte jag passa på att stalla Minister Harakka en fråga nu när reserrestrictionnerna igen har blivit skärpta. I dag kom Sverige också med ytterligare restrictioner med negativa coronatest, vilket kommer att påverka passagerarmängderna ytterligare i trafiken. Vi ser ljus i tunnelin med vaccineringarna, men det går långsamt och det kommer inte bli ett normalllage innan sommaren i alla fall. Finns det beredskap från regeringens siida att ännu hjälpa sjöfarten till exempel med att förlänga Traficom-stödet och också det rai bemanningstödet, att göra också någonting för det rai året för att hjälpa sjöfarten tills att vacciningen har gett effekt och normalleget kan återgå?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u236	Minister Harakka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u237	Mr President! Thank you for these good speeches, in which quality replaced quantity. It is indeed the case that such a small technical change, which has been introduced into this very important crew support law for us, must not undermine the benefits that have been in place for several years now for the staff of the marine survey institutions in relation to the pension system. Indeed, representative Kymäläinen quite rightly compared them to workers on icebreaking ships. In both cases, instead of scheduled services, these are assignments, both of which are in fact very important for Finnish shipping.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u238	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — And Minister Harakka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u239	Mr President! This next proposal may not be the hottest potato this evening, but it is in itself an important one for Parliament to approve and enforce the agreement on air transport with the Republic of Korea. Although this may not seem to be an extremely topical issue at the moment, the aim of the proposal is to obtain Parliament's approval of the agreement between Finland and South Korea on air transport and the law on the enforcement of the provisions of the agreement in the field of legislation. This is one of these numerous bilateral air transport agreements which, inter alia, agree on how and under what conditions the parties may designate airlines to exercise the traffic rights granted by the agreement. The agreement lays down the rights and obligations of airlines when operating transport. The agreement was signed in Helsinki as early as June 19. The agreement replaces the air transport agreement signed between countries in 96 and currently in force. The new agreement will remove the restrictions contained in the agreement currently in force. This new agreement takes into account the requirement of EU law for the freedom of establishment of EU airlines within the EU. Therefore, in the future, airlines with majority ownership of other EU Member States or EU citizens can also be designated from Finland to operate between Finland and South Korea and continue to do so. The agreement promotes competitiveness by improving the conditions for business and entrepreneurship and opens up new opportunities for air transport between Finland and South Korea when the time comes. The provisions of the Agreement provide carriers from both countries with reciprocal freedom to operate air services between and through them and to third countries. Here, Mr President, is a referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u240	Thank you. — and Mr Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u241	Mr President! Finland’s bilateral air transport agreements are commonplace and technical. I don't usually comment on them very much, but sometimes the exception breaks the rule. Mr President! In today's global world, it is particularly important for a small export-driven country to maintain and develop air transport relations and markets with other countries. I therefore find it very positive that this proposal would now approve a new air service agreement signed in Helsinki in summer 2019 between Finland and South Korea. This new agreement would remove some of the restrictions contained in the agreement currently in force. Under the new agreement, for example, airlines with majority ownership of both Finnish and EU Member States and EU citizens can be designated from Finland to operate between Finland and South Korea and continue to do so. The agreement therefore aims to improve the operating conditions for business and entrepreneurship and thus to improve competitiveness. In the light of the current corona pandemic in particular, it is important that when the threat of the disease gradually subsides with vaccines, the business environment is the best possible for Finland's economy to recover in the desired way. I therefore see that agreements such as this and other activities to facilitate international transport and thus trade are very welcome, hopefully, as soon as we move on to the post-care phase in the field of corona. Comprehensive air transport connections contribute to Finland’s accessibility and in this respect facilitate the operating environment not only of citizens but also of companies. Mr President! As Mr Harakka said, this may not be the hottest potato today, but I would like to say that we in the Committee on Transport and Communications will also take this proposal into due consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u242	Ledamot Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u243	Ärade Herr Talman! Sydkorea är ett mycket viktigt land och en viktig partner för Finland. Flygtrafiken mellan våra länder är normalt livlig och viktig. Före covid-19-pandemin slog till var det tänkt att Finnair vid sidan av sin dagliga rutt till Seoul också skulle öppna upp en ny linje till den vackra hamnstaden Busan där flera finländska företag också är activa. Det skulle bli den enda direkta rutten mellan Europa och Busan. Bakom öppnandet av rutten låg activt arbete från Finnairs och Finlands siida. Med communicationutskottet i riksdagen var vi i Sydkorea också 2016 och diskuterade redan då med både regeringen och företrädare för staden Busan tillsammans med Finlands dåvarande ambassadör Matti Heimonen, som i dag är protokollchef och lotsade in republicens president hit i plenisalen tidigare i dag. Det rai avtalet är viktigt för framtiden då flygtrafiken förhopningsvis ska kunna bli livlig igen mellan våra två länder, till både Seoul och Busan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u244	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u245	Mr President! Minister Harakka opened his own speech with the words that this may not be the most dramatic topic in this House today, and he probably referred to two things: Secondly, because of the corona virus, air transport is almost at a standstill in the world, and then opening up or improving air transport, creating conditions, is not a dramatic issue. It may have been that he had another idea in that when the country's name is South Korea, it is not dramatic. I would assume that there would be more drama here if the name of the country were North Korea, which means that there could be more impetus in this debate, there would be an analysis of a wide range of things, perhaps interesting ones. South Korea is one of the most industrialized countries in Asia. Four tigers were mentioned, and South Korea has been one of them — that is to say, the post-World War II period — and is still one of the leading industrial nations and, in that sense, also an interesting subject for economic interaction. But in this context it may be good to say a few words at all that Finnair has now hit the gold shampoo with regard to its Asian traffic, and in that respect it can be said that the fact that the domestic airline has done so well in the last few years is due to the fact that this direction towards Asia has been secured, and South Korea has, of course, been a single address. After all, this agreement is now aimed at removing the restrictions on cooperation between Helsinki and Seoul or, more generally, South Korea between other airlines at a natural European level. It is the normal competition, the expansion of cooperation. In return, Finnair will also have room for similar forms of cooperation on the European side. So all in all, this is the dwindling world, the integrated world. I could imagine that this agreement in the Committee on Transport, when the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Tourism was behind it, will be dealt with and approved relatively smoothly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u246	Like this. — Does Minister Harakka still want to talk to you?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-02-03-ps-2.u247	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you for the very appropriate comments that have been made by the representatives that these air transport agreements are, as it were, routinely dealt with in this Chamber and rarely raise any major debate — whatever it is that should be — but perhaps at this very time it may be quite appropriate to stop for a moment to remember that this pandemic is hopefully only a temporary phase and we are returning to the lively global transport and communication that Mr Löfström has just given a glimpse of, as it were, from a distant, past world. And it is true that once we get back to those good conditions, it is hoped that Finnair will also recover from these enormous difficulties and will be able to take advantage of the strategic expertise that Mr Kiljunen has raised and that the route to the city of Busan – which, as everyone knows, is the fifth largest container port in the world, with almost 4 million people living in it, which is therefore a very important industrial destination – will also open up.
