ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u1	The third item in the order of business is the Prime Minister's announcement of a plan to abolish restrictions and recommendations in relation to the covid-19 epidemic. Following the speech by Prime Minister Sanna Marin, I will give answers in the order I have considered. A maximum of 2 hours will be reserved for the proceedings. — — — — Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u2	Mr President! The government published 9. On 1 April, the Commission presented a draft plan to dismantle the restrictions per summer. The draft plan was also discussed together with all parliamentary parties on 8 April before its publication. In connection with the publication, a week-long open consultation of comments and opinions was launched in the Otasto service. A total of 2141 comments and opinions were received, of which 115 were delivered by the Community. In addition, 29 separate opinions were received. We also organised two hearings, one for social partners and one for municipal actors. In addition to the possibility of commenting on Otakantaa.fi, the opinion of the public on the plan was studied through a survey in order to make people's voices heard as widely as possible. An open opportunity to comment brought important points of view to the preparation. We received valuable information on how people have experienced restrictions and recommendations and the expectations of dismantling them. According to the survey, the majority of Finns were very patient about the corona epidemic and the restrictions imposed as a result. Based on the commentary round, the important themes were clearly distinguished. For example, the responses highlighted concerns about restrictions on children and young people, which were hoped to be lifted first. Clear guidelines and solutions were sought for the opening of events. Several feedback highlighted regional decision-making powers, the need to take account of regional disparities in the dismantling of restrictions and the regional allocation of restrictive measures. On the basis of the feedback received, several clarifications were made to the Government’s plan. On 20 April, the Government approved the plan in its negotiations. Mr President! The aim of the plan is to serve as an indicative tool for the government and regional authorities to manage and phase out restrictions and to create a view of the coming months for citizens, businesses and communities. Restrictions cannot be lifted carelessly or prematurely. Controlled dismantling of restrictions requires that we all take responsibility for complying with existing restrictions and recommendations. If we manage to keep the epidemic under control now, restrictions can be lifted as spring progresses and summer comes. Control of the epidemic together with the progress of vaccinations can mean a summer that is close to normal. Restrictions shall be lifted within the limits permitted by the epidemiological situation. The plans for opening up society are based on available research data, modelling, forecasting and monitoring, as well as on the overall consideration to be made on this basis. The plan includes the principles of decommitment, the epidemiological conditions, the target timetable and the stages in which the restrictions will be lifted. Restrictions will be lifted in accordance with the indicative target schedule. The guidelines for the lifting of restrictions are monthly. This is because the epidemic is difficult to predict and the epidemic situation in the different regions of the country is very different. Every two weeks, the Government evaluates the conditions for lifting the restrictions and updates the target schedule. This will enable information on the epidemiological effects of the lifting of restrictions to be utilised. If the situation improves faster than foreseen in the plan, restrictions can be lifted earlier. It is also possible that in some areas restrictions will also have to be maintained, restored or tightened again in the event of a deterioration in the epidemic situation. The key principle behind the plan is that restrictions should be lifted in reverse order, as a general rule, compared to their setting. However, the accumulated data on the effectiveness of the various restrictive measures should also be taken into account. In addition, the “Children and Youth First” principle is taken into account in the dismantling of restrictions, which will start with the activities of children and young people. The Government also considers it important to update restrictions and recommendations on the elderly on the basis of information on vaccine protection. Mr President! In its general session on Tuesday 27 April, the Government adopted regulations to abolish the use of the powers of the Emergency Act and stated that there were no longer exceptional circumstances in the country within the meaning of Article 3 of the Emergency Act. The government considers that the corona virus epidemic is manageable by the regular powers of the authorities. The number of new cases of coronavirus has clearly fallen in the last five weeks, which is a sign that the epidemic in Finland is calming down at the moment. As vaccination coverage increases, the risk of serious cases of disease and disease is also reduced. Mr President! Restaurants were opened for customers throughout Finland on 19 April. However, there are still strict restrictions on opening hours, drinking times, the presence and movement of customers on the premises of the restaurant and the number of customers. In basic education and secondary education, however, it has been possible to gradually move to contact education during April, taking care of health safety carefully, and it has been possible to continue the group activities of children and young people outside. As the epidemic situation improves further, public spaces and private spaces, such as libraries and museums, can be opened in May with health security arrangements. Group activities outside adults could also be opened at the end of May or at the beginning of June. By the end of May, traffic between border communities can also be opened at the land borders between Finland and Sweden and between Finland and Norway if the epidemic situation in the countries so permits. In June, it could be possible to reduce the restrictions on assembly and the restrictions on customer seating and opening conditions for restaurants. Competition and hobby events and summer camps for children and young people could be held outdoors. In June, leisure activities could also be organised indoors for children and young people. Public events could be organised under participant restrictions. Internal border restrictions would be relaxed by opening up commuting and family and family travel. However, there is still a long way to go to ensure the health safety of borders and the vaccine certificate will be part of travel. Finland supports and promotes the development of a joint EU vaccine certificate. Mr President! Our estimate is that in July to August, the working-age population has received the first dose of the vaccine and the elderly and at risk already receive the second dose of the vaccine. In July-August, we could reduce or even remove restrictions on meetings and restrictions on participants in public events. In August, there might also be the opening-up of commuting services in third countries, but there are still many uncertainties. In addition to the epidemic situation and vaccine coverage, the desired timetable for travel restrictions will also be affected by a common EU policy on travel from third countries. Although the epidemic situation in Finland has improved over the past few weeks, we must also be prepared to make the situation worse. In addition, the situation in neighbouring countries should be closely monitored. Each of us can make a responsible contribution by acting that summer would be better for all of us. The Government also regularly monitors the situation throughout the summer, and there is a readiness to react quickly if necessary. It is possible that, for example, at the end of August, the number of infections may gradually increase as contacts, especially in educational institutions and workplaces, increase. Preparations and plans for the autumn epidemic will be examined at the latest at the beginning of August.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u3	Like this. Now we are going to move on to the debate, and I would now like to ask those Members who wish to speak in response to the debate to stand up and to reserve the floor using the V button. — The debate is opened by Mr Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u5	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u6	Mr President! We all hope that the good development of corona infections will continue and that we will really get out of this discipline. At the same time, however, it should be noted that, in fact, the world has a record of the number of people who have died in the last week, and it is quite possible that in August-September we will need very specific rules on travel in order to keep the situation good in Finland. How is it possible, good government, that in the newspapers of the day before yesterday, officials from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health said that there was a working group which looked at various options to ensure the safety of corona at borders? This has been a year since we were wondering whether a test could be carried out in the country of origin, whether a certificate could be required — other Nordic countries already do so. Can't the government finally shut down the task force and make sure,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u7	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u8	Madam President! It is wonderful that we have gathered here to discuss the exit plan. We now have 13 months behind this corona crisis, and now we are talking here about a way out of that crisis. After all, Finland has done well with all the indicators. We have had difficult stages, but now in the last five weeks our incidence rate has come down from level 173, and the last one is, as far as I know, 64. But just as the Prime Minister pointed out here, we still have reason to be cautious. Last time, for example, there have been serious clusters of diseases in the Tornio region. 6 of our 21 medical districts are still in the presence of more than 50 and 15 are below. I would like to point out in particular that there is perhaps a strong international economic boom ahead of us now that this exit is in every country, with the exception of certain countries that have been mentioned here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u9	Congressman Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u10	Mr President! It is excellent that this disease situation has now reached the point where we have an exit strategy that we can implement. The infection rate is decreasing, the vaccine program is progressing, we are heading towards the summer, and people are in a much brighter mood. At the same time, however, it is worth remembering that we have many areas of activity which still face enormous distress, tens of thousands of unemployed people. That is why I would point out that it is important that, in conjunction with this strategy, we should be able to create a clear programme on how Finland opens up opportunities to travel not only from Finland but especially to Finland from abroad. This would allow us to give a clear date when we have a system in place, so that those with a vaccine or a negative test result or a certificate of a disease can get here in Finland, and the tourism industry could start selling and give them a light for the future too. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u12	Congressman Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u13	Mr President! Finland has survived this pandemic, this crisis, well in relation to the situation, and thank you not only to the Government but also to all the groups in this Chamber and, of course, to all the Finns who have taken responsibility together in a difficult situation. It has now been decided to abandon the exceptional circumstances, but the debt of care and learning resulting from the interest rate will be closed for a long time to come. This is a good plan. It is necessary and we must take the road to recovery by supporting those most affected by the epidemic. Children and young people and students have borne a disproportionate burden on the consequences of interest rate measures, and the fear is that the biggest debt of this time will be the debt paid in the welfare and learning of children and young people. That is why it is important and right that restrictions should now be lifted in accordance with the first principle of children and young people: schools should be opened and a hobby should be available early in the summer, and at the latest in the autumn everyone should have access to contact education.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u14	Congressman Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u15	Madam President! The interest crisis has been seen as the worst crisis since the war, and this crisis is still not over. From that point of view, it is extremely important that we have a functioning government. We will have to make decisions this spring and, hopefully, when the vaccine coverage is sufficient, we will also need a major after-treatment programme. We have a lack of learning from distance learning, a lack of care from corona activities, and a functioning government is needed for this post-school care.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u18	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u19	Irade the Talman! Just as Mr Lindén said, we have been doing well. It is a good thing to remember this in all the day-to-day political debate. The fact that we are also in vaccination at the top of Europe makes it possible to talk here about an exit strategy. At times, when restrictions were agreed, rather blunt tools had to be used, sometimes even a sledgehammer. Now that we are going to dismantle, we should look at the fineness that can be found, even in the event, restaurant or cultural sector, to carefully assess the risks and opportunities of different events. In Barcelona, there was recently a concert in which various security arrangements were followed, and it turned out to be safe. Now that the cultural world, events, all sorts of things are being opened up, all these experiences should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u22	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u23	Madam President! Thank you, Prime Minister, for the announcement. The main tool of the Exit plan is the availability and adequacy of vaccines. At Question Time on 15 April, Mr Kiuru, Minister for Family and Basic Services, said that Finland was going to approach Russia to obtain Sputnik vaccines. But it is good to remember that the European Medicines Agency (EMA) has not yet approved the product in question, and secondly, it will be a long summer before the delivery of the vaccine in question can begin at all. A couple of weeks ago I reminded both Minister Kiuru and Minister Haavisto that Finland would be able to order a larger batch of Pfizer vaccines during April. I would like to ask the government: if Germany and other EU countries can negotiate and trade vaccines through their own direct channels,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u25	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u26	Madam President! Now that the government crisis is beginning to be over, we can concentrate here on the health and safety of our citizens, and I too want to focus on these limits. After all, Indian virus variants have just been discovered in Sweden, and northern Sweden is already in crisis. At the same time as many countries react to this, according to press reports, the Finnish Government is considering it. For months you have also considered a certificate of advance testing. The explanations vary, but the result is the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u27	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u28	Mr President! In March 2021, the Parliament approved the amendments to Articles 16 and 22 of the Act on Contagious Diseases, and the declaration was adopted that ‘the Commission would require the government to take immediate action to set up a procedure to prevent the spread of a generally dangerous disease,and that traffic volumes are increasing in the future in border traffic’. But nothing has happened to this. We still do not have a model for the borders in which to prepare for increasing traffic volumes – for example, Vantaa and the City of Helsinki have expressed their concerns. In Tornio, too, the number of infections is constantly increasing. We need to find a more functional system. At the moment the traffic volume is low, but when it grows, it will certainly come from a variant of India if we do not have
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u31	Congressman Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u32	Mr President! Over-legalisation has often been discussed during this pandemic, the fact that the necessary measures become difficult due to legal proceedings. One reason for this is that these basic laws, the Act on Preparedness and the Act on Disease Control are not up-to-date, or at least now it has been found that there should be much clearer and wider powers for rapid action, and of course that is why, a year ago, a lot has been said about the need to renew them, but that will only happen once we have dealt with this acute situation. Now that these modifications make it clear that this will take much longer than expected, it would be reasonable, however, to renew these basic standards for the future during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u35	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u36	Madam President! This pandemic has now been celebrated for about a year, and the overall assessment must say that the government has done reasonably well in these interest rate measures and the situation is so good that we can gradually consider giving up these restrictive measures. [MikaNiikkoarvo]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u37	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u38	Madam President! Thank you for doing the social work for the nurses, thanks to the cops, the rescuers, the paramedics. I remember the first call when the paramedics received these orders to go and pick up corona patients and they were really scared of where they were going. The crisis is well under way, and I think the government can also thank the social workers. But what about when we head for the summer? There have now been messages that, among other things, nurses’ summer holidays have been shortened so that they can, among other things, only take a three-week leave at a time, which means that there is a huge lack of a person. Now, for God knows how many times, what are you going to do about this shortage of staff? Is there a thank-you, corona supplement for the nurses? I also ask that when we have a lot of people at home who are waiting to get back to work, there are laid off, so how do you now support Finnish enterprise and jobs so that people can go back to work? Is it true that Finland is the third least supportive country in the midst of this corona crisis?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u39	Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Koskinen and Mr Kopra raised an important question, that we clearly need, from the point of view of the Constitutional Committee, to review and recast the preparedness legislation in this country and to prepare for such situations. I also think it was important to note in Mr Kopra's speech that our administration's arrangements and structures include this sort of siloming, which hinders unified management, uniform handling of matters, especially in situations like this, where quick decision-making is needed. And for this reason, I think it would be sensible for this matter, this reform of the administration, to be set up as quickly as possible by Parliament. When this current government was being built, we had to wonder whether time would be spent on reforming the structures of the regime and it was said that the parliamentary term would be a very short time for this to be reformed and it would require parliamentary strength.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u41	Congressman Kosonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u42	Madam President! This exit plan is really expected and great that it is here now also for all of us to discuss. It is particularly important that children and young people are placed here in the first place and in the first place, and for that a big thank you to the government. I would also say that it is excellent that culture, sports events and activities have been given priority. But I still ask, when the restaurants are already open and cultural events can be arranged a little later, whether it would be possible to put these on the same line, that when you gather in certain premises, for example, at the restaurant, at the time of eating, then you could also enjoy cultural dishes in the form of performers, for example, and so forth. I think that would be reasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u43	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u44	Madam President! The whole of Finland is waiting to open up our country, and that must of course be done in a health-proof way. My question is: Mr Marin, why are you holding back this opening up of Finland? If we were to use the corona pass, we could open our country to hundreds of thousands of people who have been vaccinated, tested negative, or who have suffered from this corona disease. We could open the country faster than we did when the general restrictions were lifted. There was a lack of movement, loneliness, unemployment, we know that they are very expensive. This resistance of the government to the corona pass is, of course, brutally heartless in view of the bankrupt companies and people who are out of work and, for example, the elderly who have been isolated for almost a year. You are about to introduce a corona passport at EU level, but at home you see obstacles that are not being introduced. My question is: have you now given the mandate to THL and Kela to prepare this passport? Is it coming into use? And if not,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u45	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday, HUS Chief Medical Officer Eero Hirvensalo told at the A-Studio that it is practically impossible to cope with this legislation and with this test method if passengers enter the country, and he was very busy and hoping for legislation on the early resolution of the disease. In fact, it has been promised many times now, and now tell this to Parliament and all the listeners when it will come to the House. The second thing I didn't notice the Prime Minister talking about is the municipality field of the future. I was looking at that statement from the Association of Local and Regional Authorities on the future, and they stress that municipalities are in trouble and one-off items have last year and this year has been somewhat compensated but there are tasks that are not always fully compensated. The Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities also hopes that full funding will be provided if additional tasks are required.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u47	Congressman Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u48	Madam President! It has been an honor to be Finnish in the Korona era. Estimated by almost any measure, we have succeeded well, whether it is measured by corona infections, corona deaths, the attainment of vaccination coverage or economic effects — all indicators have worked well. If this is the corona hysteria, I can tell you that the corona hysteria has certainly been worth it. But, of course, we have not survived this epidemic with dry feet, like no country, but the situation is that there has been a reduction in the number of infections and there is light at the end of the tunnel, and there is great optimism in people's speeches. We're getting better. Children and young people in these demolition operations are a priority, and that is the way it should be. Childhood and youth are lived only once, and they have every right to be at the forefront now that these demolition activities are being considered — thanks to the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u49	Congressman Sankelo. — Is Mr Sankelo present? I don't think so. — Mr Satonen, who is here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u51	Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u52	Madam President! Prime Minister, you have just said here that internal border controls will be abolished when the situation of infection on both sides of the border is made easier, but health safety continues to be maintained at border crossings. I am talking about this Tornio-Haaparanta situation. At present, there are more than 2,000 people per day from there, and there is a Border Guard asking for these advance certificates, and those who do not have will then be referred to the tests. Three to four per cent of them still do not agree to this test and it is still not mandatory, so I would just point out that there is a virus port open all the time. But my real question is that when internal border control ends, the border guards will leave the area. Who will check these prior certificates, and who will direct the tests? There's 20,000 people coming out of there in a normal situation every day. That's the first question. [The President knocks ] The second question is: why is this preliminary test or testing at the border still not mandatory at this border?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u53	Congressman Juuso, we should be able to survive this by one minute. — And now, Mr False.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u54	Mr President! I am very surprised that, at this stage, the interest rate and the necessary measures to prevent it are still being underestimated. Health professionals working in the front line are the best group to tell us how dangerous and serious the disease is. Doubts, including Congressman Tavio, ask them. It is true that, despite a more peaceful phase, we must be prepared for a new wave, but fortunately, we now have tried out the measures that will enable us to fight if this disease again. [of the group of Finns: Nurses are not!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u55	Congressman Huttunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u56	Mr President! The interest-rate crisis and the restrictive measures taken to combat it have hit businesses and businesses hard, especially restaurants and the event sector. Now that the restrictions are being lifted — it is great that we are able to discuss this exit here today — the time has come for reconstruction. There is hope that reconstruction and a new future will also be expected in the world. Here in Finland, we have every opportunity to get involved in this growth, and now we have to make sure that no Finn stays on the starting racks. Growth will bring welcome relief to entrepreneurs who have suffered from these necessary measures. After-care of the interest rate is also essential to help those entrepreneurs and those sectors where the situation is difficult when Finland opens up after the interest rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u57	Congressman Koponen, Noora.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u58	Mr President! The government's exit plan is good, and it is particularly important that this is the time for children and young people. Recent studies indicate that learning differences between children and young people have increased during the period of the interest rate and that their ability to cope has deteriorated overall. Schooling has become difficult for many children and young people, even impossible for some. In particular, the situation of pupils in need of support has been very difficult, as it is almost impossible to implement adequate support at a distance. In many families, support for a student has been left to parents. A large proportion of children and young people have also experienced distance learning as a result of mental pregnancy. Also, lack of physical activity is evident in their health. Students have experienced not only fatigue but also loneliness and outsiders. All of this also creates a sense of insecurity for young people. It is particularly important for schools to be able to return to local education as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u59	Congressman Ikonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u60	Mr President! It is great that we can finally look at this acute crisis response to Finland's opening up. There is one thing, however, that could jeopardise the success of this. Until now, the weak link in the interest rate crisis has been the health safety of the borders, and failure there could be the greatest risk of opening up Finland as well. While the daily lives of Finns have now been restricted in a number of ways over the past year, the borders have had to bleed into corona and more easily spread mutations have been able to land. Although there is light in the situation in Finland at the moment and we can start opening restrictions, this virus has not been overcome in the world, on the contrary. That is why it is absolutely necessary to put the health safety of our borders in order before they are opened up more widely. The issue has been raised many times today in this debate, and the solutions are still too open. In addition to the mandatory tests, a systematic requirement for a fresh negative prior test certificate for entry into the border is required.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u61	Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u62	Mr President! Finland needs a new road towards normality. This Corona-Exit plan also responds to this need. Mr President! Apart from the fact that we are now creating plans to dismantle the restrictions, we need plans and measures to remedy the damage caused by the interest rate. We have a learning deficit to deal with, we have a care debt to cover, we have unemployment to deal with. The economy and employment cannot recover if people's well-being, their ability to work and their skills are not taken care of. Mr President! The fight against Korona has been relatively successful in Finland, and fortunately we have a government in which I believe there is understanding, desire and ability to support the recovery of society as well. Mr President! In a crisis situation and in order to recover from the crisis, Finland and Europe now need political stability and decision-making capacity, and fortunately this is also the case in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u63	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u64	Madam President! The Children First principle is good, because children and young people have suffered, but it must be noted that the isolation of elderly people living alone for more than a year also affects both mental and physical capacity and can still make a significant fall for both their well-being and society. And after much of the elderly have already been vaccinated, would it not be time to open up opportunities for them soon and also organise active rehabilitation for them? The second point relates to the fact that some of the interest rate restrictions are also inappropriately targeted at sports services, such as the closure of sports facilities that have been able to organise activities with limited health security. The decrease in physical activity also as a result of teleworking has increased the risk of a deterioration in the condition of Finns, especially young people. What are we going to do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u65	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u66	Madam President! I am a little concerned about the government's choice of values in order of these priorities. We hear a lot of justifiable speeches about the need for culture and art exhibitions, but we hear less about supporting these marginalised young people and young people in need of psychological assistance. I would have asked the Prime Minister that. [MariaGuzenina’s interlude] And the second question is why only EUR 18.5 million was made available for physical exercise. Why is it less valuable to move than these festivals and these exhibitions and these art events? I think there's a big conflict of values here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u67	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u68	Mr President! This country needs reconciliation, stability and a clear way out, and I am pleased to see that the Government Five is sitting in the ministerial box today after difficult negotiations. It's great that we're already at this point and we're planning an ex-wife. I myself was thinking about the transgenic virus, and I am concerned that there has been talk that a third vaccination might be needed as an effect, and I was thinking that now is the time for us Finns to see how we could improve our own vaccine production in order to be more prepared for all of this. At the same time, I would like to highlight the 400,000 Finns who have lost their credit records. It would be great, Minister Henriksson, to have a shortening of the default marking now, so that this workforce reserve can be revived as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u69	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u70	Madam President! It is good that the exit strategy has been developed and is being carried forward in a controlled and controlled manner. It is clear that this huge pandemic, which has been tested by the whole world, will one day also begin to subdue and will gradually return to normal life. Companies are starting to operate, and in the direction that the economy is actually starting to work at a much higher level than it is now, there are good expectations. Madam President! I hope that, at this stage, account will be taken of the fact that, in this situation, there is a great deal of emphasis on the individual's own responsibility. It cannot be thought that we are going to the numbs and the squares over there, and we do not care about breathing protection and hygiene in general, or that the safety gap is forgotten. Of course not. The situation is by no means over, so it is worth remembering the basic fact that your own behaviour and your own reasonable thinking in all situations is a good thing. I believe that Finns can do it, but it is worth highlighting it from time to time,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u71	At this point, I give the floor to Minister Kiuru. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u72	Mr President! Thank you for the good points of view for this exit discussion. Firstly, it is good to say that the epidemic is shrinking at the moment, but it is not over yet. Incidence in the 62nd class tells us that we have managed to balance this difficult epidemic situation this spring, but we still have problems with the regions that are more than 50 at present, and there are still too many of them in Finland. I therefore answer Mr Tavio's question as to why there was an attempt in Finland to ensure that these restrictions could still be specified in these very difficult epidemic areas, and that story is now the story of the whole parliament. Of course, we are in a position to manage with these instruments that we now have, and it is to be hoped that these regions will have the same tolerance as we had last summer, but from the point of view of these regions the situation is more challenging than other regions. Here are some good examples from different administrations of all the tips and other points that will be brought up there. Then the reconstruction. The issue of reconstruction was raised by Mr Arhinmäki in this debate. There were also good points of view here at Kari, Räsänen and Niiko. We have two of the most important groups in which we must be able to do this reconstruction with particular care: the first group is those at risk who have been in practice at home for more than a year. We owe that debt to Finns over 70 years of age and to those people who have some serious illness. They have been genuinely out of range from a functional point of view. The second group is children and young people. That is what we have discussed a great deal in this Chamber, and it also involves our continuing to contribute to the implementation of the care guarantee so that these problems can also be addressed and the real money will be used to correct that pressure because of the accumulation of the service debt. We particularly regard mental health problems as important, but also all the problems that have been caused by these groups in particular, and we must be able to respond to this. Furthermore, as Minister for the Family, I believe that we also owe a great deal of money to families. Families have had a very difficult time over the past year, and it is essential to find ways of supporting parenthood more in this difficult time. This is an important entity in the reconstruction that the government will be familiar with in due course. We have already been targeted — contrary to what Niikko has said — also on mental health services and the promotion of many other children and young people’s functional capacity. [Department:How much? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u73	Congressman Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u79	Congressman Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u80	Mr President! Culture plays an extremely important role in the well-being of people and also in the resilience of the mental crisis. I find it a little sad that in this Chamber we start to contrast the well-being and culture of children and young people, for example, with sports and culture. All of this is needed. I think it is very important that culture and events should be one of the first to open up, as the disease situation makes it possible, and that every means be put in place to achieve this. I myself have been thinking about the idea raised by Mr Kosonen that restaurants can enjoy not only food but also culture. The economic importance of the creative industries is very great, but this year has also been for the very individual people who work in that sector, really devastating. In the government, we agreed on this EUR 230 million aid package, and I think it is very important that these aids are now being swiftly and fairly mobilised, and it is, of course, a relief to know that the government will continue its work. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u81	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u82	Madam President! It is a great thing that we are now dealing with this exit plan. Here, Minister Kiuru, the entire parliament demands such a requirement for prior test certificates at the borders. STM opposed it for a long time when it imagined that it was a fundamental right restriction when a foreigner was required to come to Finland with such a certificate. Well now, among other things, constitutional expert Kimmo Sasi has written that it is not a fundamental right restriction, and I understand that you have believed this. Well, since then, STM's Chief of Staff, Varhila, said yesterday at Studio A that there have been new legal problems. - Of course. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u84	Congressman Berg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u85	Mr President! It is very nice that the corona tunnel now has light at its end and we can plan to dismantle the restrictions, but it is up to us all what kind of summer we have ahead of us. The controlled dismantling of restrictions will continue to require responsibility on all of us, compliance with existing restrictions and, in particular, recommendations. I agree with the Government's view that dismantling operations should start with those groups to which the restrictive measures have put a particular burden. Dismantling must start with services and hobby activities for children and young people. It is also important to update the restrictions and recommendations for older people on the basis of information on vaccination protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u86	Congressman Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u87	Mr President! A week or so ago, I sent a petition to the whole parliament so that everyone would watch the interview with researcher Kalevi Korenno. It is clear from this interview that these exceptional measures have been completely unfounded and should have been put to an end a long time ago. The interview also shows that all the ingredients in corona vaccines are toxic to humans and that they reduce their natural resistance and can lead to very serious health problems. Parliament's activities should be protected in all possible situations, but we are still about to start vaccinations with these questionable vaccines, the manufacturers of which have no responsibility for their consequences.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u88	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u89	Madam President! The exit plan offers us a truly necessary view of the out of the corona crisis. I am particularly concerned about children and young people and their accumulated welfare and learning debt. For example, this morning’s news reported that one in ten young people in the HUS area are already a customer of juvenile psychiatry. The adequacy of the service must be ensured in the long term. Similarly, there is a message from upper secondary schools that there is an increasing number of dropouts of long-term maths. Accurate learning debt requires several years of exhaustion and sufficient resources to do so. It is also good that summer outdoor and leisure activities, camps, this youth activity, are made possible. At the same time, I am also concerned about the fight against the disease in the world. The ferocious situation in India and Brazil is worrying, and the WHO has announced global justice,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u90	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u91	Mr President! Thank you to all Finns that the situation is better in Finland every day with regard to the interest rate. And thank you also to all the employees of the municipalities and hospital districts that the vaccinations are progressing well. It is really important that we have a view of the future that creates hope. However, as early as May there are plans to introduce restrictions on passenger transport, and Minister Kiuru has just told us that these new articles are now being prepared. Yesterday, my home city of Vantaa, together with the City of Helsinki, Finavia, Finnair and the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa — and experts from the Regional State Administrative Agency for Southern Finland and THL — have presented a joint proposal on the organisation of health-safe entry. This presentation is therefore under the leadership of Eero Hirvensalo and is thorough and detailed. According to the proposal, passengers' health must be ensured already in the country of departure when ticket checks are carried out, and the aim is therefore to ensure that passengers are healthy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u92	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u93	Madam President! It is always good to highlight information, as is the case with these issues of corona and vaccines. People are very interested in this current situation of vaccines: where are we going, what are we going to do in different regions, but there are still some inequalities in different regions. Somewhere better vaccinated and not enough vaccines have been given in some places. This is interesting, as is the fact that when the first dose has been given to a person, what can be done then: what effect does it have on whether to go out a little more freely? That such things as general information I would like more. And the information on the vaccination coverage for the different professions has also been a little vague. I would like to see more out of these things. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u94	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u95	Madam President! Here, when you listen to the opposition’s speeches — more specifically the speeches made by the Finns of Peru — you might imagine that everything in Finland has gone to the print shop in the last few months.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u98	And now, Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u99	Madam President! The state of emergency has been dismantled and restrictions are being lifted — it has really been expected. There have also been many challenges along the way in understanding the message correctly, communicating all in all, as well as testing from time to time. Now that restrictions are being lifted, it would be very important for each of us citizens to understand that the full responsibility for the spread of the virus and the infection rests with each of us. I would like to ask the government: what kind of efforts have you made to ensure that every citizen understands this great responsibility and implements it during the summer? On the other hand: when do we get the rapid tests to be widely used, including breath tests, because that would be the solution to many situations? And we are also waiting for an answer on the direct procurement of vaccinations so that we can:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u100	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u101	Mr President! On many occasions, we in the Coalition Party, including Mr Sarkomaa here, have called for the introduction of a corona passport in Finland. It could well answer the questions raised by Mr Räsänen, that the elderly have long been isolated and excluded from the various activities of society, and they would be among the first to be able to access various services. Mr President! My real question is about starting my own vaccine production. As we are moving towards light and better with this corona, we must also see what lessons can be learned from this situation and how our security of supply can be improved. I would ask you, Prime Minister: has it been considered that vaccine production should be started in Finland, for example, on a licence or on the basis of its own product development, either in Finland or in cooperation with other Nordic countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u102	Congressman Salmonkoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u103	Mr President! It is great that the vaccine coverage is progressing well and we now have the opportunity to discuss the exit plan. It is important that the children have been well taken into account in the government's plan. Children also need substantial support as a follow-up to the crisis. However, the cultural sector has been suffering from a pandemic for over a year and is still closed. The new support package for the cultural sector is very important, and for that I would like to thank you very much. But one of the wonders, though, is. Why haven't the theaters and concerts opened up yet, even though the restaurants already did? Different sectors and industries must be treated equally. In the autumn, when theatres and concerts were allowed to be open in health-proof areas, security intervals and masks, there were no reports of infections. It is important to encourage cultural events to begin as soon as possible, of course above health safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u104	Secretary Henrikson, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u106	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u107	Mr President! I would have missed this area of culture, event and restaurant in the preparation of the exit strategy in order to achieve a good opening strategy in these areas, but this is particularly lacking in border security. Yesterday, a team coordinated by the City of Vantaa, chaired by Chief Medical Officer Hirvensalo of HUS, suggested that in future entry would be subject to a negative disease test, a certificate of disease or a vaccine certificate that was checked in the country of origin, is therefore not equivalent in Finland. In addition, the Finetry web base created by HUS should also be quickly introduced throughout the country. However, in yesterday's A-Studio, the Chief of Staff of the STM opposed this idea, so I would now like to ask why the government does not get this limitless thing in order,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u108	Let us take a few speeches and then let us add more ministers. — Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u109	Mr President! There has been an understatement here about the importance of culture, or at least I heard it myself, and yet there is much evidence and practical experience of the health and well-being effects of culture and art. For example, the World Health Organization’s comprehensive WHO study report shows that art activities improve health and well-being, prevent and treat numerous mental illnesses and help cope with acute and chronic diseases. In recovering from crises, culture and art have also been found to be an impressive habit. Investing in and enabling more people to invest in art and culture will also prevent future social and health costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u112	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u113	Mr President! The fact that we are talking today about an exit strategy is an excellent thing, and of course the government and the Finnish people will be commended for this opportunity to speak today. I think there are a lot of good questions here about these pains that have been learned during this year, and I hope they will also be learned from them. There has also been a lot of talk here about the field of events, about culture, and the government has now created a separate event guarantee to help actors in the field of events. Unfortunately, on the basis of the draft proposal before us today, there are still major shortcomings. In particular, it is curious that all year round performance, concert or theatre activities and serial sporting events would not be covered by the event guarantee. That is why I would like to ask the government: are there any changes to the original demarcation of the beneficiaries?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u114	Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u115	Madam President! Here, too, we must give a big thank-you to all Finns that we can now be in this context to discuss the bite, how we can move forward in this strategy, precisely so that people can meet again. The opening of different events, the hobbies of children and young people and the opportunity to meet especially close relatives, elderly people have been waiting for, Finns have been taking it for over a year, and it certainly has touched us all. A big thank you to the government, of course, for the fact that we are in this situation now, for the big decisions that have been taken in the government, but above all it is thanks to all Finns. The availability of the vaccine has been much discussed, and I personally hope that attention will be paid to it in the future and that people will also receive the vaccine. It will already have a positive effect on people, citizens, if you get it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u116	There will be two more speeches and then I will give the floor to Minister Kiuru when he has to leave. Next, Mr Tavio and then Mr Rehn-Kivi, and then Minister Kiuru. — Mr Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u117	Madam Speaker! True Finns take for granted the importance of culture and especially the field of events. In fact, almost a year ago, in May, we presented special support for the event, but the government here completely blew it up. It has been almost a year, and perhaps now we will finally get that support, but it is a year late. We must also pay attention to whether all these events, in fact culture, even though art exhibitions or theatre performances, have even been necessary, or whether they could have been arranged safely by the industry's own control? This is something that needs to be considered in the future. It's a good thing it was even taken into account in this exit strategy. In addition to this, however, the Finns have stressed that the mental health sector, children and young people, as well as physical activity, the exercise of everyone, must not be overlooked at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u118	Congressman Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u119	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Throughout the pandemic, the government has done good work to prevent the spread of the disease. However, many suffer from both direct and indirect physical or mental nausea, and many have been at stake. Therefore, the exit plan should also include measures to remedy these damage.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u120	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Mykkänen and Mrs Wallinheimi for their understanding of the situation that you raised first of all the fact that, in the world where exit plans have been built, the situation could also have changed without helping, and that has led to the exit plans being redesigned. On the other hand, at the same time it is important that we should only talk about the exit now that our disease situation has improved so much. I think it's important to note that. This is a good situation picture to share in this Chamber as well. We therefore have six areas which are in the process of spreading, and there are still seven regions where more than 50 occur. There may not be a tolerance phase for these regions if we do not do this work long-term, so that this development can now continue and the restrictions will not be dismantled too soon or too quickly. There is now a programme that we should commit ourselves to this big picture so that these regions too can be tolerated. Well then there was this whole of vaccines: First of all, thanks to Mr. Tanus for the fact that emphasising the responsibility of Finns is the most important part of our success. The state can always do its part, and we have done our best as a government, but ultimately every man himself is a guardian of himself, and this is the excellent logic. With regard to these vaccines, we are now doing our best to allow everyone who wants to receive the vaccine, and in order for this vaccine programme to become a reality, we need as many vaccines as possible in the course of the second quartet. Many of these producers in the world cannot do this for one reason or another, and it is reasonable that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should also play a role here in doing this work for the good of the nation and conducting such negotiations. Borders have been set and the EU, through joint procurement, gives its own margins to these manufacturers, with whom vaccination agreements have already been concluded. In addition, there is currently a debate in the EU on whether further steps should be taken. To this border debate, Mr President, the important part is that the STM is doing exactly the opposite of what has now been said in this Chamber. We have given the mandate to the ministry to seek a solution for this prior test certificate to be provided as a precondition for entry.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u121	Secretary Saramo, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u122	Madam President! Here, at least, Mr Koponen and many others raised the issue of learning differences and the situation of children in need of support, and I am very pleased that Parliament has always given priority to the situation and education of children and young people, and that is where our exit strategy goes. At the same time, I would also like to remind Mr Niikko that almost a year ago, in the summer, a package of 340 million children and young people came — when it was said here that there was no money for this purpose but for culture — that is not true. And yes, even this year, a draft amending budget will then be brought out of the learning deficit patching package, so yes, these things will try as well as possible to support municipalities in managing those apprenticeships. Of course, as long as distance learning has taken place, it has also been possible to provide support, support and assistance to children at a distance, but it will only be possible to get that support properly when we are in close proximity education. And I am very pleased that there is already close-to-miss education or transition to it everywhere. We have an exceptionally large equality grant decided a few weeks ago, and it is precisely where the greatest need for support is needed: there is going to be a dimension for curators and school psychologists. There have been huge differences between municipalities. In some municipalities the situation has been reasonably good, but in others it has been even three times worse than in the best municipalities. So a lot is done not only because we have a corona, but also for other reasons. After all, the situation was already poor on the education side when the government started, and now there has been a consistent approach in all sectors to improving this situation, but it is not enough. We will have to deal with this for years to come. In short, I would have told Mr Tavio when he started this study,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u124	Minister Saarikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u125	Mr President! The importance of culture and physical activity has been highlighted in several speeches. Both have been missed during the corona period, and that is why this plan, which is now under discussion in this Chamber, highlights the fact that events and human gatherings are being opened as quickly as possible but gradually as possible. I, too, drew attention to the tone of some speeches as to whether such matters are important at all or whether Finland’s cause is at all improved by the fact that we are putting groups of people against each other, because it has been exceptionally difficult for a lot of people. It has not treated everyone in the same way: we are well-off, but there are also many groups of people for whom this has been a difficult time. And I am sure that every single Finn will enjoy the idea that if and when we manage this disease well, there will be an opportunity for theatre, concerts and movies — everything we have missed — in the summer. Mr President, this guarantee was also raised here. It is actually a matter for Minister Lintilä, but it is closely linked to both culture and sport, and that is why I am responding to it. Firstly, of course, the nature of the guarantee is such that we hope that it will not be necessary, that is to say, that everything that has been planned can be carried out. But it is backsliding from the government in the event that the event is cancelled or its size has to be reduced. The aid shall be valid until the end of this year. You asked, Mrs Wallinheimo, what about such activities as continuing sports events such as serial or club leagues. They have the possibility of their own separate support from the Ministry of Education and Culture and also from the cost support of the Ministry of Education and Culture. With all this support package for the cultural and event sector and the sports sector, which was agreed last week in the government, is 230 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u126	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u127	Madam President! You, Minister Saarikko, pointed out how people expect to get to these events. Stuba Nikula tweeted on 16 April that an hour of Pain, Province, Ilosaari Rock was cancelled — more than 10 million out of here — and a small paper mill an hour. The field of events, the event industry, has already lost EUR 2.6 billion, and the music industry loses one million every day. They canceled the Flow Festival. There are no more events that people would expect, Minister Saarikko. Mikko Kosonen stated that ‘to open up as many safe events as possible,in other cases it will sound’,and said that this preparation should take months,and that this should be used as a
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u128	Congressman Asell.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u129	Mr President! The exceptional conditions are now over, and the corona pandemic is currently on its way in Finland for the better. Our country has done well in international comparisons. We have the lowest number of corona infections in the EU countries, the lowest mortality rate relative to the population, the third lowest, and we also have the economy squatting almost less than all other countries. In addition, we have the third fastest rate of vaccination in the EU. Thank you for this, both for the timely and sufficiently effective restrictions imposed by the government and, of course, for the citizens who have followed the guidelines responsibly. Now that society is being opened up again, we must focus immediately on those most affected by the crisis. I think it is important and good that children and young people should be given priority so that primary and secondary schools can be kept open, youth activities are opened up and summer camp activities are carried out in such a way that the summer is as normal as possible for children and young people. The field of events and the cultural sector have also been major sufferers, so it is good that there are measures to:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u130	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u131	Mr President! As regards the interest rate situation, we should first of all thank the citizens, but the government's interest rate measures have not been entirely fair, effective, necessary or proportionate, such as the transfer of elections, the treatment of restaurants and the restrictions on movement. On the other hand, the borders are still loosened. In Finland, spring heat is expected to curb the covid epidemic. In India, heat does not seem to prevent the situation from becoming a disaster. When planning an exit strategy, one should bear in mind that the top of every single chain of infection is abroad. The health safety of borders must be given greater care, particularly in the regions and countries most affected by the pandemic, such as India. However, the travel instructions of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs continue to urge only to avoid unnecessary travel there. India’s virus variant seems to withstand heat very well — we cannot afford to let it into Finland. So far, neither your words nor your actions are convincing.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u132	Representative Ovaska — Representative Ovaska absent. — — — — Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u133	Mr President! It is really great that we are able to discuss the dismantling of corona restrictions. We have come out of the crisis quite well in comparison with many others — let us do it in style until the end. Yesterday, then, the government said that the emergency conditions were over. At the same time, a complete shutdown of restaurants, among other things. You can go again as long as you behave responsibly. Of course, Korona has touched us all, but I take special care of children and young people. The years of growth are a delicate time, and the mark of the corona on the young can be long. Of course, I am glad that we can talk about opening up young hobbies and family parties with our loved ones again. A very important goal is also that Finns, including the elderly,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u134	Representative Estonian.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u135	Madam President! The controlled dismantling of restrictions and the health-security opening up of this society is certainly a wish for all of us. Of course, this requires that vaccinations progress smoothly and also achieve a high level of vaccine coverage. I'm worried about the health care staff. In other words, our hospitals have not received enough vaccines and even medical staff working in university hospitals who have not been vaccinated. In addition, we must remember the health students who, in a month's time, in the last week of May, start their summer work in different health care units. I'd like to ask the government: What is the target schedule when our health care staff have been vaccinated? That is of paramount importance. When the summer vacation season begins and this round of work starts, we should have vaccinated staff. Another point to which Mr Juvonen has already referred was the lack of staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u136	Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u137	Mr President! Thank you to the government for bringing us the prospect of the future today. Much has been said about children and young people, and the pandemic has affected families in many ways. I'm the one who's worried about the families. I would also like to highlight prevention and its importance: among other things, Mr Hopsu spoke here about the unfortunate news, and now we have to react to the way in which we act and prevent these news from coming in ten years' time. Now's the time. You have to take care of your tummy babies for your grandmother. The support of families with children should be invested heavily in the coming years. Every family, child and youth must have the necessary support for their everyday challenges. Has the government planned how, for example, home aid could be increased for those families where problems already exist, that at least there will not be more of them in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u138	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u139	Madam President! Several colleagues have already highlighted the need to dismantle restrictions on exercise activities for children and young people and the importance of enabling children and young people to return to these activities. There has been a lot of feedback from citizens about the phase-out and schedule that why an adult can go to a bar at the moment children and young people over 12 years of age are not yet allowed to go to a sports club. The timetable for dismantling the restrictions on physical activity and sport must be strictly proportionate to the rest of society's timetable. I would have liked to ask the minister in question: as Finnish sports and sports organisations approached the government and hoped for further reflection on this process, in what way has the government responded to this? After all, in May we had hoped that those aged 13 to 20 would already have been able to enter into full competition, both indoors and outdoors.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u140	Congressman Holopainen, Hanna.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u141	Mr President! Measured by all indicators, Finland’s fight against corona has been an excellent success, and we now have the opportunity to deal with this exit strategy. It's been a tough time for a lot of people. The everyday life of children and young people in particular has been revolutionized and has resulted in serious mental stress. It is therefore very important that we can now secure the return of children and young people to safe and stable everyday life and that summer camps and hobbies are once again possible. It is good that we have been able to support these clubs and organisations that organise them. We now have a view of hope and a new normal. However, in the past, Korona has proved to be a very clever enemy. It is therefore important to continue to prepare for a precise response to the pandemic situation. The development and spread of viral mutations must be monitored particularly closely, and it is important to create tools at the borders that work, and good cooperation and coordination between ministries is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u142	Congressman Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u143	Honorable Speaker! First of all, at the beginning of the pandemic, a choice was made, of course, to protect citizens, to care for their well-being and to effectively prevent the spread of the epidemic. The second stage will then support the economy. Guarantee decisions, development aid, point-by-point subsidies, general aid in the final stage. According to the studies, these should have been done the other way around, i.e. starting with the general aid. Now that society is gradually being opened up, inversely what has been closed, the economy must be carried hand in hand with it. What is the analysis of how these subsidies must be carried through to the end? We must take care of these companies, which have acted responsibly, and we must support them until the end here and, of course, also take care of the state finances. It is with some concern that we look at these decisions, which have come if the framework is exceeded.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u144	Congressman Honkasalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u145	Mr President! It is great indeed, as has often been repeated here, that the government has this children first principle in this exit strategy. We all know that the crisis in mental health services for children and young people existed before the corona. It has deepened and my message to the government is that this is something that cannot wait any longer. We are currently receiving news from Turku, Tampere, Helsinki, that young, suicidal young people are forced to stay on floor mattresses in the wards. This is not in anyone's interest. The problems are at the basic level there at the moment. It is not only a question of resources, it is a question of the fact that we may also have points in the legislation that call for improvements. It is also a question of management, it is a question of children and young people currently seeking special care who could be treated there at the basic level. This is something that is not just treated with short therapy or a therapeutic guarantee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u146	Congressman Eskelinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u147	Madam President! It is good that we are in this situation and that we are currently building an exit strategy. I am particularly pleased that the government has also involved the Finns in solving and building this strategy, and I think that is what it shows. The priorities are precisely what has been said here in the Chamber: young people, children, hobbies, including the opportunity for elderly people to participate in hobbies and the opening of events and sporting events. In the last few weeks, the assembly has spoken of the vaccine passport and it has been regarded as a special miracle tool. I don't believe in it. Both in the world and in Europe and in Finland, the epidemic is still on, and then, as the government has done, we are going to have to step up our efforts to get it out of the epidemic. Now it is important that we continue to move forward responsibly,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u148	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u149	Mr President! This corona pass is probably not a miracle tool, but it must be carried forward in an accelerated order. I understand that this good interest rate situation in Finland at the moment is thanks to good cooperation between the Government and Parliament. It is partly because Finland is an isolated country and we have few settlements, and then there is a feature of Finnish culture that is by no means present in all countries, that citizens believe the instructions and regulations of the authorities. That's why we have a good situation. After all, border security and border traffic management are essentially linked to the exit strategy, because the external threat is always there, and I would ask the Minister of Justice: now that months have passed on this corona passport, and I think that the fundamental rights problems associated with it have also been considered in the Ministry of Justice, could you open up to us parliamentarians what the great problems of fundamental rights are about as simple a matter as a corona passport?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u150	Congressman Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u151	Thank you, Madam President. A little deeper than Mr Vähämäki's excellent speech a moment ago: We all know that companies also lay the foundations for the welfare state after the interest rate. There are close to 300,000 companies in Finland, of which unfortunately many are facing a threat of bankruptcy or closure, about ten per cent are in a situation like this, according to the last survey of Finnish Entrepreneurs, which means that there is a bomb ticking in the background. These 30,000 entrepreneurs we can't afford to lose. The government must take urgent action now, because the situation is now acute and it will soon come to the eye. In other words, measures must be taken to give the entrepreneur a flexible opportunity to start again. Perhaps re-starting money and reform of debt and corporate restructuring legislation are the best means, but how were these ideas and proposals to increase the employer's side costs? It is certainly not recommended in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u152	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u153	Madam President! Exit plan is an important route towards normal life and summer. “Children and young people ”is an emphasis that Families have been tough. The return of schools to contact teaching helps, as does the opening of leisure activities. We need to support families and families and community in every way. Making summer events and camps possible will help, but bringing generations together must be an important goal. It strengthens family and family endurance and caring for others. Children should be allowed to meet their grandparents at family parties and anyway, for loneliness has been a major problem. Of course, vaccinations and their order will help. Progress by age group has been the right solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u154	Congressman Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u155	Madam President! As we all know, Finland is not a separate island; we are an integrated part of the international community through trade, cooperation and other international contacts. The role of the international community is to ensure that the world’s population can be vaccinated as effectively as possible and that the disease can also be printed down in developing countries. I would like to ask the government: how has Finland contributed or intends to contribute to a more active role for the EU and the United States in promoting vaccination diplomacy?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u156	Congressman Werner.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u157	Madam President! It is wonderful that we are in this situation and that the light at the end of a long tunnel is finally visible. I would like to thank the government for the measures that have been taken in the past, which have largely enabled us to find ourselves in this situation. The epidemiological situation has been challenging, but it is good to move on from this. Although the situation has improved, I hope that everyone will remember that the situation is not over. We must continue to act responsibly, to take care of distances, to take care of hygiene, because I do not believe that anyone wants us to tighten up measures when we look at the situation. On the contrary, I believe that everyone hopes that, when we look at the situation, we can only free up the situation and further dismantle the restrictions. Very good is the fact that these restrictions are being dismantled from the most important parts of our society — children, young people and the elderly — and that their daily lives are being made easier.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u158	Congressman Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u159	Madam President! I, too, would like to ask a few questions about the government's attitude towards entrepreneurship. Many entrepreneurs around Finland wonder why the government wants to prevent all activities in certain sectors regardless of the risk of infection. The government has scapegoated restaurants and sports facilities. The various committees, the central constitutional committee, have repeatedly pointed out that restrictions must be necessary and proportionate. In practice, therefore, the benefits of restrictive measures in the fight against infection must be proportional to the harm they cause. Dear government, why have you forgotten this in your exit strategy? Why don't you open outdoor sports activities, outdoor events and restaurant terraces on an accelerated schedule, because the risks of infection in the open air are much lower than indoors? Do you realise that this is about the livelihood and jobs of thousands of entrepreneurs and workers? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u160	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u161	Mr President! Counting infection rates are, of course, great. These readings are being monitored every day and we will continue to need our own responsibility from the citizens, from all of us. One key element is the restoration of economic viability at all levels. After all, these things have obviously been discussed in the spending limits debate in a great spirit of cooperation — so we have watched that we have been in the team spirit for many days. Mr President! Events and sport also play an economic role. For example, football’s Bet League and number one have now been played without an audience. The action has begun. However, this is of great economic importance for Finland and these sports clubs. I would like to ask: what kind of dialogue has now taken place with regard to sports clubs, so that we can take people to the stands and thereby make progress in this economic activity?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u162	Congressman Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u163	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the government's exit strategy is concerned, I'd like to ask you a question about coronas. Minister Kiuru's already gone, but... With regard to dogs: Customs has been training them for almost a year with a good percentage of hits, but this literature review, which has been carried out on them, does show that there is a real perception of what these dogs are doing. Dogs don't recognize the disease. It is said that ‘positive finding can lead to restrictions on the freedom of movement which may also have legal It's not like the dog's diagnosing. The dog is only an instrument to demonstrate that the test is carried out, and the test is diagnosed. There was also talk of an administrative silo which seems to be one of the obstacles to progress on this issue. My question to the government is: will you make use of it?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u164	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u165	Madam President! Mr Kankaanniemi asked if you could open that budget or budget. And if I remember correctly, some 1245 million have been allocated to development cooperation. Even in this time of the corona crisis, there have been Finnish companies that have tried to develop their activities, and huge innovations have been made in the environmental and recycling sectors. And when there are such places that have experienced severe crises in this past few years, then these innovations would have a great employment impact on these locations. Ministers, Prime Minister in particular, what means do you have, and can you spend this money a little more here in the country of origin?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, according to my accounts, everyone who wishes to speak here has received at least one speech. We will use the remainder of this time to make ministerial speeches, and then we will have some time to make some speeches. But at this point, first Minister Ohio and then Minister Henriksson, and then the whole debate will be concluded by the Prime Minister. — Minister Ohio, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Good conversation. It is wonderful, as has been mentioned here, that Finns were widely involved in this exit plan, but it has also become a very good food for this plan. Furthermore, the central role of the government is to protect the lives and health of all people living and living in Finland, and it is therefore quite clear that these border health security measures will continue to be very well managed. You have to hold on to it together. Minister Kiuru, of course, is responsible for this issue of health safety, and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is preparing legislation on this issue, the legislation on communicable diseases, above all, and that is what Minister Kiuru has already said for his part that a new proposal is still coming to Parliament, and this is very important. It was asked, among other things, by Mr Juuso earlier, that in the future, when internal border controls are removed, who will be asking for these different conditions of entry. Well, in practice only border guards can inquire about the conditions of entry, and they will, of course, continue to do this work, but cooperate. They have thus become subject to additional obligations and new responsibilities as part of this pandemic management. They can continue to do this work with the health authorities and the municipal infectious diseases authorities on requests for official assistance, i.e. they can then come and check the certificates and, above all, these negative test certificates if the Act on communicable diseases first provides for this. In other words, we need this legislation on health first and then the safety authorities can request these negative test certificates as a condition for entry, so that human health data cannot otherwise be checked by the safety authorities. Good questions were also asked about what is happening in India. The situation in India is very serious; we are constantly following it. It is clear that the European Union also has common border policies and this green list of the EU's green list of which third countries can enter the European Union, and, of course, as part of this policy in India, measures are already very, very tight and that can only come to Finland for well-founded reasons.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u168	Secretary Henrikson, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the representatives for a very good debate and good questions. On this vaccine certificate: Mr Eestilä asked about this fundamental rights dimension. Of course, I do not have an unambiguous answer either, but I can open it up a little. So, first of all, there is the medical dimension and then there is the fundamental legal dimension. The medical dimension has been that it can be certain that the person who has received the vaccine will not be infected. Once the answer has been received — and I think that information has now come to light through the media, too, that the medical examiners have said that this may be the case, that it will provide protection and that the person will not be taken forward — then the legal question will arise as to what rights this person can give. The main point here is that it does not become discriminatory. And then we must take into account the equal treatment of people and also take into account whether everyone has had the opportunity to take this vaccine and what we do with people who, for one reason or another, cannot receive or take the vaccine, children and so on. These are certainly all issues that can be resolved. But this is, in a way, the framework where we are, and that is why we need to think about this issue, and the last person to think about it would of course be the Constitutional Committee. But first of all, of course, the most important question is what it would be used for. And it may also be said that if it is a matter of public services, education, early education and so on, it is quite clear that there can be no such passport for people. Equality would not yield to it. But if you have a private-law opportunity or are a trader-organised event, it may be a different matter. But that’s why it’s not as easy to get and you have to think about what you need it for, where you would want it. And then it's up to the responsible ministries to figure out how and why it's needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u170	Like this. And now there are still representatives who have not taken the first floor, so I will give them the floor. And they are, starting here — Congressman Semi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u171	Thank you, Mr President. There has been a lot of talk here about leisure opportunities for young people and children and how they should be able to move more freely. But what has not been said much is how Finland receives money during this interest period and after the interest period, i.e. our workers in the export industry. They are currently spinning around the world, they have sold our products that they are building, and then they are ready to go to the servicemen to take care of them. I ran into a case where a maintenance worker in the Czech Republic said that he did not receive a corona vaccine for a reason that he was not old enough, but when he had an autoimmune disease, I thought it should have been like that, because he was risking his life at the workplace. I would like the government to take such special areas into account when planning further measures. ♪ That's how you get ♪
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u172	Congressman Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u173	Irade fru talman! Finland har i en internationalell Jämförelse klarat sig oerhört bra. Det är något vi under kan vara mycket över. Det har variantt valdigt tufft för de flesta finländarra, men i en internationalell jämförelse har vi klarat oss battre än många andra lännder i Europa och i världen. Exitplanen är viktig, den har en viktig psychologist betydelse för att få finländarna att orka kämppa nu den sista biten tills vaccinationerna av hela befolkningen är gjorda. Det är fint att regeringen har hört brett när man har färdigställt planen, hört kommunfältet, hört arbetsmarknadsparterna, hört culturen, hört unga, hört många när man har färdigställt det. Mycket har sagts auri som har variantt Jättebra, och det jag ännu skulle grain tillagga är att det är viktigt att komma ihåg att Finland ser olika ut på olika platser och olika regioner harka behov. Jag kommer från Åland och vi har särskilda behov än till exempel Helsingfors eller Tammerfors eller andra orter, och det är viktigt att tanka också på gränsregionernas speciella betydelse när man nu utformar [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u176	Congressman Mari Holopainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u177	Thank you, Mr President. It's great to see the government here answering some good questions after days of hard work. It is important that we respond as quickly as possible and on a research basis to the questions still raised by the corona crisis, and it is great that culture is supported. In this time of crisis, it has become very clear that perhaps we have a picture of this Finnish industrial structure that does not exactly correspond to what it really is. By the time primary production has already fallen to less than 3% of GDP, the share of service industries and also service exports has increased. The cultural sector employs up to 140 000 people and is also important for our economy and, of course, for the well-being of people. It is very good that the aid package has now been found in the cultural crisis, which I am sure will continue for some time, unfortunately. And as far as this research is concerned, it is good to take advantage of the fact that outside the virus is less contagious. It is therefore important that children’s hobbies can be opened as quickly as possible, especially outside.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u178	Congressman Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u179	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Exitstrategistin är mycket efferlängtad och den inger framtidstro. Det är valdigt viktigt att vi har det nu före återgången till en normal vardag inom många oika sectorer, och det är viktigt att det ar sker på ett trovärdigt sätt i befolkningens ögon. Strategin ger bättre öjligheter för barn och unga att utöva hobbler, och vi vet att vi har en stor drop out, alltså att barn har sluat med sina hobbyer på grund av corona. Det är är et stort bekymmer och det är dags att reagera på detta nu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u180	Mr President! I am also delighted that the activities of children and young people, as well as camp activities and other activities, will be opened. During the past year, many municipalities have had to cancel the Tett periods for young people, and this is, of course, the responsibility for working life. This may not be directly a matter for the government, but in such a way as a general social wish: hopefully there will also be summer jobs for young people now in the summer, although this situation is challenging. Another comment has been made here on the issues that have been raised here, that is to say the concerns of the cultural and event sectors and the suspected vaccine passport. Yes, I think it would be an important tool among others, that we could get these forward. But then to the real question. So it was heard here today that this law on the pre-test certificate is being prepared, and I would like to ask as a more specific question: can it be implemented before the borders are opened more widely? Or, in fact, the other way around, I said: will the borders be opened according to these plans if this is not possible in time? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u181	And the response, Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u182	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say, following Mr Lundén and a few other speeches, that this House has not gone out to be applied by people, that there is no proposal by the authorities which has not assessed proportionality and necessity, and that the proposals that go through here are proportionate and necessary from the point of view of fundamental rights. [of the Socialist Group: Unanimously!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u183	And the last speech of this debate. — Prime Minister, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u184	Mr President! Thank you for a very good debate and for the very important comments and speeches that have been made here across the government-opposition boundaries. Ministers have answered many of these questions, but in this last speech I would like to raise in particular this question of preparedness for the future, not only the acute treatment of this crisis and the after-care that will follow, but also, of course, this question of preparedness for future crises. There have been many speeches here about the development of a management system, the development of legislation, the way in which we would be better prepared for crises such as this or similar in the future. There has been talk here about the need to reform the Emergency Act, the need to reform the Act on Disease Control, and I also see that this is an issue in which the whole of Parliament and all parties must be involved as soon as possible. This pandemic isn't over yet. We see that in many European countries the situation has worsened. Fortunately, in Finland we are moving towards the light and the summer and here the situation is getting better, but in many countries the situation is still very serious and has become even more serious recently. The pandemic is not over, this crisis is not over, and that is why we must together look at the reform needs of Finnish legislation. I see, and I can tell from these experiences, that we need a pandemic law. We would need a completely different kind of legislation than the Act on Disease Control or even the Act on Preparedness has given us keys. We would need legislation such as this, which would have all the tools that could be put in place, with a parliamentary lock that would not, however, be too easily used. This whole management system should be reformed. It should be reformed in such a way that effective measures, timely measures, proactive measures and sufficiently strong measures could be introduced in the event of an infectious disease of this kind or even more dangerous for us. And this kind of legislation should:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u185	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 3/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — The general debate begins, Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u186	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal to amend the Act on the Social Insurance Institution is of a technical nature. This makes certain clarifications to the law and adds a few tasks to the legislation to the Social Insurance Institution. For example, it is proposed to include in the Act on the Social Insurance Institution provisions on the service of decisions in the form of ordinary electronic service, provided that the customer has given express consent to this. At present, the decisions of the Social Insurance Institution are sent by post as a regular service, which, for example, in 2019 meant more than 15000 letters, and the committee considered that the possibility to receive the decision by electronic service is justified in order to improve customer service. With this legislation on the Social Insurance Institution open, I cannot fail to raise the awareness of the West Media that the working groups set up by Prime Minister Sanna Marin's Government are planning to remove the substitution of Kela from prescription medicines prescribed by doctors on the private side. It would no longer be purely technical, as would the present proposal, but would be a fundamental change, one might say. This decision would also apply to excellent occupational health care and would in practice mean that prescription medicines should be applied separately to a public doctor. In occupational health care, the assessments made by doctors would no longer be enough, but the health centre doctor would have to re-take the same actions and assessments. The amendment on the removal of the Kela reimbursement of prescriptions for private doctors, as revealed by the West Media, is already in preparation for officials, and it seems that, at least publicly, representatives of the government parties were also surprised. So did the West Media reveal something that had to be prepared in secret and made public only after the war package had passed, or was it really a matter of keeping the centre particularly ignorant of this preparation and sidelined? In fact, preparations are under way in the working group of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, chaired by Minister of Health Krista Kiuru, and in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, there are no fewer than four different working groups whose mandate, however, comes from the Marin Government Programme, with the aim of clarifying the abandonment of multi-channel funding for social welfare and health care. It has been reported in public that the preparation of the Marin Board’s working group would also include ‘substantial proposals for the closure of private care and research funding for Kela, the transfer of rehabilitation activities to planned welfare areas, the abolition of reimbursement for medicines prescribed by The former Minister of Social Affairs and Health Thus, the services which are not insurmountablyarranged in the public sector. “ On 17 April,the RisikkorequiredFacebook:‘Is the Government describing that Moreover, the resources of the war will continue to decline. Does the government imagine that these specialists will be transferred to the public sector?” The Evening Sanomat also reported on 18.4. Markus Salmon, who is also chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, stated that he was not aware of the STM proposal. The salmon interviewed by the magazine listed the problems that we have already raised, stating, among other things, that ‘public health care can be broken and the proposal is not equal’. We received comments from our representative, Mia Laiho, from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Mr Laiho considered the preparation of the working group to be scandalous and stated that ‘it would be very unfair to make a commitment to the substitution of medicines with Kela, whether the service provider is publicised or not’. Mr Laiho also rightly criticised the fact that such preparations have been carried out in a way that is hidden from the public. It seems that the Marin government is working as a civil servant to prepare a model for the abandonment of multi-channel funding for social welfare and health services. Today, social welfare is funded not only through the state and municipalities but also through employers and employees but also through entrepreneurs, households, beneficiaries and Kela's health insurance. In other words, the change in practice would largely destroy the most functional part of basic health care, namely occupational health care, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, would simply increase the number of customers and, on the other hand, queues to public health centres. The Western media reports on this issue that major reforms are being prepared for social welfare funding. Such a reform would contribute to the destruction of our welfare society. I therefore believe that the funding of the social security reform should now be provided with a thorough and publicly accessible study before it is possible to take the reform forward in Parliament. Thus, the private sector allergy of Prime Minister Sanna Marin's left-wing government seems to be becoming increasingly worrying. In my opinion, the treatment of the war in Parliament should be suspended and these changes, which I have presented to you in this regard as regards Kela, are so fundamental that they should be made public. It is no longer just technical changes, as is the case with this proposal today, but much bigger changes to the Act on the Social Insurance Institution.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u187	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u188	Madam President! There is a report from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the amendment of the Act on the Social Insurance Institution. These are technical changes, including the provision on the General Fund for Social Security, which entered into force at the beginning of 2021 by the Social Insurance Institution for the purpose of organising student health care, to cover the payment of reimbursements to the Student Health Foundation under Article 22 of the Law on the Health of University Students for the cost of providing student health care services. In addition, this law allows the decisions of the Social Insurance Institution to be sent by electronic means by means of service, provided that the customer has given his express consent. Currently, the decisions of the Social Insurance Institution are sent by post as regular service, and in 2019 more than 15 million letters were sent. It is a good thing that this electronic side is made possible and put in place, but at the same time it is very important, as the committee also stressed, that the clarity and understanding of the decision and decisions is maintained. It's very important. In other words, it is not meant that it is not possible for people to have decisions on paper as well. Care will be taken to ensure that the papers continue to be kept and the letter mail passes and important matters will be served. Mr President! I would like to highlight this change in student health care at the Student Health Foundation. At the beginning of the year, students of polytechnics moved to the FSHS services. Each student received a certain amount on his own, amounting to about EUR 35.80, which then allowed access to these health care services. However, it has been very worrying that in February it was found that there were around 40000 invoices for enforcement, i.e. totally unpaid. Kela has reminded us that the unpaid invoice can indeed go into enforcement and it is possible to collect it either from student Kela's student's study grant or from Kela's benefit, and this is worrying. It was the case that the student was not informed about this invoice except by paying it, and then the students may not have been aware of it, or they may have missed paying it otherwise, and it is understandable that at the time of the interest rate, especially when distance students were also in higher education, this could have remained. On 16 March this year it was found that 18,000 were still outstanding. This reform has been driven by the fact that equal services are guaranteed to all university students, and it is now important that the services are also made work and that people know that they have paid their own bills and then also that it is quite unreasonable for these student bills to go into enforcement. It has also been the case that there has been a lot of congestion in accessing telephone services and services, so it is important that, once those bottlenecks are dismantled, they then receive assistance from the CSDS services. Mr President! This is where Mr Heinonen raised the issue of cuts in Kela compensations, and this was quite cold news for us Finns. Of course, we know that there has been talk of cuts in Kela compensation for a very long time, so it is nothing new. However, it is worrying if Kela reimbursements are cut right from that area of special care, such as urology, gynaecology, eye diseases. They will then retaliate in later stages if people do not get to a specialist. Unavoidably, a general practitioner, as good as he is in Finland, is not the right place to go, for example, with certain problems. During the time of Korona, a great many people have had to wait for treatment. It has been said that in a few years’ time, in a few years’ time, the effects that the corona has had, for example, on long - term illnesses and cancers and the deaths that people may then encounter because of a lack of treatment, for example. Hopefully, people will soon be able to get to the treatments that have been slowed down by this corona crisis and we will be able to pay off the medical debt. It's very important. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u189	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 7/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — The general debate begins, Mr Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u190	Madam President! According to this proposal, provisions on the acceptance of a foreign vessel chartered to Finland without crew in a foreign vessel register would be added to the Maritime Act for a limited period of time and the registration of the vessel in the Transport Register or the ship register maintained by the Government of Åland. The vessel would then have been entered in the register of vessels of another State and in the Finnish register of use. The vessel would use the Finnish flag for the time it has been accepted as Finnish. The Finnish Transport and Communications Agency would decide to accept the vessel as Finnish. Acceptance would be conditional, inter alia, on the ship being led and operated from Finland and the ship owner and the mortgage and pledge holders having given their written consent to the ship’s registration in Finland. The charterer should be a Finnish citizen or a Finnish legal person with its registered office, central administration or head office in the European Economic Area. Acceptance of the vessel as a Finnish vessel would also require written permission from the registry authority of the State in which the vessel is registered for the registration of the vessel in Finland. Due to changes to the Law on the Sea, the Ship Register Act also needs to be amended. In its report, the committee considers the proposal necessary and appropriate. The committee proposes that the legislative proposals contained in the government proposal be adopted unchanged. Madam President! The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u191	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 5/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — The general discussion begins, Mr Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u192	Madam President! We have a government proposal to amend the Local Government Act and the Financial Transfer Tax Act. Most of the changes are related to the provisions on the finances and administration of the municipality and cooperation between municipalities. I would like to raise a few points in relation to the opportunities for the participation and influence of residents, which I also raised in connection with the discussion of the Administrative Committee. First of all, the municipal initiative. It is now proposed to delete the paragraph which sets a six-month deadline for processing if the initiative has been signed by more than 2% of the residents of the municipality. In future, all initiatives should therefore be dealt with without undue delay in accordance with the Administrative Law. In the government's proposal it has been estimated that it is not appropriate for democracy to be achieved simply to place greater emphasis on the amount of support for initiatives. It is also estimated that the harmonisation of initiatives can be assessed to improve participation rights. I understand the objective of promoting equal treatment of initiatives, regardless of the number of initiatives involved and the fact that this proposal aims to speed up the process of all initiatives. Nevertheless, I do not think that there is any conflict with the importance attached to the issue of how many initiatives have been signed. It will take a lot of work to collect names, and it would also, in my opinion, be in the spirit of democracy if we took account of them. I think that, in line with the citizens' initiatives that have crossed the limit of 50,000 names, it would be justified for municipal initiatives that have signed a certain number of signatories to be submitted to the council. This is because the deliberations of the Board of Governors are public in comparison to those of a panel or office-holder, for example, and this would give the matter the attention it deserves. Of course, I understand and consider it relevant to the law that the initiatives are dealt with by the competent authority in the municipality, but ultimately, when the budgetary authority is in the council, the initiatives relating to the use of additional money can be regarded as falling within the remit of the council. I think it is important for municipalities in general to reflect on this way of dealing with municipal initiatives and also communicate it in plain language to residents. In this context, we noted in the report of the Administrative Committee that the municipality can provide more detailed provisions in its administrative rules on the handling of initiatives. In my home town of Espoo, for example, one municipal initiative has been received during the 12 years of my council, which collected names of more than 2 per cent of the residents of the municipality — it was almost 6,000 signatures. This initiative concerned the rescue of the town-owned Träskända Manor for municipal use. The initiative was dealt with by the council and received praiseworthy attention, as well as the extensive work done by the residents on behalf of this manor. Madam President! Secondly, I am raising the role of youth councils. The expert opinions requested that the presence rights of the representative of the youth council be recorded in the law in the councils, municipal boards and boards. Many municipalities are already doing this, and that is a very good and worthwhile thing, and I firmly believe that these decisions will be taken to an increasing extent in the future as the municipalities take a good example from each other. The committee recorded in its own statement that this is to be welcomed and desirable. The existing municipal law was adopted in 2015 and has since been supplemented several times. I would have liked this round to have given more attention to empowering the population. However, the municipal law is possible in this area, so municipalities can and should improve the opportunities for residents to participate and influence and learn from the good practices of others. I see that the municipal initiative is one of the tools for raising and promoting issues of importance to residents. To this example of Espoo. I would like to say that, of course, the fact that the Council is dealing with does not mean that the Council will decide one by one in accordance with the initiative. However, the fact that there is a wide-ranging discussion between the council makes it possible to bring forward different perspectives and then also creates positive pressure to push the matter forward if it is considered to be generally worthwhile.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u193	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u194	Mr President! This bill proposes a number of substantive and clarifying changes to municipal governance: the right of initiative would be extended and the provision on the time-limit for the examination of initiatives removed, the regulation on the contract of directors would be amended as regards the approval of the contract of directors, the regulation on the statute of directors would be supplemented and the conditions for the e-conferencing would be further regulated by law. In my opinion, the Committee on Administrative Affairs has given some merit and quite extensive consideration in its report to the activities of the municipality, even from a broader point of view. I will now take a position as the municipal decision-maker on a few issues. It is good that, in addition to deciding on the criteria for asset management and investment activities, the Board of Governors' tasks in the future include deciding on the criteria for financing operations. The change is likely to improve the management of the financial risks of the municipality, as the Board of Governors will have to take a clear position on what kind of funding the municipality uses, what financial and derivative instruments can be used and what types of risks are acceptable. Municipal wealth management and financial and investment activities should be based on the municipal strategy and serve its objectives. Of course, practical competence in asset management and in financial and investment activities, such as decisions on individual financial instruments, is justified by the municipality’s transfer to the municipal government or the office manager responsible for financial activities. This delegation of powers shall be decided by the Board of Governors by administrative rules. The Committee on Administration has also given due consideration to the involvement of residents, as Mrs Elok pointed out in the previous speech, and also to the role of the Youth Council and the participation of young people. The Committee's expert consultation has proposed to increase and extend the role of the Youth Council. There was no change in this draft law, but the committee would point out that the provision on the Youth Council in municipal councils emphasises that consultation and participation of children and young people must not be limited to youth, education, sport and cultural activities. The Board of Governors shall take care of the diverse and effective possibilities for participation and the municipality shall provide for the right of non-members to attend and speak at the meetings of the institutions in the administrative code. The legislation of the municipal law is therefore possible. It is also important to raise this issue in this context, since the presence and the right to speak to the representative of the Youth Council, at least at the meetings of the Council and the Boards, will improve the flow of information and the opportunities for young people to be involved. In most municipalities, at least participation in committee meetings is already possible for the representative of the youth council. Involvement and support for young people in various ways is a good way to get adults active in society in the future. In order to increase participation, the same debate should also be held with regard to the Councils for the elderly and the disabled. The vote of these statutory councils should be better heard in municipal decision-making. Practices in this area also vary widely between municipalities and, overall, the initiative and inclusion of residents should be increased and supported. Finally, a few words on clarifying the conditions for electronic meetings. The Korona era has taught us and given us new ways and opportunities to carry out meetings. I believe that many municipalities and other communities are already in need of attendance meetings, but hybrid meetings, for example, have been so effective that making them possible in the future will be a positive thing. In order to avoid any ambiguity or problems, it is good that the conditions for electronic meetings are now more detailed. It is very likely that there will continue to be a need for electronic meetings. Even if we do not have an epidemic, I think that their use will increase. When you know how to use them well and in the right way, it is very good. As the committee's report also states, the diversity and multi-channel nature of voting procedures and the authorisation of the hybrid model must be clearly enshrined in the law so that there is no possibility of procedural misinterpretation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u195	Congressman Huttunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-04-28-ps-48.u196	Thank you, Mr President. As Mr Elo has said here, the current municipal law dates from 2015. It has been fully applied since the beginning of the Council term in 2017. Since then, the law has been amended several times. I am not going to repeat everything that has already been said here by the representatives, which is to say that I agree with all of this with you. But I would also like to draw attention to this electronic meeting process. We in the committee also felt it necessary to emphasise that changes to the municipal law are also proposed to regulate the electronic meeting. The need is obvious. All of us, or most of us, here in Parliament are also delegates, and we have probably sat at the Teams meetings in full as at the hybrid meetings, and we have noticed that there are many different practices in different municipalities. And this year has already shown that there is absolutely a need for regulation here and that there is a need for clarification, and that is something that our committee also paid particular attention to. And it is important that permanent changes to the municipal law should also be made in order to make this clearer. We have already read in the newspapers that it has appeared that meetings have been held in some municipalities, which have since been found to be contrary to the municipal law. There have been clean damage, so that in principle we have been followed up on what has been laid down in Parliament, but then our own rule of government has not sat down in this mold. And precisely for such reasons definitely this should be specified and made permanent changes to the municipal law. It may be that for the next generation of councils, which will now be elected in June, this is already perfectly normal practice. Those of us who have been sitting there for several years have had to learn this. But all in all, we thought the government proposal was good. Small changes and minor incisions were made, mainly at the time of entry into force. I would therefore like to thank the government for a good proposal.
