ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. On 26 March 2021, the Council of Presidents proposed that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Education, Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Economic Affairs must deliver an opinion. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 26 March 2021. In the debate, Ben Zyskowicz, supported by Pia Kauma, has proposed, contrary to the proposal of the Council of Presidents, that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Administration, the Committee on Education and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy must give an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Representative Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u3	Mr President! The restaurant industry has perhaps taken the hardest hits in the past year, and it is likely that after the pandemic, the restaurant culture may never return to normal. The restrictions do not take sufficient account of the different profiles of restaurants, so even those with no infection have been put in the position of the sufferer. Restaurants have mainly acted responsibly, so prolonged restrictive measures are becoming very excessive in the sector. Nutritional conditions should have been handed out earlier, for example, in the form of a reduction in VAT, but, as the objection made by the Finnish People and the Coalition Party in the Committee on Economic Affairs indicates, it should be given now at the latest. Similarly, restaurants with the right to drink should be given the right to sell out wines. It is also essential to prepare for the post-restaurant period for provisions that allow for a profitable opening-up of nutrition stores, taking into account the risk profiles of different restaurants. Unfortunately, this does not seem to be what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u4	Congressman Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u5	President! I hope the government does not forget that in Finland, about 93 per cent of enterprises are enterprises with fewer than 10 persons. During the whole 2000s, new jobs in Finland have just been created in small and medium-sized enterprises. Last year in this Chamber: ‘All government activities amount to around EUR 15 billion. And this means that we really are serious about the fact that no company is going bankrupt because of this crisis and no one is going into mass unemployment.” It is important that as far as possible targeted, regional and time-limited measures should be used instead of extensive restrictions, just as the report states, but restaurants would have long needed a clear plan for the future, just as many other countries have. The present uncertainty and communication is completely unsustainable. The sector needs to be understood by decision-makers as to how it works, and actions according to it. It's only the actions that decide. Warm speeches no longer carry. Support must be obtained much faster than at present, i.e. quickly, when the costs do not end than when the restaurants are closed to the wall. One alternative to the crisis in restaurants would be to refund VAT paid for a certain period of time. This would then be based on factual turnover. The IRS would get the information very quickly. This would certainly be a relief for many in the midst of a painful situation and give hope for reopening. When you listen to the field, the whole industry feels like only one spit cup at the moment. And, President, to the very end of the quote from Yle’s news today: ‘In Japan, the self-destruction of young women has increased during the year. In Finland, too, the need for help has increased.” When making decisions, the government should also keep clear the disadvantages of the closures and the human and economic pain they cause.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u6	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u7	Madam President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs had already, in its opinion of spring 2020, called for the restriction of the opening hours of the catering business to be differentiated regionally according to the state of the epidemic and for the restrictions to be linked to exceptional circumstances in time. How has this been achieved? For example, how many infections have occurred at lunch restaurants or traditional cafes? On a proposal from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, Parliament has already adopted a statement in the context of the legislation on the closure of catering establishments that, after a three-week closure period in future legislation, the Government is invited to consider the possibility of limiting the regional scope to a more subtle extent than the regional level. The Constitutional Committee had already called for similar practice in the spring of 2020, as I have already mentioned. Mr President! In the context of previous legislation on restrictions, the Constitutional Committee has called for restrictive measures to be laid down for various types of food-processing establishments, in particular by making these restrictions necessary to prevent the spread of communicable diseases of general concern in particular, and by means of a regulatory mandate within the framework of the basic provisions. Mr President! Parliament should hear what the Constitutional Committee has called for. In the early days of the interest crisis, we heard more than once at the mouth of our politicians that we are going to get through this — together. This is a good slogan, of course, but how do we do this? One example is this objection, which contains the statements of the True Finns and the National Coalition. The Christian Democrats can at least support this first statement: ‘The Commission requires that provisions be drawn up for the post-restaurant period which allow for the re-emergence of nutritional movements and the different types ofnutrition movements and their risk profiles to be taken into
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u8	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u9	Madam President! In order to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 epidemic, there have been various restrictions on the activities of restaurants in practice for a year, and now we have an acceptable proposal here that will continue until 18 April. There is also a proposal within the Parliament to significantly restrict the activities of restaurants even after this closure. Mr President! The restaurant sector employs 77,000 people in Finland, including entrepreneurs. 30% of employees are under 26 years of age. Over the past year, the restaurant sector has had a significant number of layoffs and layoffs affecting low-paid workers and young people. When the same workers are constantly affected by restrictive measures and lay-offs, there is a great need for the sector and for the financial livelihood of the workers. The sector's turnover decreased by EUR 1.5 billion last year, resulting in a financial crisis for companies in this sector. The situation is particularly bad in the capital region, and last summer there was not enough improvement. Up to 30 per cent of restaurant companies have estimated that they are at risk of bankruptcy or have ceased operations by September, and since this spring this figure will be significantly higher. Restaurant companies, entrepreneurs and employees need a plan on how to proceed from now on. They have the right and reasonable to know in good time what is being done and also to receive adequate compensation — for entrepreneurs and also for workers. It would also make sense to reduce the number of days of benefit from the start of unemployment benefit. There have been significant restrictions on the restaurant sector, and it is important that the government now prepares a credible exit strategy on restrictions and that business will also be profitable in the future and that the restaurant industry will be able to continue to try. It is possible to do this in a health-safe way if you want to do so. If you just categorically keep everything locked up, no matter what the industry, Finland will not rise from here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u10	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u11	Madam President! Restaurants have been restricted for one year. The activity has been completely stagnant, and many of the restaurants and restaurant workers have been in contact with the situation they have. A restaurant owner told me that March is some sort of milestone. We will then see once and for all how many bankruptcies there will be, how many restaurants will be sold and how many will have to stop working. In September, there will be a final death blow, when we will see the catastrophic situation of restaurants caused by this corona. It is very important that the restaurants are supported and receive the compensation necessary for the interruption of their activities in order to get over this high interest rate. It does seem unreasonable. It would be very important for us to have clear figures on how many actual exposures there are in food restaurants. We do not have these figures, but it is very important that we have clear, factual figures so that we can make decisions. Unaccustomed and vague communication has often emerged alongside these corona restrictions, and not only citizens, but also businesses, entrepreneurs, operators, workers, really know what restrictions there are and how to act. The Finns have repeatedly highlighted the importance and importance of communication here so that people know where we are going and what we are facing. I encourage and continue to hope that the government will improve the flow of communication and will say things in such a way that they are understandable. Madam President! The Finns of Peru are involved in an objection in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, which contains statements. These statements are very good, I am sure they will be presented here later, and we will support them. We attach great importance to the temporary reduction in VAT, among other things, from 24% to 14% in relation to drinking, and also to allowing the sale of wines temporarily to restaurants with the right to drink. And of course we hope and encourage that when the restaurants open, we Finns will do everything in our power to ensure that the restaurants survive in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u12	Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u13	Madam President! The law now before us authorises the Government to continue the barrage for another three weeks. As the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy stresses in its report, and as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has often pointed out, these restrictions must be able to be limited regionally to areas smaller than the provinces, depending on the situation of infection. THL has previously justified restrictions at regional level by the fact that they could not be made on a municipal basis, as customers would simply transfer to restaurants in the neighbouring municipality. Apparently, representatives of THL have never been to Lapland, let alone understand how large and sparsely populated the area is. How many people actually believe that a Toroaner will go to Rovaniemi to a restaurant if they are caught in their hometown — a drive from Tornio to Rovaniemi is 125 kilometres away, and it will take an estimated 1 hour 46 minutes — let alone to Kemijärvi, which is 210 kilometres away, or to the Utsjoki, which is 575 km away? Mr President! The business of restaurant entrepreneurs has been heavily vaccinated because of the interest rate, although we have still not received statistics on how much of the infections originated in restaurants. By closing all the restaurants in Lapland for another three weeks, we will drive to the brink of the sector, from which many will no longer have a return. Easter is next weekend and the cottages of ski resorts in Lapland are full. When ski resorts are allowed to be open, restaurants there would be able to provide services at least with terraces at sufficient safety distances, even if the interiors were closed. This too should be taken into account in the restrictions. The outdoor shops are outdoors, and the sale to the terrace can even be carried out when served. The tables and benches can be grouped into small groups, allowing the safety intervals to be several meters between the groups. In any case, if outdoor terraces are not served, people will gather for empty terraces to eat lunch and rest, but without access to hygiene services and without anyone watching the intervals. This would be a higher risk for the spread of the virus. The situation in the medical districts of Lapland and Western Ostrobothnia is peaceful. At week 11, there were 28 corona infections in the Hospital District of Lapland and 27 in Western Ostrobothnia, 7 in Week 12 in the Hospital District of Lapland and 3 in Western Ostrobothnia. I hope that the Government will give careful consideration to which regions and municipalities need to continue to block restaurants. According to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the measures and restrictions must be proportionate, necessary and precise. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u14	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u15	Madam President! Happy palm Sundays for all of us, especially the President — and for all of us! Indeed, many young people today go behind many doors to wish for freshness and health. It's a big deal for this spring. I will not go any further to the closing sentences of the refreshment, who will receive gifts and who will have the rod — that is something we will probably all decide later on, perhaps even in these votes,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u18	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u19	Madam President! I have been in Parliament for 26 years and, if I remember correctly, this is the first Sunday we have sat in this Chamber. At least I don't remember anything like this ever happened before. Sometimes there have been committee meetings in other days. But I, too, wish you a good palm Sunday. I myself tend to keep Sundays on days of rest and off work, but the necessary work must be done, and, in this situation, in the legislation on restaurant restrictions I understand, there would have been a one-day break if we had not gathered on this holiday. And when, together, we have found that there are strong health criteria for controlling the corona epidemic, including the persistence of these restrictions on restaurants, then this is a necessary reason for us to work here in Parliament today. In other words, this proposal is, in principle, necessary to curb the pandemic, and I think it is appropriate that these restaurant closures continue. But since last spring there has been a debate about the need to be able to distinguish between different restaurants more precisely when restricting restaurants. Yes, these infections and risks are clearly related to certain types of restaurants, where there is a lot of such things as drinking drunks, drinking alcohol, dancing, singing, loud music, nightclub activities, and then we have the food restaurant activity that is certainly not a comparable problem in terms of the progression of infections. And now that this has been called for many times in Parliament, I wonder that the government has not produced this finer proposal. The committee is now very much in favour of taking a position on this, and I also support the first proposal made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the People's Party, which requires that we now finally create provisions that allow for the re-opening of the catering business in a profitable way and that take account of the different types of food service movements and their risk profiles. I hope that the government will take this very seriously now, that this will also be done. Even if this pony is not accepted, it is very important. But then I wonder about these beloved opposition groups, the Finns and the Coalition Party, with whom we have worked a lot, when in these other two efforts, in the context in which we seek to promote the health of Finns in this whole performance, we would like to distribute alcohol to Finnish homes as cheaply as possible and as easily as possible. I think we should also take seriously the messages that we have domestic violence, that there are more and more problems caused by alcohol consumption in Finnish homes. I'm sure this is the idea now, then, of that civilized-drinking wine, but it's not a reality for all Finns, and that's why I'm not supporting and understanding these two forces. In this context, I would now like to remind you that this motion for a restriction on movement also includes a right or an exception to trade there in the liquor trade, it is to be safeguarded, just as the opposition would like to count VAT on alcohol and to allow the sale of alcohol for direct illness and accidents, according to our last statistics, to have 1,700 people killed per year. In addition, hundreds of thousands of problem drinkers have these health and social disadvantages. We have 70,000 children who suffer from alcohol abuse by their parents. It is necessary to prevent the death of interest by forceful means, but these proposals are very contradictory in their reasoning if, in health-oriented proposals, alcohol is then treated as essential for life and not as a risk factor for public health. And I would remind you that even with this presentation, when we aim not to exceed that intensive care capacity and not to overload hospitals, alcohol also loads hospitals. Even before the corona period, it was known that a quarter of all intensive care places go to treatment for alcohol-related diseases: there are pancreatitiss, there are head injuries, there are other alcohol-induced diseases — that is, a quarter of a fourth place for intensive care — and there is no doubt at present a significant proportion of intensive care places for these diseases. I therefore call for consistency, and I would also stress that I am not proposing a prohibition law or even the closure of the Elements in the case of a possible restriction on movement, because that would lead to a Finnish rebellion. We would then suffer from social peace, but I would like us to be honest and consistent in these arguments and also to remember the public health problem caused by alcohol, alcohol diseases and alcohol accidents, now that we are ahead of health all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u20	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u21	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! The historic Sunday sitting — in 94 the last Parliament meeting was held on Sunday. It must therefore be of exceptional importance that we are gathered together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u24	Congressman Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u25	Mr President, värderade talman! As we all know, the disease situation is still so bad and so serious that, unfortunately, the proposal to continue to lock down restaurants is necessary. Thus, preventing people’s association, for example in cramped bars and nightclubs, is necessary to curb the spread of the epidemic. It is also not possible to open food restaurants today, but it is essential that the companies within the closure receive adequate financial compensation during the period of arrest.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u26	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to my esteemed opposition colleague, Mr Räsänen, that when you criticised the motion for a statement by the Finns and the Coalition Party on the sale of wines and asked why we should make it as cheap and easy as possible to buy wines, that is not the point. The question is that now that restaurants have the opportunity to take away food, it would certainly be all right to support restaurants in this way too, so that they can also buy their wine in the same way. They've got a lot of warehouses. And it has to be said that these restaurants' wines are not so-called squats, which are applied for from the lower shelf, and which are inexpensive, but, in fact, that price is quite high in these. In this respect, it is hardly the case that large consumers buy them from restaurants. In this respect, this concern is gone. But I would then like to point out to this debate that we are now once again categorically closing restaurants without any precision, without looking at the risk profile of these restaurants, which has already been mentioned here, among other things, at the mouth of Mrs Juvosen. So we should see which restaurants are them. It is quite clear that if you drink a lot, dance, get close together, talk loudly, sing, it is quite different from food restaurants, where you usually sit at your own party at a table and eat there. And in this regard, I would also like to point out to this debate that a lot of things can be done in restaurants. A lot of things have been done there. There's still more to be done there. In many European countries, for example, there are squares, how many tables there can be and how many people there are, and this is something I have not noticed. We have already added hygiene measures, disinfectants and masks to these restaurants. I do not know whether the government has missed it, but the Government's programme states that the government wants to make decisions based on the information that has been studied. The University of Helsinki, HUS, the Finnish Meteorological Institute and the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health conducted a study with Restaurant Henri Alén on how the virus spreads in restaurants, and in the end of this study it became clear that air purifiers, air conditioning at full speed and, of course, a push through will dilute the amount of the virus indoors. Therefore, this too would be one thing that should be taken seriously in the debate now, [President : 3 minutes!] because we cannot continue to do so on an ongoing basis by simply closing down restaurants or reducing their opening hours considerably in the future, but we must now find those safe ways for restaurants that can be safely open. — Mr President, I shall continue a little bit from the toilet. [ The speaker moves to the podium]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u27	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u28	Madam President! Korona is, of course, a serious matter, but it is unfortunate what kind of situation entrepreneurs have now faced. They're in real trouble, the manager of the little cafe, the barkeeper, and many, many others. The Finns have made many presentations to facilitate the position of entrepreneurs, and help is now also needed for people in accommodation and catering establishments. They really need help right now. But the government has not supported all these good requests for help for entrepreneurs, presentations that we, including the True Finns, have made. This is quite amazing if you think that there is now, however, this interest-bearing money in the EU, so to speak, coming to a recovery and that money is now being put abroad billions of dollars and, in a way, it can be used to support foreign companies. Yes, we must think more about this country this time. On the other hand, I am concerned about this regional demarcation. In the area where I come from, in North Savo, entrepreneurs are really in need. There's an emergency in the area. There's a need to make a living. The confusion and uncertainty is the question mark, the question mark and the question mark, how do we proceed from now on? Information's been pretty weak. No one seems to know how and when and who will inform. There are actually quite a lot of unclear things. How is this demarcation now handled in the provinces, municipalities or perhaps municipalities? Good presentations have come from the assembly in which the Finns of Finland participate, in these statements, and this temporary reduction in value added tax has been highlighted — it is very sensible in such a situation. Or the temporary sale of wines, really sensible, and also the idea of finding a worthwhile way to continue the restaurant business when the time comes. Yes, a domestic entrepreneur must now be supported. Otherwise, we won't get out of this swamp.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u29	Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u30	Mr President! All of us Members of Parliament probably get emails and other messages about every day, wondering why such drastic restrictions exist when there are only a few hundred people who have died in Finland. I have replied to all of them that restrictions are being made so that thousands of people would not die. Throughout this period of pandemic, Finland has done almost the best in Europe to keep both infections and corona deaths down. If corona deaths relative to the population in Finland were of the same order as in Sweden, we would have about 6500 more deaths from corona than now, [Base Finns Group : What about entrepreneurs?] Well, we parliamentarians are asked, in this Chamber too, what is the proportion of restaurants? It's not exactly known. Depending on the area and the time, about half or just over half of the sources of infection have been identified, but some of them are their own homes, and when only the sources of infection outside the home from which they come home are being taken, more than half of the sources of infection are still unresolved. We know that the corona virus is transmitted by human contact and must therefore be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u31	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u32	Mr President! First of all, I would like to make the motions for statements in response to the objection, i.e. the motions for statements by the Assembly: Declaration 1: ‘The Commission requires that provisions be drawn up for the post-restaurant closure period to allow the re-emergence of nutritional movements and to Declaration 2: ‘The Commission requires a temporary reduction from 24 % to 14 % in value And a statement. 3: ‘The Commission requires that wine sales be authorised on a temporary “ Mr President! We have certainly all received messages from desperate restaurant entrepreneurs recently about what this blockade will do to them, but also about what the government's plans for opening the lock in the future have been. We have had a proposal for a restaurant law on the post-cloud period here in committee earlier, and it has suggested that restaurants should close their doors at 6 p.m. and stop giving up at 5 p.m. Restaurant entrepreneurs have, of course, received very unambiguous feedback that when we return to or even close to the normal situation after 18 April, this condition does not allow them to operate in a profitable manner. That is why we made this motion for a statement on the part of the Assembly in that committee, so that the post-cloud measures need to be considered very carefully so that it really is possible for companies to do so profitably. And the suggestion they have made is that they could also be open in the early evening, so that the restaurants would close their doors only three hours later than in this government proposal that we have had before us. This way, for example, food restaurants would be able to deliver the first set during the evening. It is not profitable for most companies to be a lunch restaurant alone, and it is often not profitable for those companies that have introduced this take-away business either, because when sending companies are used, the Commission, which is sometimes paid for it, does not allow profitable activities for most restaurants. In addition, restaurants have hoped that food restaurants with reservations could be open a little longer than at 21 o’clock, so that they would be open until 23 o’clock. Mr President! It is very important that we now consider measures for the post-lock period so that restaurants can finally start their operations profitably and sensibly. This requires the government to reflect more carefully on these regional areas of application after the closure, just as a number of representatives have already said. The second question is also the question of what type of restaurant activity is involved. The cafe has a different risk profile than the karaoke restaurant, as we know. In addition, we need to consider these outdoor terraces. Everyone understands that on the outdoor terrace, for example in Lapland or other ski resorts, people can be better controlled when they enjoy lunch or other food serving than if they pack up very close to each other at campfire sites and then ignore these security regulations. In many places, this particular authorisation of an outdoor terrace could be a safer option than it would therefore not be allowed at all. Now we have to focus our attention on the period after the lock, that is, the period after mid-April and how to return to normal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u33	Congressman Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u34	Madam President! Mr Kauma spoke very well above, and I would like to start by saying that I support these proposals for statements made by him, which are contained in this protest, in which the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy are signatories. But, Mr President, a few words: Indeed, it is very important that this draft statement also highlights what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has called for and what has been said throughout the year in this House, that we should be able to make a more precise distinction between different restaurants and, on the other hand, that we should be able to focus more regionally. And Mr Kauma also spoke very well about the need to be able to find a distinction between cafés and nightclubs, for example, in relation to the risk profile of the activities in terms of health safety. One concrete example is, for example, the very main outdoor terraces at this time of year, whether they are gas station terraces for snowmobiles or outdoor terraces for outdoor sports. When people have to get food anyway, it is certainly more health - safe that the meal can be arranged by the entrepreneurs on the terrace, taking into account all the provisions that must be taken into account in this time when it comes to hygiene, than that the meal is done by crowding already in cramped campfires, for example, without necessarily any conditions for taking care of hand hygiene there. But, Mr President, just a few aspects which I do not think have yet been taken into account in this debate. Of course, what is included in these objections is that it is a very good thing that VAT should be reduced in the case of the granting of VAT, but the government of the country should in future take account of the permanent reduction in the VAT rate for the whole of restaurant activities, given the way out of this crisis caused by the pandemic. It would send a clear signal to the sector that the government hopes that restaurants will continue to invest and develop in the future, and that Finns will use these services. A permanent reduction in the VAT rate for both food and drink would be such a measure. And one small measure, as part of the big package that makes the wheels of the economy run again, could be, for example, that the tax deductibility of representation expenses would be full, on the one hand, and that debt that has been created in such a way that companies have not been able to manage and develop their customer relationships,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u35	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u36	Madam President! Representative Savola said earlier that a year ago there was much more unity than at present, but there is really a reason for that. A year has gone by here, and the regional and sectoral review has still not been properly completed, i.e. putting all the restaurants in virtually the same bundle. The only thing that now came as one of the good things is that the transport stations were viewed in a slightly different way because of transport professionals, which in itself is good, but there is still a lack of regional vision of how they are done. Even nutritionists don't seem to keep up with all the stuff. Yesterday, too, I went to see a restaurant manager in person, and he complained a little that when he wasn’t always there, where he was going and what instructions he was complaining that when he asked the avi, the avi replied to him that they didn’t know any better than he did. So now, somewhere, I can't help but feel like I can't get a good look at the people out there. Now we really need to find out what these policies and subsidies are and then we need to make some progress on that. It's the same thing as in these overcrowded locks, which means it's gonna be easy to cause more pain than the disease itself. This is where Mr Hassi listed the results of the various countries, and the nodling was around there, but you are forgetting in this comparison that these countries, which it listed, virtually failed to take any restrictive measures. It did not come from the fact that restaurants were closed or some others, but it goes without saying that even if we had had a little more freedom in this job, it would not have been in the same situation. Well, whatever it is now, now the real thing is that all the restaurants and all the places can be closed, but then the wallet can rest and pretty quickly, because it's the pain now that if those restaurant owners don't actually get to come, then you have to compensate in some way. And yet, now that money has actually moved with the EU and so on, it should be obtained. Of course, it would be much more reasonable for them to try in some way to make some sort of result than for the whole money to come only in support, so to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u37	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u38	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Happy palm Sundays all over the world for everyone who celebrates it. This presentation about continuing the restaurant lock is sad, but necessary. I also have to say that I understand the concern of restaurants and entrepreneurs when they feel that their own sector is being closed down at the same time as commercial advertising is being carried out and people are being invited to shops and shopping centres and, in a way, they are refusing in practice to transfer the ale to the network or to move the entire sub-period a little later. Of course, there are many people whose restaurant is closed in this context who are experiencing great injustice. At this point, solidarity would be desirable. I have a point which I feel is something that unites us all, and I hope that the next follow-up speeches which are related to this will perhaps compromise this, because I feel that our entire party system and the entire market system are partly responsible for this, which I shall now talk about, namely for the concrete reason why we feel that we have to make even stronger closures and restrictions. In addition to being selfish, some people, some of us, go to places where we do not have to go and cause it by their own actions, but the other practical reason that is very technical is that we are not able to arrange as much as we might want. We have the necessary facilities, we have the technical equipment to do so, but we do not have the people to do so. And that is because of this chronic, long-standing problem of chronic health problems, which include poor working conditions in that area. Work management is not in order: where doctors run nurses, nurses tell us that it would be best if that job management were done by supervisors, professionals. It's a very bad salary. The direction of progress in the care sector, in the health sector, is weak in general. Likely, people would be better off if they were able to look into the future in their own field, be able to get along with their wages, and so on. Well, now the government has given the municipalities the opportunity to reward even partially and financially the nurses and others, so to speak, on the frontline during this crisis. Now it's time for the employers. Employers must use this corona supplement, which they have received, in the municipalities and health care districts and direct it to these people. . . [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u41	Congressman Kimmo Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u42	Mr President! Today has not been the best day for me with regard to these technical devices. The machines seem to be against me. Is it because of Sunday, Mr President? This is also exceptional that Parliament actually meets on Sunday, and also on palm Sunday. Yes, we are living in a very exceptional time, this corona age, and it is also visible in this palm Sundays in that there was no refreshments except one of my grandchildren who came to greet his grandfather, otherwise no. We live in special times. As I drove here, a citizen called me and wondered: the Korona era, restrictive measures have been taken in Parliament. Why is Parliament on vacation? What's all this about being on vacation? And I told you: Mr Citizens, I am at my best driving to Parliament on Sunday to do official work. So this is the situation now that we do not want to send a message as if it were a proper signal to the citizens, that Parliament takes this interest period very seriously, takes all the measures seriously, and we will also be working next week, including the committees. Of course, it is important to take this into account. Finland has done exceptionally well. That is what we are all saying about this interest rate, thanks to the actions of the government and, of course, thanks to the actions of the citizens who have tried to follow these restrictive measures. And yes, as Mr Hassi has said here earlier, we are constantly getting different kinds of messages from citizens, why these restrictions are still being pushed forward: Isn't this going to go off? Vaccinations are already under way. Why are restaurants still being vaccinated here, making normal life difficult, and so on? The only answer to that is that we have achieved a good record, a good result in tackling the corona epidemic in Finland, thanks to the restrictive measures that have been taken, including those aimed at restaurants. I do listen with a very sensitive ear to what the opposition here is saying about whether there is a little more reasonable scope to compromise these measures in relation to the regions, the types of restaurants and so on. I'm sure this is the total consideration we're doing here. Parliament is doing this on its own side at committee level and also at plenary level, and the government is doing this. Unfortunately, all we can do now is take this train forward and hope that these restrictive measures will help to keep this interest rate under control in Finland and then, by the summer, start normal life.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u43	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u44	Mr President! I will continue the debate on these ponies, which we shall be voting on shortly. The reason for this debate is that wine in restaurants is expensive and of good quality, which is why we would like to get the price down by lowering the tax and also to allow it to be sold out. Yes, expensive wine gets drunk in the same way as cheap wine, and even wealthy people have alcohol problems, and wealthy people can also afford to drink it just as much as poorer people do this cheap wine. We've got interest rate death, according to the latest data from THL 817. During the same period alcohol has caused at least its 1,700 deaths, quite direct deaths. With this comparison, I do not wish at all to underestimate the danger of the interest rate — I take it very seriously — nor the need for strong interest rate measures, but at the same time, Mr President, I call for honesty and consistency when our objective is to protect the health of citizens and prevent death. Yes, other risk factors must be borne in mind, and, at least not in addition to interest rate measures, efforts should be made to strengthen the risk factors that lead to alcohol-related diseases, social problems caused by alcohol and deaths caused by alcohol.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u45	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u46	Mr President! Now that palm Sunday is celebrated, the traditional greeting of palm Sunday is: “I wish you well and good. “ That is what the Levites have been doing all along as they go from door to door, and this wish is especially appropriate at this time of our life. A very exceptional time is at stake. We are sitting here on Sunday, and next week the committees will also have full working days: The Constitutional Committee, for example, sits exceptionally on Monday. On Monday, the traditional Parliament does not work, because many representatives are involved in municipal policy, but now, exceptionally, tomorrow, the committees will meet. Tomorrow, in an expert hearing in the Constitutional Committee, we will hear their views on these restrictions on mobility. Here in Finland, we have had to deal with these corona restrictions a bit like patchwork, so it is very difficult to see the overall picture. When we look at what has happened in the rest of Europe, there have been complete, complete closures. There have been schools, colleges closed. The grocery stores have been open, but the other stores have had to keep their doors shut. Restaurants and bars have been closed. There has been a need for masks in public transport, and there has also been a reduction in the traffic of public transport. In other words, very comprehensive measures have been taken elsewhere, and Finland is now coming here a bit like in the aftermath. We have been doing reasonably well so far, but this conversion virus has now changed this situation because, according to our experts, this conversion virus is much more contagious than the original variant. Well, in this patchwork we will, of course, now have to look at these compensations for restaurants, but other sectors too have suffered huge losses as a result of this crisis, and one of these sectors in addition to the restaurant sector is the field of events, the creative sectors. Both of these sectors employ more or less the same amount in Finland — they create 130,000 and the restaurant sector around 140 000 — and it is absolutely essential that when we consider compensation for one sector, we do not forget that there are many sufferers in this corona crisis. Just recently, we were here discussing the way in which children and young people need to get out of this discipline in some way. Now that we are talking here about the closure of restaurants, we must remember that the government has said here on several occasions that as soon as we get better control of this disease, children and young people will be the first group in which these restrictions will be relaxed,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u47	Congressman Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u48	Mr President! The interest rate crisis and the restrictions introduced to tackle the interest rate have dealt with companies and entrepreneurs in different sectors in very different ways. As we know, the grocery trade, for example, is flourishing and, at the same time, particularly strong restrictions have been imposed not only on the restaurant sector, which we are now discussing, but also on the event and culture sector, and I do not believe, however, that these affected sectors have received sufficient compensation even for the losses that have been caused directly by state restrictions. I would like to raise two points. There is certainly a broad consensus in Finland that the corona virus should be controlled by effective and correct means. And as the epidemic has been going on for more than a year, I think it is becoming increasingly clear that the restrictive measures should be based on knowledge, first of all on historical knowledge of where the infections have actually taken place and, secondly, on increasing knowledge of the mechanisms or conditions which prevent them. Now, the government's proposals and also the expert opinions continue to emphasise to the committees only the mechanism by which the virus is transmitted — i.e. people-to-people contacts know that the virus is contagious — but I would like to draw attention to the fact that, for example, the explanatory statement of the proposal before us does not mention the number of infections in food restaurants. Such a much more subtle assessment of restrictive measures, the differentiation of different types of restaurants with a risk profile, has already been called for on several occasions by the Constitutional Committee and has, lastly, paid serious attention to the Government's consideration of different types of nutrition movements in the future in a more differentiated way. For some reason, this differentiated examination of the types of restaurants seems to be a particularly difficult task for the government, and now I believe that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has done a good job and has again drawn attention to this in its report. And now it is the last moment that the government will take this into account in its actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u49	Congressman Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u50	Madam President! All the speeches that have been made, at least almost all of them, have reflected to a great extent the concern that results from this disease situation and its effects. For example, Mr Al-Taee has just described the health situation and the risks associated with excess capacity in hospitals. The health care staff has also been struggling for a very long time, and the threat of worsening the disease will certainly not make it any easier. For these reasons, unfortunately, we must now continue to do so, without doubt, as a drastic and blunt instrument: the closure of restaurants in areas of spread and acceleration of the virus. At the same time, almost all the speeches made have identified and recognised the heavy burden and the drastic effects that the continuation of the lock will have on the accommodation and catering companies and their employees. For this reason, it is essential that restaurants be supported and supported as fairly as possible and as quickly as possible — not many restaurants have much time left. We will discuss this further later today. Mr President! However, the most important thing for hotels and restaurants, as for all other companies, is to regain control of the disease situation so that people will dare to go back to the services. And in order to achieve this, the health authorities believe that it is necessary that these restrictions should now continue, and that is why we are now taking these decisions. Mr President! The report has been carefully drafted. It takes into account the views of the experts and, of course, the conditions required by the Constitutional Committee, including the finer division in future regulation. Finally, I would like to remind you of the Government's obligation to monitor the development of the disease situation at all times on the basis of expert knowledge from health authorities. Therefore, if the requirement of necessity is no longer met in an area where the disease situation is facilitated, the Government must take immediate action to amend the Regulation and to lift the restrictions. Similarly, as the disease situation deteriorates and the necessity criterion is met, the Regulation may be amended to include the area in question in the bracket. This situation must therefore be monitored closely at all times, and I am sure that we all hope that the situation will develop towards a better one.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u51	Congressman Werner.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u52	Madam President! Now we are dealing with a very difficult issue here, and of course we each have our own views on what decisions should be taken. But I see for myself that this is not about any bullying or malice. The fact is that the situation is still so serious that these restrictive measures are also necessary. We must ensure that all the measures that are being taken at the moment are also taken in order to curb the spread of this epidemic and to reduce the number of infectious diseases as much as possible. It's a difficult situation. And, of course, as the previous speaker said, the situation must also be constantly assessed and decisions made, even if the situation changes for the better. Evaluation is very important. Of course, I am not underestimating how this solution will affect entrepreneurs and workers in the sector, but we must now also take action to compensate companies for the losses caused by the situation. And today, here in plenary, we will be discussing the issue of fixed-term company cost support at the end of the debate. I would also like to comment on what Mr Al-Taee said earlier in relation to medical staff and human resources. If we experience a sudden increase in the number of patients in intensive care, it is no matter how many breathing machines we have there, if we do not have those iron professionals who use and treat the patients with high quality and safety. The municipalities and hospital districts have received corona support, and I warmly support that, in this situation, of course, it should be targeted at the medical staff, without forgetting the institutional administrators and the pharmacists who make it possible for the patient to receive the best care possible. Now we still have to step up and hold on, so that in the summer we hope that the situation will be different and that we will be able to support the companies in the restaurant sector and then support their livelihoods. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u53	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u54	Mr President! I would like to comment on Mrs Räsänen's speech in such a way — when she quite disapproved these motions for resolutions Nos 2 and 3 — that, in number 3, we proposed that Parliament should require that the sale of wines be temporarily allowed to restaurants with a right of residence, and this was based on the fact that the restaurants have become aware that, during these restrictions, wines have accumulated in storage, among other things. It would be justified for them to be able to sell these wine in storage when they are selling other wine out of it at the moment. Mr President! Then, with regard to the issue of VAT, the idea of temporarily reducing it from 24 to 14 per cent is that if people move to restaurants with some cheaper alcohol, then the amount of food they eat at the restaurant will also increase and in this way we will, as it were, be able to get it out of the homes and into the restaurants if it can be said so brutally. I took a bill on this same issue last year and found out, among other things, that: In 2018, the Natural Resources Agency has explained that if VAT were to be reduced to 14% and passed on to prices, it would be directly reflected in the price of alcohol so that it would be 8% cheaper in restaurants than it is now and that on an annual basis it would increase sales by EUR 127 million and the sale of domestic products and services also outside restaurants by EUR 172 million for the whole subcontracting chain. I would also like to point out that these VAT issues often need to be accepted in the EU, but as far as these restaurant services are concerned, this reduction to 14% has been possible since 2009 because an amendment to the directive was already adopted to allow restaurant services to be included in the lower VAT rate. So we've had it for over ten years, but it hasn't been done. In our opinion, in the context of the assembly, it would have a good effect both on the operation of restaurants and on the safety of people, in order to transfer their alcohol consumption to restaurants, in a certain way, also to controlled conditions and, at the same time, to move the restaurant culture towards a more European and international approach.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u55	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u56	Madam President! At the outset, it is necessary to express that concern as a representative of the labour movement, which I still believe to be: the maintenance of the medical staff. We may not be able to take too much notice of the importance of the people we have in this situation of disease, to the point of exhaustion. Very bad messages come from the fact that the limit of endurance is so close that there is no right condition or willingness. Of course, there too, because of this disease situation, the stress of getting infected and taking to one’s own family circle is quite a mental burden. On this subject, which we are discussing here, it must be said that these proposals for statements are terribly difficult to oppose and criticise, because they are part of the big issue we should be able to see. When Mr Kalli has pointed out that we have to follow all the time, we have to be able to see where and where the disease is going to start, we have certainly all been read in the papers about how many of these infections and exposures come when people are able to get to their own people. We certainly have an idea of what the Prohibition was at the time — insidious, different kinds of grey economy in relation to it — and yes, this barrage has also fed the shadow that there are gatherings. I do not want to use the term ‘drinking alcohol under controlled conditions’, as used by Mr Kauma, when alcohol is offered in restaurants. That's the big thing from now on. This is a rather difficult question for me when I have been collecting more than a hundred names with colleagues on behalf of the right to sell out small breweries. At this point it must be said that we should look, as the song of the workers says, in whose ranks you stand, whose flag you carry, but let it be seen. There have been excellent speeches on this issue throughout, but there is concern that this disease situation is bad and that the ability of the medical staff to cope there is the other extreme.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u57	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u58	Madam President! Mr Kiljunen's speech provoked me to make this speech, not because he told me that he had had one grandchild coming to visit him and that I had two grandchildren coming to visit me. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u60	Congressman Kiljunen, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u61	Mr President! I think Mr Zyskowicz drew attention to the very same thing I wanted to talk about: the media are creating a reality image for us, and that is the way people react to politics and political actors. We are meeting on Sunday and we are getting the impression that we are not taking this corona crisis seriously. It is not only the YLE that is doing this, but there has also been similar writing in the afternoon papers, in a way, the contempt of parliamentary work, what we are doing. In this regard, although internationally, the Finnish Broadcasting Company has been puzzled about how it is possible that the decision-making system, the parliamentary decision-making process, can be devalued in Finland in this way, compared to other countries where these restrictive measures have been taken in cooperation and without questioning the motives on which we Members of Parliament are acting. This was a strange situation, and in this respect I strongly agree with Mrs Zyskowicz that the YLE should pay attention to its own behaviour.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u62	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u63	Thank you, Madam President. And for my part, too, I would like to wish the President and the honourable Members good palm Sundays. We have had a good debate, and I wanted to speak myself when we were restricting the activities of restaurants. As Mr Al-Taeee has said here, this is a sad but certainly necessary measure, and I personally believe that we should also try to counterbalance the situation, the plight of the entrepreneur, in all respects, to the extent possible, even after these closure measures. There has also been a debate today on the use of alcohol. In the past, a reform of the Alcohol Act has been carried out by Mr Kärnä, which showed that estimates of the increase or increase in alcohol consumption have not been correct. Yes, Finland has learned to drink, and the Finnish alcohol culture has changed. But now, if because, for restaurant entrepreneurs, you should find some freedom to pursue your business: later on, you give. These are good proposals from the opposition, and I would hope that they will then be taken into account later. As far as this right of sale of alcoholic beverages is concerned, I believe that it would not bring Alko down but would help the food industry in crisis to find a fresh start in an uncertain situation. After these blocking measures, these measures must also be put in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u64	Congressman Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u65	Madam President! There have been many good speeches in this debate. Last above representative Mr Kettunen had a very good speech and Mr Myllykoski, for example. On the other hand, I would now like to ask: why do you think that these good statements by the opposition will eventually be introduced — why not now? Yes, as the country's supreme authority, we certainly have the power to express Parliament's will on these issues so that we can move in the direction that would be a sensible social policy. On the contrary, I see that in a crisis of this kind, in all its horror, there must also be an opportunity to dare to make changes in social policy. The really important and good message that I hope many of the speeches from here have also moved forward in a difficult place for the nursing staff is certainly something that the whole Chamber shares. We want to reduce the load that comes to the ICUs here because of the virus epidemic, but we are sure to be concerned about the staff's survival in the future. For example, Mr Räsänen presented figures on how much alcohol, for example, takes people to intensive care. But I personally want to believe that we actually have the means to reduce these alcohol-related harms, for example, while making a progressive policy in that way that we are now changing the alcohol culture, for example. I would like to see that, when this pandemic is over and can, for example, be returned to restaurants with the greatest security of mind, for example, it is by lowering the VAT rate that we will be able to control the consumption of Finns, both in terms of restaurant food and good drink, to places where quality services and high-quality products are actually offered, and to get rid of the phenomenon of previous years, for example, which was called the alcohol rally in Estonia, for example, because it is now quite obvious that there is a much greater risk of over-use of alcohol, for example, if there is a flat-top drink in your own garage, whether it is milder or stronger than in a situation where alcohol is consumed in a smart context. Could it, Myllykoski, be a good term for this, that there is a smart framework, a framework where there is proper social control, but if there was a problem for any reason, there would also be control? But even now, even in these situations, where a large part of the country is not really in the grip of this epidemic, high - quality restaurants can also be served directly on the tables. It should be possible. But indeed, Mr President, I would like to call for a lower VAT rate to be a market economy mechanism to guide people's purchasing power to the right targets, to those companies that are able to provide products and services, including cost-effectively, and then have done well. It would not be necessary to consider compensation in the form of the mere distribution of subsidies, when, for example, VAT refunds would now be made, and then fair VAT reductions would create opportunities for restaurants to develop their activities in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u66	Congressman Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u67	Madam President! This is indeed, as many have pointed out, a sad and difficult decision, or, in particular, a sad, necessary restriction of this type of restaurant activity. Similarly, as I said in this Chamber earlier this week, when we discuss restrictions on movement, when decisions of this kind are taken, where they are necessary, necessary and carefully weighed, we should constantly avoid getting used to doing them too easily, but each time we wonder critically whether this is the right, best and most effective measure and whether compensation is sufficient, for example. At the same time, the concern about health, health safety, the spread of the disease and the fact that we are already aware at these levels that this burden on the medical staff is enormous and that concern should not be forgotten that they are supporting our health at the moment. This has also been highlighted earlier in the debate by the various risk profiles of different regions, different restaurants and restaurants. This is a very important point which the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also takes into account in its report. For example, in the light of current information, it is quite clear that the risks of infection in outdoor areas are significantly lower than in indoors. There seems to be evidence that these kinds of ventilation and other space arrangements can reduce the risk of infection, and this is of course important to take regulation into account even better than at present, especially when it comes to information being accumulated. At the same time, however, it is worth noting that we now have a situation in which infections are already quite high, and that is why this restriction measure is now being imposed. It is essential to reduce people-to-people contacts now, and there are, in a way, two different things: it is if we could print the infections well down, and the fact that, as the vaccination progresses, we can again stress that those restrictions are such that they take care of health-safe business, events and things like this. As long as they are high, it is, as it were, necessary to stress that it does not explode, that they do not start spreading at a terrible rate, when we are in a much more difficult situation again. So these are a little different, this action and then the continuation — or the focus here is different from the ones on the extension restrictions or those that were in force before this, and I think this is a good thing to understand on the other hand. But, as the committee says in its report, it is important, of course, to take account of the risk profiles and only to do what is necessary and justified here too. By the way, I share here the concerns about the restaurant sector and the state of the restaurant industry and I urge you to consider various measures to create a positive view of the sector out of this and to facilitate it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u68	Congressman Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u69	Madam President! A number of good speeches have been made here. I'm in a little pain myself. The opposition itself has made good proposals for statements, but of course it is acknowledged that these statements would unfortunately not make any progress. So I myself have lost hope, I am absolutely convinced that, no matter what government base, which minister sits there in the STM, the issues relating to the facilitation of alcohol sales will not move forward. That is because, above all, there is a staff in the bunker with this issue. [Column Group : Ohhh! ] I hope that Mrs Myllykoski's initiative, which has been signed by more than a hundred Members of Parliament, will be a success. In a similar way, we should bring in an initiative of some kind that would allow this distance selling mess to be corrected, as well as repairing the retailing of restaurants. And I do not think it would be a bad thing if we had someone who was eager to take a citizens' initiative on this issue, because this is one of those things, I feel that the vast majority of Parliament is in favour of these things, but for some reason these things are unfortunately not moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u70	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u71	Mr President! It is clear that the sooner we get rid of this wretched disease, the sooner we will be able to return to normal life. When we need these measures to a very large extent, then I think we should also, as the representative said — in fact, he left the Chamber — listen to experts in this vaccination order, for example. Experts have pointed out that in large urban areas, where the incidence of the disease is significantly higher than in many other areas, we would also be able to improve this overall disease situation in these larger urban areas, such as the capital region. Now that the capital region is being subjected to exceptionally strong measures, such as today, when we deal later on with this restriction of movement, it is quite clear that the whole of Finland will benefit from the fact that we will be able to press down this disease situation. As the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated on several occasions, when the necessary conditions are not met, these restrictive measures must be dropped. That is why this is a serious matter, Mr President. There has also been talk here about the situation in the care sector, about the way in which the medical staff should be valued in its entirety, as well as in financial terms. Now that I see more MEPs in this Chamber, not everyone is involved in municipal policy, I appeal to you, who are here — Mr Kauma and Mr Laiho, Mr Hopsu and Mr Elo — we are also HUS decision-makers, and the medical districts have the opportunity to reward their own staff, to take those decisions without any kind of state intervention. Now that many compensations have been given to the municipalities, it is up to us municipal decision-makers to see how these compensations are being used. Here we might well require HUS to reward its own employees, who are there in the front line of the corona, with compensation that would certainly be necessary for this group of workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u72	Congressman Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u73	Madam President! On 2 November 1994, the sitting on Finland's accession to the European Union began. That session lasted more than four days straight, and when Saturday turned into Sunday, Vesa Laukkanen from the Alternative for Finland gave a 6.5-hour speech, which is the longest in history. That was the last time that Parliament had met on Sunday, but that session began on Wednesday. It is even more exceptional: we have a sitting on Sunday. It is not news, of course, that I agree with Mr Zyskowicz, so that in that sense it is not surprising to bring it up, but in view of what is a picture of politics and policies, it is an argument made in public and it is implied that interest rate measures would be slowed down by the fact that we do not want to work, it is cheap populism from the press that I would not like to see. It is no credit to journalism, and it gives the wrong impression of the work that all parties are responsiblely doing in this Parliament. Also, the idea that as important as restricting mobility, going to fundamental rights, swinging through this Parliament without listening to experts, without being familiar with it, and without careful reports being made with changes, is a strange idea of how to deal with citizens' affairs in Finland. Madam President! This proposal, which we are now discussing, the continuation of the restaurant closure, is an unfortunate one. None of us would want to be here to decide that, but it seems that it is also necessary. We must put this corona crisis under control, and one way, one measure, is to keep to the places where the corona has spread. But as we continue the barrage of restaurants, it is vitally important that we guarantee income and financial support for both entrepreneurs and service workers. There has been a lot of talk here about companies, but it must be remembered that this is a sector that employs tens of thousands of people, people with low pay who are in difficulty. We need to take care of these. Madam President! There has also been a broader debate on alcohol policy, and that certainly makes sense, and at some point, for example, this issue of out-sales should be looked at widely, but everyone understands that, during this corona crisis, this legislation will not be brought forward and that no restaurant will be saved in this situation, but will need the support of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u74	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u75	Madam President! I have to praise the chairman of my own parliamentary group and the vision that Mr Kiljunen and Mr Zyskowicz brought here, that how cheap journalism is even possible, and some people still say that they are special experts in parliamentary press.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u78	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u79	Mr President! I am pleased that these drafts 2 and 3 of the Assembly have given rise to a great deal of debate here among the representatives. They are, therefore, talking about reducing VAT on alcoholic beverages and the sale of wines. And I would like to say here, even though Mr Kärnä has already left the Chamber, that he said here that these things are not moving forward because officials from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health are reluctant to do so. And yes, I personally believe that the officials cannot be blamed here, but that will must be found in this Chamber in particular among the Members of the European Parliament. In our meeting, for example, Mrs Wallinheimo has taken a legislative initiative to allow distance selling, which would have allowed small breweries to sell products to the front door. That is what Mrs Myllykoski has just spoken about. And I myself have taken a legislative initiative, as I have just said, to reduce VAT on this issue to 14%. These are, therefore, measures that should at least be tested under pandemic conditions. This is a good circumstance to temporarily introduce such provisions, which normally have not been, and then, after the pandemic, we could assess the impact they have had, and then, for example, make an overall proposal which takes account of these VAT issues, the sale of wines, distance selling and so on. But I would also like to say to that previous speech by Mrs Myllykoski, in which you said that you would not so much say that under controlled conditions, in restaurants, it would be better to offer this alcohol: I myself had used this statement earlier, but I brought it up because we still have parliamentarians here who are very much opposed to this reduction in VAT on alcohol in the restaurants there, and I think that would be a good argument for them that at least the circumstances would then be more controlled. But, of course, it is possible to think so and I myself think that, above all, restaurants provide a smart framework and other services in this context, along with this indulgence. In other words, I really hope that the government will take on these issues and bring comprehensive proposals to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u80	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u81	Madam President! I can well understand that drinking alcohol in services is safer than in homes and streets, but during this restaurant closure, these proposed ponies would be directed at the very place where alcohol is sold for domestic use, not to the restaurant under supervision. It is also true and gratifying that the drunken drinking of Finns, especially young people, has decreased, and among young people there is also an increasing proportion that is quite sober, which is a very good trend. But this principle has not changed: the more access to alcohol, the lower the price, the more consumption and the greater the disadvantages, and still, in comparison, the number of deaths, morbidity and social harm — even today’s figures — the more alcohol is simply worse for public health than it is for public health, in fact, more than a corona. Of course, there are particular risks to the corona if these strong measures are not taken, that is, there is a very much worse scenario, but these facts are currently such that, from a public health point of view, alcohol problems must continue to be taken seriously. Here, Mr Arhinmäki raised important points about this situation for both restaurant entrepreneurs and service workers. It is very important, of course, that this cost support be allocated to entrepreneurs in this situation, but I personally would also like the government to bring in proposals for a temporary law on unemployment benefit, of which we had already had experience, in order to speed up these lay-off processes for entrepreneurs and to make it easier for these laid-off workers to get rid of the days of unemployment security.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u82	Congressman Vartiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u83	Mr President! It is very nice that these statements by the Assembly have received so much positive attention here. But I would like to remind you that we cannot go behind the backs of officials in these matters. These matters are, of course, up to the government, whether it is a question of selling out the wine warehouse or, for example, a vaccination order or, for example, the salaries of the care staff, on which representatives of the government have made very pious speeches here. Of course, officials do exactly what the government tells them to do. However, I think that this could show such pragmatism that, while restaurant entrepreneurs have accumulated considerable stocks and many are on the verge of bankruptcy, one might even temporarily think that they could sell out this stock. I can assure you that such a change of law could be made reasonably quickly. I also listened to Mr Guzenina speak on the vaccination order. That, too, is, listen, Congressman Guzenina, in the hands of the government. The National Vaccination Expert Group and this morning experts in Helsingin Sanomat suggested regional targeting. Here again, Minister Annika Saarikko told me that she has not received such a performance. But that is the fact that the government will make proposals if it wants to, and this should be quite clear. Or, in a way, think of the paradox that, even in this Chamber, we are discussing the question of restricting fundamental rights before we have even managed to put the border issue in order. Somehow, I think that many of these speeches are very pious now that things are in the hands of the government. The same applies, of course, to the pay of the care staff. In Finland, care and health personnel have lower wages than in all other Nordic countries. That will not change unless the chronic shortage of resources in general government changes, and we will never get rid of it unless the employment rate rises. That is why we are able to hold a meeting, too, to remind us of the need for employment reforms. Sometimes there's a lot of barking about what terrible squatters and robbers we're supposed to be, but that's what this is all about. Finland is the only Nordic country that is not sufficiently adapted to ageing. The fact that the salaries of care staff are lower than that of other Nordic countries is due to this and will not be corrected until this changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u84	Representative al-Taee, one-minute reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u85	Mr President! I'm wondering about Congressman Vartia right now. He is one of the strongest supporters of the market economy in this country. He's proud of it, and I like it, and I'm proud of it. But now, in these nursing salaries, on this issue, you went to the side of socialism. These are not the decisions of the government. The government has already provided the municipalities with funds for these, and employers must pay that salary now, not the government. And here's where I say hello to the medical districts and the municipalities — that's where it's going to happen. It is not in the hands of the government, but in the hands of these independent actors. We can't do that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u86	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u87	Mr President! It is a great thing that we are talking about social welfare and health care, nurses' salaries. Yes, they have been mentioned here before, and the basic Finns have repeatedly highlighted the low wage development of employees in the social services sector. In the course of the corona crisis, we have been raising the issue of the special interest rate for social workers a year ago, I believe, as the first parliamentary group. In my opinion, the government could once say from the box that the social workers have earned their added value. We have asked here how you support the staff, but there is no answer. Let us make various restrictions and hope that the social workers will be able to cope. Of course, Finland still has the guts and vocation, but when you look at the world's statistics and follow the international news, it is shocking to hear, for example, how things are going in Brazil not only with patients but also with nurses.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u88	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u89	Mr President! I'm glad we're talking about medical staff salaries here. Mr Juvonen, the municipal decision-maker in Espoo, too, you know very well how this logic works. For example, in the case of HUS, it works now that the government has made up for these interest payments to municipalities with a very large amount of hands.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u90	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u91	Mr President! The ability and availability of nurses is at the heart of this whole corona crisis, and I am certainly in favour of giving carers carrots here instead of just a stick, and that is what is needed. At the same time, when it is said that the municipalities have received the money and the hospital districts — that is the case, but the money has not been allocated according to which regions have suffered the most. It's not like you're cheering for that money in Uusimaa, for example. So now look to the government that we are also actually spending more money on those regions that have suffered the most from the corona. It is there that most of the staff is needed and that there is a need for incentives for staff to be able to work overtime and to be flexible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u92	Now the debate goes a little beyond accommodation and nutrition. — Mr Werner, please refer the debate back to the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u94	I will give the answers to Mr Reijonen and Mr Vartiainen, and then we will return to the subject, or we will be able to return to the subject on these terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u95	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad I didn't have to stay on the subject. [The President : Needs! — Laughter] The issue of interest and the ability of nurses to cope is extremely important, and then we need to think about how we will continue to keep the nurses and how the care sector will remain attractive. It is extremely important how we can attract this sector. There's gotta be carrots.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u96	Now, Mr Vartiainen, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u97	Mr President! Quickly only to Mr Werner, however, that the government has a key role to play in making the situation in the public sector easier indirectly. Raise the employment rate to 78%, and you will find that there are also quite different resources for the care staff. And that 78% can be found, for example, in the alternative budget for the Coalition Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u98	To the list of speakers. Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u99	Mr President! I had to make a brief speech on the sale of alcohol from restaurants and small breweries, first of all about it, but when I was not able to get to the debate, I would like to comment on the others. The fact that we have to ask for or hope for citizens' initiatives here sounds a little sad to me, so I would hope that the initiatives taken by Myllykoski and Wallinheim, among others, will move forward and that the voice of Parliament will be heard. I'm also in pain with these statements. I understand that there is no way in this timetable to regulate the sale of wines, and that is why these initiatives are important and I hope that they will proceed and that the Minister will also assume and assume the responsibility he has. Then questions arose about HUS’s possibilities for additional compensation, and we Espoan representatives in particular were challenged. I also hope that Espoo can take the lead from Helsinki, which has used this money to raise the salaries of medical staff. Perhaps we can also apply for a similar solution on the part of our municipality. I would remind you at the same time that this situation applies not only to medical and health care staff, but also to early childhood education, school and education staff who are constantly dealing with this corona situation, and this should be taken into account, for example, in the order of vaccinations when these regional vaccinations are launched. I am convinced that they will move forward as soon as these critical groups — such a debate — and I understand it is quite clear that experts will also be consulted here. Furthermore, Mr Räsänen drew important attention to the fact that companies would also be helped by the continuation of these lay-off clauses, which were in place earlier. I hope they will also move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u100	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u101	Mr President! As nice as it is here in Parliament to talk about, so I would like to point out that restaurants are currently waiting for this solution, and in this regard perhaps it is not worth going to this great debate on alcohol policy -- namely, they should know what to do tomorrow, whether to open the restaurants or not to open them up, and in this respect I hope that this debate will not expand terribly. But now that it's expanded, I'll say a few words. [Laughter] First, I hope that the medical staff will put this date very carefully behind the ear. Mr Al-Taee said that if municipalities ask for money to hire carers, they will also receive it. Remember this. This is a tough statement on the salaries of care staff, which is right in itself, but I hope that you will also keep your word that it will not happen with the May Day Hundred. Mr President! I'll catch up with a few more points. First of all, that now that these restaurants are being held very tightly under the blockades, so that this is a feeling of justice, then really... One year we have been asked to have our border measures under the same strict control, and this has now been requested, requested and demanded by the government and still not shown. There is a great deal of message from the nutritionists that they understand these actions, but they find it extremely unfair that their work and livelihood are closed and at the same time the border is open and completely unsustainable. This undermines the legitimacy of these restrictive measures, because the virus comes all the time again, over and over again, and if you did, a new dangerous mutation has been discovered, which Thailand is actually reporting.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u104	Congressman Laiho. — We are not going to the debate anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u105	Mr President! Restaurants really are now waiting for a solution to what they are doing tomorrow in their restaurants. And now we have this blocking motion, which has received support. In this situation, that is certainly justified, but we must ensure that these compensations are adequate and that we also have a way out of this. And here we have discussed the options and what the Coalition Party has raised here and has also pointed out in its statements that how to contribute to the support of the restaurant sector in this difficult situation. At the same time, here in Parliament we have a follow-up to the restaurant restriction bill, which in practice would be a death blow to many restaurants. In other words, after this three-week lock, there would be another performance that would beat up the restaurants and make a difference to those workers in terms of livelihood and life, the plans for the future. In other words, with regard to the proposal, everyone should now understand that we need to find the possibilities in which restaurants can operate in a health-safe manner and so that they cannot be ordered to close at six o'clock without having a significant impact on them: there can be tables serving, there can be security intervals, there can be outdoor terraces, and there can be hygiene, there can be an early reservation of some food restaurants and there can be an extension of the opening hours on that basis. It can be done in a controlled manner. All we need now is confidence in the restaurants from the decision-makers, from the government to ensure that the restaurants do it safely. I'm sure everyone agrees, or it doesn't seem like there's a need to define food restaurants and dating restaurants separately, profiled. Also, why have these presentations not taken into account the fact that they are different types of restaurants, food restaurants and dating restaurants, and the risk of spreading infection is also different in these very natural ways when one of them moves more and then has more alcohol to serve? It would certainly be necessary to take these matters into account in this next proposal, which is now before Parliament. And I hope that the parties in it are also really prepared to make decisions in Parliament that will help the restaurants survive.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u106	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u109	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u110	Mr President! I would just like to say to Mrs Laiho that no one here would want to impose restrictions on restaurants, under no circumstances, but this is the serious situation that is going on in this country. And I hope that these restrictions will now work in such a way that we will no longer have to go into further measures and closures for restaurants. Yes, we're there, we're there. We've heard that very loudly. It is therefore very important that entrepreneurs are now aware of what is happening and when, what can be done and what cannot be done. This uncertainty in the entrepreneurial field has also been extremely difficult, and at least I myself have been contacted. As far as the law and possible future laws are concerned now, proportionality is the key to this: not taking excessive measures. These measures merely aim to limit the disease to a precise extent so that it does not spread. And the third thing is that the compensation for entrepreneurs is not enough, but a small help is that they can also be adequately and quickly directed to these companies. This is where the government works and these things are missing. Finally, with regard to this legislation on alcohol, the spirit of the majority here has become clear what we want to do, and changes to the alcohol legislation in this country are needed so that entrepreneurs can operate more freely here, live more freely, and citizens are also trusted.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u111	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u112	Mr President! So now, with this government proposal, restaurants will be closed on 18 April. Until now, and there has been a good debate here about the impact it will have on restaurants, workers and people alike. The Finns of Peru are involved in the statements made by the National Coalition Party. There has been a debate here about the outsourcing of wines, that it would be temporarily allowed for restaurants with the right to drink, and this is precisely the case that when a person buys food from a restaurant, then on its side those who have the right to drink could sell wine, for example. There has now been a debate here about these disadvantages. In this debate, I would like to highlight this theme of pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer, which you raised, Mr Räsänen. We have two forms of cancer in Finland, about which it is said that you have fallen ill with this kind of disease, it is always said that you have your own fault. One is pancreatic cancer, and the other is lung cancer. It is true that heavy alcohol consumption increases, for example, pancreatic infections, as well as pancreatic cancer, it is not disputed. A lot of smoking increases lung cancer. But there are also cases where alcohol is not an explanatory theme. I would therefore like to take the floor because the reasons why so many people get pancreatitis, for example, are not necessarily found. There are various individual causes or protective factors. That Triangulation Hospital is very strong all the time, whether it's a corona or not. There are many surgical patients and various reasons why there is a tumor in the pancreas, for example. Which means alcohol alone doesn't explain. Of course it is the greatest risk, but then there is always part of those who do not explain it, and in that sense too it is important that we understand these patients that it may also be a great insult to say that alcohol caused your problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u113	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u114	Mr President! This debate has certainly been rather strange, when I have listened particularly to the representatives of the various government parties, particularly to these particular positions to be voted on here, one of which relates to this sale out of alcohol. It seems that only the Christian Democrats are wholeheartedly supporting this line in the report by the government and the committee on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u117	And Mr. Al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u118	Mr President! It must be made clear now and perhaps strongly emphasised that, now that we are making restrictions, including this restriction, cost subsidies, compensation payments, must be one step ahead of these restrictions. Then we will create a situation in which different entrepreneurs will have a view all the time about tomorrow, not only about whether tomorrow is open or closed, but especially about the company being able to stand. This is the way in which we should be able to change this order and try now to blackmail colleagues in the government and here in Parliament, so that we can make even greater progress on these issues of support, compensation, and then be one step ahead of these restrictions. Then again, from this order of vaccination. I cannot see that on ethnic grounds anyone should be vaccinated. It sounds kind of crazy, actually.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u119	Three statements have been made during the debate, so we must put the matter to the vote. The vote will take place in this part-session after a brief recess. The sitting and the proceedings shall be adjourned and the session shall resume at 2:35 p.m. — in the summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u120	The sitting adjourned at 2:26 p.m. and the third item in the order of business will now be resumed. In the debate, Pia Kauuma, supported by Heikki Auto, has tabled three motions for statements, which are in line with the objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u121	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Representative Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u122	Mr President! The purpose of this clarification is to provide regional government agencies and municipalities with more tools to close different premises and limit the pursuit of a business during a corona pandemic. It is notable that possible closures are said to concern spaces and activities with ‘special potential for the emergence of significantinfectious chains’. As has been said, the Act on communicable diseases is currently very confusing. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also stated in its opinion that the regulation of the Act on communicable diseases is partly unclear and does little to improve with the proposed amendments. Don't you think it's gonna be a little weak to draft the law? Sometimes it also seems that no one knows which activities are covered by the law at any time. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] Mr President! Entrepreneurs have taken many measures to prevent infection in their premises. For example, even studies show that gymnasiums have almost no risk of corona infection, it is simply wrong to shut down such facilities and functions altogether. Companies have also used their assets as well as their time to prevent infection: the number and capacity of visitors to the premises are limited, ventilation...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u125	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u126	President! Maybe a few words about this corona communication. Individuals and businesses are constantly contacting, and they do not know the limitations at the time. There should be a place where all the restrictions in each area would be easily accessible, such as a website that would be updated all the time, and people and businesses could look at the restrictions in that area. That could be very wise in the future. Then the speed of decision, maybe. My friend from New Zealand sent a message earlier in the spring: “There’s no other terrible chance. There was an announcement from 7 p.m. that the Prime Minister would hold a press conference at 9 p.m. You've already guessed that it doesn't know good, but think about one community case and some confusion in testing, and six o'clock in the morning at Auckland lockdown for a week. Tomorrow there would have been a big charity run and more than 10,000 registered for a big art event, etc. Not a lot of pressure. Lock the doors right now. And note. I just watched the Finnish Government's press conference online. It lasted 2 hours, 10 minutes. Here they usually last 15 minutes.” — That is to say, acts.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u127	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u128	Mr President! Today we have Article 58g of the Act on communicable diseases to be adopted. This law has just been adopted, and the Regional State Administrative Agency interpreted the law so that in groups of less than ten people, physical activity is possible in the space if health safety is taken into account. However, this did not happen to STM, which would have liked to close all the premises in a categorical manner. The Ministry and the Regional State Administrative Agency therefore had a different view of the interpretation of the law, which is why the proposal was re-introduced to Parliament. The Constitutional Committee supported the interpretation by the Regional State Administrative Agency of the law that events involving fewer than ten persons were allowed. We have raised an objection to this at the meeting. Of course, we understand that gyms should also be limited in the sense that health-security practices should be taken care of, but this proposal is now one of those performances where a sledgehammer can be used to do a few things and make it possible to operate in a health-security way. We have therefore objected to the statements which are about to be put to the vote here, and I will now read them to you: ‘1 )The Commission requires that the operation of the holdings which may have a surface area of 20 square metres This interpretation has been used in many European countries. ‘2.The Commission requires that the rights of citizens to statutory rehabilitation are Now, with this presentation, these facilities will be closed so that people who need legal rehabilitation will also not be able to receive it in such facilities — including water therapy. ‘3.The Commission shall require that closed operations do not reduce the use of premises at the time of their use in order to organise ‘4.The Council of State shall ensure that citizens’ sports opportunities and the ‘5 )The Commission requires that the training activities of horseback riding dealers And ‘6.The Commission requires that the implementation of the law should take account of the regional Mr President! We have just adopted the proposal for the closure of restaurants under the Act on communicable diseases, and now we have this motion on the gym. At the same time, we must also ensure that Finland does not get too easily across borders, bringing the virus here. People do not understand that the lives of Finns are being restricted here, even with restrictions on movement, and at the same time you can cross borders with the virus without any problems. At present, border traffic is very limited and can be targeted at these tests. But the Committee on Social Affairs and Health issued a statement in connection with the previous update of the Act on Contagious Diseases that the ministry should prepare this kind of pre-test system for borders. Well, it's pretty amazing, then, to read the Evening Journal this morning, which said that the Ministry has been given the impression that there is no such thing and that it is not possible. However, it is possible to do this in other Nordic countries and in most European countries, and third countries are also involved. What can stop it? Of course, Finland must send a message abroad that there is no coming here if there is no prior test. And then, of course, it is important that people are also being guided and tested here. But if you understand: When they say that the borders are in order, there is now 95 percent of that normal border traffic, and when you start raising it, then nothing can arrest them, nor can you test that amount of traffic. Yes, there must be such a pre-testing model, and some of those infections can be prevented in that way. Of course, it must not be the only way, but it must also be possible to direct it to the test if there is a need for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u131	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u132	Mr President! In this context, when we are discussing the amendment of the Act on communicable diseases, this applies particularly to those entrepreneurs who, through this legislation, are again forced to tighten up measures to pursue their own business. There was just a vote on the extension of the barrage measures for restaurants in three weeks. After all, this recent vote means that these entrepreneurs will find themselves in a more difficult situation. I do not think that we can lump all entrepreneurs in the same basket. There are also different restaurants. We know that food restaurants could well have remained open [Eva Biaudet’s interlude] Now we are making the same mistake, for example, with these sportsmen. We do not want to give them the opportunity to have that ten customers at gyms, for example. They want to close gyms and many sports facilities in practice. Such a simple procedure is not in any way justified. We do not have such research results data that would support the fact that categorically everything where people encounter health improvement, fitness, is somehow corona dangerous places. I would have liked this interpretation to go to the doors too, when the aids then go through this new law to interpret those measures, but I just think that the ministry will become the state of will which is that all those places must only be categorically closed in a given area, and that is not sensible. Mr President! Here a collection of one statement suggests that could be a 20-square area of one enthusiast in the premises that such a calculation principle would be used. Of course, such a basis has been used abroad, for example, in gyms, but it must be remembered that, abroad, gyms have generally had to wear masks. There are many gyms with masks, and it doesn’t bother the fitness worker if he wants to take care of his condition. I know gyms, and together, where I go, there's 1,400 square feet. If such mathematics were to be used, then there should be such 70 persons in the hall at the same time exercising, and it will not be possible again because the equipment has not been placed at least 2 metres apart. That is why I now bring up this example, that it is difficult for the doors to decide what may and may not be open. As a result, there should be a more individual examination according to the places of exercise where these distances have also been secured and these preventive measures have been taken, such as disinfection of equipment in such a way,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u133	Like this. — and Mr Tolvanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u134	Mr President! At the outset, I support Mr Laiho's proposal. That's good. We must all go ahead of health safety. I do not think there is any doubt in the Chamber about that, but the measures we are deciding on must be necessary and effective. For example, now that we take the gyms for this treatment, there are a wide variety of them. There are some where health safety is not guaranteed, but there are some where it can and has already been done. So I really hope that there will be a great deal of reflection from the authorities on these halls that we will not automatically categorically shut everyone down. For example, there are gyms and sports facilities with hundreds of square meters. There is already improved ventilation, reservation systems have been made so that only a certain number of people can get in at a certain time. Disinfection has been enhanced so that there is more of this kind of disinfectant odor constantly. I suppose it would be important for many of us, especially for those who need to maintain physical fitness in the sense of rehabilitation, in these difficult times to maintain physical fitness and also psychological fitness, and fitness is one of the best ways to help us cope in these difficult times. So now that this law apparently goes through in this form of how the government puts it, I really hope that the authorities will use the judgment they have and allow people to move where it is safe, but also the opportunity to continue their livelihoods for those entrepreneurs who have invested in health safety. There are already far too many entrepreneurs in the Republic of Finland in real difficulties, i.e. giving opportunities to those entrepreneurs who can operate in a health-safe way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u135	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u136	Mr President! We're closing the premises, and there's almost a full lockdown coming up. True Finns are concerned about what is justified and what is not justified. The Group of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health of the Finns Party recognises the severity of coronapandemia and the need to limit the spread of infections. The proposed regulation aims to exclude, among other things, sports and sports facilities from very small numbers of users for which, according to the interpretation of the Regional State Administrative Agencies, the existing regulation has allowed them to remain open. No evidence has been submitted to the committee that the infected chains have been set up from these holdings and that there are therefore appropriate grounds for closure. The question therefore arises as to whether, rather than the need for a real situation of infection, the proposal is based on some kind of conflict of authority between the ministry and the regional government agencies.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u139	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u140	Mr President! There is therefore a proposal for a temporary amendment to the Act on communicable diseases, specifying the possibility for the municipality and the Regional State Administrative Agency to close the premises of business or other activities intended for the use of customers or participants for a fixed period. I support Mr Reijos' motion for rejection and the statements made by Mr Reijos. Mr President! As restrictions and exclusions are prolonged, there is a need to assess the acceptability and proportionality of restrictions from the point of view of the freedom to conduct a business, it is emphasised. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has also pointed out the duty of the public authorities to compensate traders for the harm they suffer from not being able to use their assets in the way they intended to do and thus to pursue their activities. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also considered it important to compensate for the losses caused by the closure. The Government's proposal is, as the Finnish Olympic Committee has pointed out in its expert opinion, well-founded, or even deliberately misleadingly, when the explanatory statement states that the proposed amendment does not consider that there are significant independent effects. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats shares the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Citizens' Rights that the argument put forward is not justified at all, even though it can be seen that the proposal has a significant financial impact on the activities of the target companies and that it imposes restrictions on a large number of small companies whose activities have so far not been limited. The Group of the People's Party's Committee reiterates the comment made by the Association of Finnish Sports and Health Centres in its opinion that companies in the field have created practices to minimise the risk of infection and have done everything possible to ensure that customers can safely use the services of companies. According to the opinion, 59% of businesses in the sports sector have lost their turnover by at least half as a result of restrictions, and it must be further noted that the long-term nature of the restrictions is likely to damage their financial survival and jeopardise the survival of businesses, the jobs of workers and the livelihood of entrepreneurs and their families, if they are driven into bankruptcy unnecessarily by unnecessary or incorrect restrictions and excessive restrictions. When it comes to sports facilities and the closure of recreational facilities, we would also like to highlight the harm to mental health for children and young people. When young people are prevented from accessing the hobbies and social activities that are important to them, it inevitably has consequences. In addition to this, account must be taken of the loss of access to statutory rehabilitation services, as, for example, sports facilities, swimming pools and spas organise rehabilitation activities, which are reflected in the opinion of the Regional State Administrative Agency of Southern Finland, own of the Social Insurance Institution, and these activities have a negative impact on the fact that, for example, a person cannot receive this rehabilitation. This proposed legislative amendment is not acceptable because it is inadequately prepared and has financial implications in particular, but also has a weak information base. In other words, in the case of complex legislation, which is also partly unclear, it is very important that operators and citizens are also informed openly and clearly about what is at stake, and very often the legal texts do not make it easy to identify matters. The statements made by the people of Peru are good and are relevant to their subject, particularly Declaration 7, in which we expect the government to clarify its information on measures to combat the corona crisis, both to the authorities and to the public, and to ensure that both legislative changes and their arguments are clear and unambiguous in substance. It cannot be impossible to make clear-language legislation, nor can it be impossible for customers and entrepreneurs alike to be informed in clear Finnish and plain language that everyone knows what is being closed, when to close, where to apply for compensation and how to do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u141	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u142	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Temporary Act on Contagious Diseases by specifying the possibility for the municipality and the regional government to close the premises of the business or other activities intended for the use of customers or participants on a temporary basis. In other words, by this legislation and application, the government seeks to clarify the law so that it is even more in line with the purpose of the law. This is indeed an opportunity for open and local authorities to deny customers or participants access. It applies to holdings, underlining facilities with special potential for the emergence of significant transmission chains. In my opinion, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has taken this as a starting point and a necessity to take into account the overall well-being of a person. The complete closure of sports facilities also necessarily affects people’s ability to move, maintain their condition and maintain their health, i.e. the starting point for health must also be strongly taken into account. At the same time, the committee stresses that the closure of farms is a last resort and can only be used in situations where there is no other means to prevent the spread of the epidemic. Furthermore, given the strong view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the exercise of powers in this matter, the closure of powers, must meet the requirements of necessity and proportionality, that is to say, these starting points plus the emphasis here that the closure decision must not hinder anyone's right to legal services, there are quite a few locks here. Let us hope that these contagion clusters and chains will not be so unleashed that this legislation needs to be targeted. I can also see that this needs to be monitored. There have been excellent speeches here in the past that we should observe, because then these criteria are met, that places should be closed down. For the activities of the sports facilities themselves: There have been excellent speeches and discussions on the management of these premises and the measures taken by entrepreneurs, such as the representative. Simia also went through a long list of activities such as hygiene, cleanliness and other activities, as has been maintained by large sports companies and others. We ourselves have been able to use masks and gloves during this year, as we did when we got to the can. Here I also have the kind of concern that is behind these references when legislation is adopted or closure decisions are taken. Is it a domestic reference, or are we talking about foreign references when it comes to it? In Korea, for example, there was a zumba hall of 50 square feet, where 30 people started to be infected. After all, we have a different issue in Finland if we have 500 square feet or 1000 square meters of gyms where people are across the hall, so that it is almost impossible to get infected. I got the statistics from an entrepreneur, and he told me that they have had about 2 million visitors this year, 3 exposures and then 15 potential exposures, and this has not become a follow-up infection elsewhere. So, when you sum up the work that entrepreneurs do in the background, you sum up the attitude of those who go to such gymnasiums to their own health and life, then you probably also get fewer of these infections. However, if these places are to be closed, as the committee says here, the Constitutional Committee too, then this must be compensated for these entrepreneurs — I have just taken the example of this sports entrepreneur, but there are other activities here too — by its own legislation, exactly how compensation will then be given. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u143	Thank you. — Mr Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u144	Mr President! In this law, where the Act on communicable diseases is proposed to be amended, it is precisely Article 58g, where the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the regional government authorities soon after the legislation was enacted that became apparent a dispute of authority over the interpretation of the law. And indeed, when this law was enacted, it was quite clear to me that this closure would be possible if there were more than ten customers indoors, such as indoors. It must be borne in mind that, as it stands at present, this Act on communicable diseases is very strict. It is very exceptional given that it is ordinary legislation and not legislation intended for exceptional circumstances. Personally, I consider this government proposal to be overcompensated in the sense that if we think of these sports facilities, various gymnasiums, indoor playgrounds and other gymnasiums, they are very much invested in safety, and if there are a few people in large areas who are exercising, then the risk is certainly lower than, say, shopping facilities that are open anyway. For example, here in Helsinki there is a trampoline park with 800 square meters of space, and ten people currently use it at maximum. There are long, long distances between the players, and I see no reason why the authorities should be given the opportunity to close such places easily. From the dispute that we followed: Yes, it was apparent that they were quite easily caught up, and that is why I believe that this proposal has now been overstated. This is problematic for both entrepreneurs and citizens in the sense that it is also important for the prevention of serious forms of corona to be maintained,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u145	And now it's quite full. — Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u146	Mr President! We decision-makers are a little between wood and bark on these issues. It's just like that, like a representative. Mr Räsänen well described in the previous speech whether there were too many measures. On the other hand, once again, there will be strong feedback about why we cannot get faster decisions, why we cannot catch up more quickly if these clusters of diseases occur. This is a difficult matter, and that is why this legislation now wants to make it more precise. And, of course, the responsibility for these matters, for the implementation of these things, lies there at the level of the municipal and regional government agencies, where it is now possible to close these premises on a temporary basis if such chains of infection are detected. It is quite true that the facilities are very different, different sizes. It's just sad to watch a hockey game with a huge arena and no audience at all. After all, common sense would say that you could put ten or 50 or 100 viewers or a thousand viewers and sit there quite sparsely. But these are, of course, the decisions made by this executive authority on the basis of the legislation we have, and they are certainly not easy. Of course, there too, we must remember that people there would see each other at the kiosk or at the entrance or at the like, and that these risk situations would arise. But, Mr President, this issue of the order of vaccination is one that has come up in the debate here too, and I would like it not to come from the bottom of my heart, but every human life is important regardless of where Finland lives or how old it is. However, even in this common sense, and quite worrying, we still lack these vaccinations from certain authorities, from the authorities, from those responsible for security. This morning I received a message from a familiar police officer who worked last night with full protective clothing when he had to go to the client, a client who had a corona virus infection and who ignored what was happening to the environment. And yes, the police are such a group that should definitely be vaccinated now in this next wave immediately. These categories of staff are also dentists who have not been given access to this medical staff otherwise, or other actors critical to society. For example, teachers are such. Security, energy, food production, such critical groups must be able to take care of. But as far as this legislation is concerned, this is now very specific guidance, and the doors and the municipalities then have a responsibility to implement these.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u147	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u148	Mr President! Yes, when these reforms and legal changes are being made, we must always bear in mind that they must be properly targeted and also have some sense of proportion in them. I am very pleased that I have just read the Prime Minister's comment that he too believes that these vaccinations should be targeted at the worst corona areas. It is one of the key factors affecting the recovery of the whole country from this. Regional policy cannot be the basis for the distribution of interest rate increases, but rather what is, for example, the capacity of intensive care and how threatened it is in which area. Mr President! To this very point. Here Mr Pirttila from the government's ranks stated that the report and the government's proposal wanted to take account of the overall health and well-being of citizens. But now, when we look at these conclusions, that idea is not quite passed on to us. If, for example, we look at the situation in gyms and swimming pools, we could certainly have acted with much less restrictions. Many gyms, for example, have now had the appointment method in place. Thus, in the protest of the Coalition Party, we have suggested that the maximum number of persons in these gyms and swimming pools could be 20 square meters per person instead of the current 10 square meters, and that the maximum number of persons could also be that per 10 spaces and could be controlled. The sector itself, the gym sector, has proposed these types of measures, and therefore the complete closure seems to be a completely unacceptable measure, especially in areas and in the halls where there has been no infection. Mr President! I support all these objections to the Assembly which Mr Laiho has raised in the past. I would also like to point out from here that animal care, exercise and education cannot be interrupted during an epidemic. In particular, riding history and dog training activities are very important activities all the time. Animals don't understand whether there's a corona pandemic or not. They should be moved anyway. Mr President! I support these objections to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u149	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u150	Mr President! Firstly, with regard to this vaccination order debate, which has now taken place a little bit in this context too, I would like us all to think of this as an epidemiological issue of appropriateness, as is now being assessed here. They're made from mathematical models, aren't they? The Mika Salminen of THL has not said to himself that he looks like a slow train is heading towards the wall, but believes in the models that are being made at THL. In this respect, I hope that we will remember that, when we consider this, it may actually be that the emphasis on the vaccination order after the first groups at risk would also serve other areas which are not involved in this weighted vaccination, because if the epidemic spreads less, the risk of getting the disease before the vaccination reaches the point where it would affect will be reduced. In this respect, I hope that, as Mr Savola has rightly said, we will not be inciting the opposite of this, but we will be looking at it objectively, mathematically, in terms of what order is in the interests of Finns throughout the country. With regard to this amendment to the paragraph on the table, I would say that one important thing would now at last be to introduce an accelerated lay-off procedure, as was the case a year ago. When restaurants were closed about a month ago, it was said that it is only a matter of one sector, that there is therefore no need for a centralised solution under the leadership of the state to rush here. Now, however, we are talking about about about a thousand sports hall entrepreneurs alone, a thousand sports hall entrepreneurs. If, in two weeks' time, the Act on restrictions of movement enters into force and it is still appropriate to adopt a regulation in accordance with it, then we will be talking, for example, on the speciality shop alone, about 15,000 employees in the capital region and Turku alone. I am afraid that we are finally going to see a whole lot of situations where the entrepreneur's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier's cashier. It would be fairer for employees to get unemployment benefit and not have to wonder whether the entrepreneur would be able to afford them in the early part of April. For this reason, we have had the strength of the lay-off system in Finland, and it was also the strength that a year ago there was enough common understanding to introduce an accelerated procedure in a very good consensus. In general, in these restrictive measures, two things will come to my mind in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u151	I give a one-minute response to Mrs Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u152	Mr President! However, I would like to say to Mrs Mykkänen that we have a functioning labour market system, and I am not going in this situation to guide employers on how to act. It would now be important for companies, together with their elected trade union representative, to have these discussions completed. Now is the time to discuss with the staff, to negotiate in accordance with our own law and to agree on the measures that can be taken together to overcome this. It is very important for both sides to have this debate. We do not need a legislative amendment here, but it is the law that already exists when these matters can be dealt with locally, and the procedure for negotiation is the one that can take place here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u153	And back to the list of speakers. — Mr Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u154	Mr President! In this area, entrepreneurs have really done a great deal for things that have been done to ensure that the pandemic does not spread. As a matter of fact, let's look at the statistics or whatever, these targets haven't really turned out so bad. Of course, this would be understandable in some way if there had been a fair amount of interest-rate payments, but now it seems to me that we are perhaps a little too careful. It is clear that health ahead goes, but we always have to weigh in the balance what is safe and when we have to compromise that safety a little bit. It doesn't matter if it's on the road that if we want to go ahead of safety, no one is allowed to move at all, especially by any car or anything like that, where you might get hurt. Every day we have to work on what we're doing. It goes without saying that this is a bit like driving loose manure without a tailboard, but the situation is that the government should now find the drivers that can do the job here, and find the consensus that we cannot quite begin to catch up. It goes without saying that we will probably never get rid of this trouble without a vaccine, but we will not actually put that ridiculous pressure on the mental side and thereby get a problem that is possibly greater than a pandemic in the way of all sorts of bankruptcy and other subsequent battles later. Once again, this government proposal really does not take account of these regional cases at all, that is to say, we are still about to put people in one basket and that is good. In fact, we should now find those ass-raft drivers who could actually put these things in such a way that we would not have to catch up with all the places. At this rate, we really have that point ahead of us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u155	Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u156	Mr President! I understand that with these laws the government wants to have the power to use more robust or very robust measures without everyone having to import separately through Parliament. What is the problem here is that at least I no longer have the confidence that the government will be able to target these restrictions in a sensible way. As a nurse, I understand the way the virus moves, and I understand the risk of it with these transformation viruses, but when we go into these restrictive measures, I think we should also take into account the other side, that is, the work and business sector. It cannot be that people are taken away from jobs, people are taken away from livelihoods, people are deprived of leisure opportunities. The whole life will be shattered, all the savings will be blown away and away, the mental health problems will grow. That too is a big risk to our social system and to our social peace. In other words, these restrictive measures should be able to be decided in a proportionate manner. We all hope for it here and we have talked about it: proportionately and only in the areas where it is necessary. The fact that the whole of Finland is being struck down, if a symbol is used, I would say that the government is hitting a fly walking on a glass table with a sledgehammer. What's the result? Well, there's no way a fly is gonna die. It'll fly, but I'm sure the glass table will break. In other words, in this law too, I would like the authorities to really understand the other side of this issue. In the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we have read these government proposals to the Act on communicable diseases and tried to get the understandable message that what we want and that it would be as difficult to understand as possible, because it has now been discovered that these texts are interpreted differently by the various authorities. It has been seen, and that is what Finnish society is now suffering from. Indeed, I would like to see some sense taken at the level of the authorities there, and indeed very regionally and with very specific measures, that this virus should be restricted without our society as a whole suffering disproportionately from this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u157	Congressman Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u158	Mr President! Very good palm Sundays for you and all colleagues who are here in Parliament on a historic Sunday immediately after 1994! This is apparently the third time in 70 years that we are sitting on Sunday, and while it is still a palm Sunday, a significant holiday, there are many symbols here. There have always been big and urgent matters when a session is scheduled for Sunday. At first I may have misunderstood what Mr Juuso and Mr Laakso said — I am a simple person and I may understand something wrong — but we should be very careful about how we talk about this corona issue here in the Chamber. I would not compare this life-threatening infectious disease to road safety or to a fly on a glass table. Just last night, before going to bed, I read stories about people who died of corona virus in Finland, after those stories had been told in the afternoon newspapers by close relatives. And experts have described to us that during flu epidemics there will be far fewer hospitalisations than there will be during this disease. In other words, this is something quite different from a normal infectious disease — a very serious, terrible situation, and that is what needs to be done. Representative Savola said terribly well that we are between the tree and the bark. It is certainly the case that some of these measures may be a little too tough. It may be that better means would be found in a perfect world, but we only know in the world that physical contacts, human encounters, must be limited, especially meetings and encounters in private spaces. We also know from the experience of the world that countries that have taken tough restrictive measures quickly have survived better than countries that have then taken a more liberal line. Many Asian countries, New Zealand, many European countries have used hard means, and then we have experience in Trump's USA, we also have experience in our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Estonia, what happens if we react very softly. Then there has been a human crisis, and that economy has not been doing any better. Mr President! It is extremely important that we have compensation mechanisms for these companies that suffer from these restrictions. It has a significant impact on their acceptability. And at the next point in the order of business, we will also be discussing these issues. But, President-in-Office, the reason why I asked for the floor — and I will say it at the end — is that I would like to see us again here in Parliament finding agreement on these corona measures across government-opposition limits. It was wonderful and was very Finnish at the time last spring, a year ago, when we looked at the measures together, not perfect but effective measures to limit the disease, but now this consensus has broken down. And I do not know how fruitful this debate is that we are politicising these individual interest rate issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u159	Like this. — and Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u160	Mr President! Mr Kurvisinen has a good and important speech, but I would also like to remind the government parties that perhaps you should listen to the opposition's proposals at times, because there is both experience on this side and sensible proposals for solutions. After all, we are now again making new restrictions, and this means that we are forcing entrepreneurs to suspend their activities for the benefit of society and the public. This is good to remember when we say that we are between a tree and a bark. The decisions we make affect the everyday lives of entrepreneurs and their business. When Parliament suspends the activities of traders or certain sectors in an exceptional situation, we must also be supportive and fair when the bill for these restrictions falls to be paid. Mr President! In the committee's explanatory memorandum, the sub-heading ‘ Fair Compensation ’ has been set out in this case. I would like to ask when I know that Mr Kurvis has a legal background and that the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is also a lawyer from his education, how is such a matter interpreted? What, then, is the reasonable compensation? And will fairness and justice be met? ‘In its statement,the Council of State required that provisions be drawn up in order to compensate The text of the opinion of the committee,and I think it is time-documented:‘The Council of Staterequiresthatthe What, then, is the proper way? Who, then, will interpret what is the proper way? Mr President! In my opinion, the policies of the government parties here are too loosely documented, and that is why I am going to support the objections in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u161	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u162	Mr President! Good speeches have been made on both the government and the opposition, and I would like, for example, to raise Mr Räsänen's and Mr Östman's speeches on both compensation and proportionality to the fram, because, as the committee's report also states, this highlights the last point, that this is the last resort, and that is what the actors in the municipal and regional government offices will do. However, as has been demonstrated in the debate, there have been, for example, measures in gyms to prevent infection from spreading, and, as Mr Pirttila said very well, also examples of whether or not there have been any exposure at one of the gyms. We must also note in the report the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which states that ‘it is very difficult to regulate the law on communicable diseases and not to change very clearly the management of this proposal’. So here we are now giving the means to the toolbox, but much will then be left in the hands of the authorities that what the situation is. We do not know now — let us hope, of course, that the levels of infection will fall, and that assessment will be made there, but the toolbox must be as wide as possible so that we can react quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u163	And Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u164	Thank you, Mr President. This is how it is that both the opposition and the government keep the coal of cooperation still a little louder. I think Mr Kurvinen has said well that the good unity that has prevailed in this Chamber has gone a little in the wrong direction on both sides, and I hope that this Sunday perhaps we will go back to important matters and we will reflect on this side. But when it comes to gymnasiums, I think it is important that we have the opportunity to do different kinds of blocking in places where there are social contacts, where physical distance is too close and there is a real risk of infection. But I hope that no such restrictions are needed, of course. I hope that these levels of infection will go down, and I hope that society will be opened up in a controlled and health-safe manner. But the case-by-case nature of these gymnasiums is important. We have different gyms. We have 1,000 square feet of cross-fit halls, and we have small sweatshops in the basements. They are very different, and that is why the authorities should also have the opportunity to take a case-by-case approach. And now that we have taken this regionalism at the regional level, it is true that, here too, we should be able to interpret that division even more finely. We alone have that Lapland, which has been mentioned a great deal here — one third of the area of this country. There are very long distances and even within the municipality there may be a distance of more than a hundred miles, if not even longer. In other words, it should be possible to see this division more finely, whether it is a division of municipalities or sub-regions, for example. And then time is also important to consider. As such, the fact that the gyms are closed is a very difficult matter not only for people and well-being but also for the entrepreneur and the company. But that limited time must be at the heart of it — and also this compensation, which, in my opinion, came to be a good point from the opposition. Its compensation, the compensation, must be such that it actually compensates for the time lost, so that the company does not, because it has been imposed by society, go bankrupt, because it is in the interests of society as a whole, that action will continue even after this situation. Once again, Mr President, I would like to stress the question of the authority. In my opinion, it is all the same that we have, on a case-by-case basis, on a regional basis, each municipality to think about this whole and to do nothing but what is necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u165	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u166	Mr President! It is regrettable that the management of the crisis and its measures have become politicised. Sometimes when you listen to the opposition, it sounds like the whole corona problem doesn't even exist, but again I understand that side. [Heckling] I thought it was extremely constructive of you. Mr Östman's statement that the decisions we take affect businesses and businesses and the reflection on what it is that is sufficient cost support, that is sufficient assistance for entrepreneurs. It is quite clear that these measures do not replace what this total loss of livelihood is, but perhaps this will be able to intervene and compensate at first sight in order to get out of this. However, we must remember here why these measures are being taken. Because we want out of this crisis. We want this pandemic situation to reach the level that these companies can continue to operate after as little time as possible. And if we don't do anything, then it just goes on and on and on and on. The result is that these losses are even longer in trouble than they are at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u167	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u168	Mr President! Mr Kurvinen did indeed wish for better parliamentary cooperation here, but I must say that it is a little confusing when, just in the previous paragraph, a very large number of representatives of the government parties were trying to make statements about what the opposition had become. Many rightly stressed that there was a desire to agree on this point. What happened when we voted? It would be nice to hear what Mr Kurvinen now thinks about this good cooperation, because really: if we work together, we work together, not by saying that this is how we work together. It's nothing more than taking into account what's going on. I will return to that example of road safety. It was just that whatever it is, whether it's a security issue or something, we'll have to think about it there and we'll have to think about it the same way. Of course we know that if we want to go ahead of security, then we have to shut down the whole country, nobody moves anywhere, and the army should be deployed. The reality is that we have to compromise and balance between its safety and insecurity, and that was just an example — no matter what I said, which is why I said that road safety is when we drop the speed on the motorway to 60, those accidents are reduced, but it doesn't make sense. This is what it's all about. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u169	All right. — and Mr Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u170	Mr. Speaker! Conversation and interaction are usually good. This is our representative. Even with the valley, we're getting closer and closer, and we understand each other better. I think that comparison with road safety was a little too radical an example, because yes, this is a special disease which is constantly changing its shape and becomes these variants. This is not a cold or such a normal life, whether I slip in the bathroom or what happens on the protégé, but I fully agree with Mr Laakso that, of course, the principle of proportionality in the fight against corona must also be included and the means must be considered. My own idea and, I dare say, the idea of the centre is, to a large extent, to limit life only to the extent necessary to control this disease. President! I note that these means, which we are discussing today, were discussed in the previous section on how to restrict the activities of restaurants and now, for example, restrict gym activities, are measures that have been taken elsewhere in the world. This is the way in which this has been fought, and there has been no better way for mankind to prevent the uncontrolled spread of this disease and the resulting loss of human health, the deaths of people and, consequently, the downward trend in the economy and all other human activities. These are very poor and repugnant means, but these are the means to control this disease as much as it can control it. President! I would like to say that, of course, cooperation requires both government and opposition. I also think that we government parties have a place to look in the mirror to see whether we have done enough of this cooperation. But let me say this, President, so that there is no false impression left to anyone who follows a sitting or the Minutes that the cooperation does not work so that the government suddenly votes in favour of a statement scratched by an opposition. [ Hulls on the right]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u171	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u172	Mr President! I can say to Mr Kurvise that these proposals are not being scratched. On the contrary, very often, for example, draft reports are read to us in committee night by night, and that means that the whole of the next night goes on reading the draft report and drawing up proposals. So you really don't scratch — maybe you scratch there. Sometimes it feels like it's getting tough. [AnttiKurvinen’s reply] But that's not all. Mr Savola, you mentioned that you feel that the opposition does not understand this corona in any way. I would like to remind you that I was the opposition, the representative of the People's Party who, in January 2020, asked the first written question about the corona, because then we did not understand where we were. And no matter how much more of that I asked questions about where we are going, on 31 January 1920 your Government Minister Krista Kiuru said that this situation does not require the government to react, it is not a political matter. Of course, from a posteriori point of view, many government representatives and ministers would certainly withdraw their words if they could and would say that we should have been wise from afar. Anyone who understands anything understood at the time when the corona virus epidemic began to rumble around the world that it is also in Finland. This protest, which is also being discussed here today, and which is accompanied by our good statements, begins with the words ‘The Group of the Constitutional Affairs Committee recognises the severity of the pandapandemic and the need to limit the spread of infection. “ Do you think this sentence is something we do not understand? We in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health have a strong social and health background here, and we know exactly where we are going. Scrupulous Finns do not make these presentations, and in that sense it is important that we respect each other’s actions and statements — there are very good statements here — although we do understand that it is difficult for the government to support the statements made by the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to a wider debate, but Mr Kurvinen, a one-minute response.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u177	And now back to the infectious disease law. — — — — Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u178	Mr President! I, too, would like to say that the opposition is involved in making these decisions, and I would like to raise, among other things, the question that, for example, the head...
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u183	Congressman Arhinmäki, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u187	Like this. — And on the list of speakers, Mr Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u188	Mr President! When comparing the measures taken to control corona pandemic with road safety measures, I would just like to point out that every road accident leading to death or injury is a tragedy but it is not contagious, the corona virus, on the other hand, is contagious. The blackest year of traffic deaths in Finland was 1972, when 1,152 people died on Finnish roads. Since then, a great deal has been done, speed limits, seat belts and many others. Most of these measures have been opposed as excessive restrictions on human freedoms. However, as a result of all this work, even though traffic volumes have increased, road deaths have decreased dramatically. They are now in it between 200 and 300 per year. And I am sure that every road safety measure that Parliament is discussing has received counter-arguments in this Chamber that this is unreasonable. With regard to Koronapandemia, it should be borne in mind that people infected with corona do not only get better or die, but a significant proportion of those affected have also suffered from so-called long covid — it is not yet quite known exactly how much, but a third of those affected have experienced long-term symptoms, and some of them are also affected by changes in their internal organs. Typical symptoms include nausea, fatigue, headache and muscle aches. When we take these measures to limit the presence of a corona pandemic, it is good to remember that we not only limit the number of deaths, but we also limit the number of people who suffer long-term life-threatening symptoms due to this corona infection.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u189	And Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u190	Mr President! I had to ask for the floor to speak again on the speech by Mr Kurvise, who said that these statements were ‘rapid’ from the opposition. I say to this that these statements made by the Assembly are well thought out. And as Mrs Juvonen has pointed out here, the reports come late in the evening and then they are done at night. This is demeaning, and it is not constructive to cooperate in this way to present it here. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that these statements by the Assembly have also been taken up as a joint statement by the committee, which is excellent that they were received there as a joint statement by the committee: ‘The Council of State requires that the preparation of a model of compensation for the closure of holdings in accordance with Article58g(l) of the Act on Diseases be accelerated by the Council of State in order to make good the financial losses suffered by economic operators. “ Thank you for understanding yourself that those losses must also be compensated for by these traders. I would then like to raise some of these points, such as statutory rehabilitation. In other words, people who are legally entitled to rehabilitation do so in many of these facilities. There are physiotherapists who give it to rehabilitation, and they cannot because these facilities will close if this is decided. In the same way, some primary schools, education, physical education, have taken advantage of private facilities. They can't use those facilities now. It is also legal, but it is in accordance with the Basic Education Act, but it will not be reflected in your position. So let's talk about the importance of children's rights and education, but it doesn't go this far. Similarly, citizens' overall health, well-being, both physical and mental well-being, is very important for the sustainability of the interest rate — this epidemic has been going on for over a year — so that the public really is able, as well as regionalism, to take note of it. These were our statements, which we drew attention to. If you think this is all bullshit, then that's your point of view. I would also like to say, Mr President, about what has been done in other countries. Other countries have taken measures that have been inspired, but this too is very selective. In other words, for example, this pre-test model for borders — most European countries require it, but Finland considers that it is not sufficient. For the rest of us, it seems to be. It is not enough on its own, but it is an important message, along with other measures. And another thing, mascara: Other countries around the world use it. It is still controversial in Finland, for a year, and now, as part of the mobility restriction, it has been introduced into one region. We should be prophylactic, predicting this for the whole country.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u191	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u192	Madam President! In this regard, Mr Kurvinen also called for cooperation on the part of the opposition, and I personally think that, during this year's pandemic, cooperation has worked very well. In fact, with an amazingly large consensus, difficult proposals have been passed, and the Christian Democratic Group of the European People's Party wishes to continue to cooperate constructively. There have been strict restrictive measures, and I am sure they will continue to be necessary, but these restrictions must also be those that citizens feel are reasonable, justified, effective and fair to the various populations. Interest rate restrictions will not work unless they are respected. That is why I very much agree with this very good speech, which was made by Mr Laiho above. With regard to this proposal, I regret to say that there are too many problems which are not perceived as appropriate. Yes, during this time it is important to encourage citizens to move, and with over-sized restrictions it is not necessary to close down sports facilities where a small group of coronas are able to organise physical activity in large areas. I'm also concerned about the children's swimming skills. It is also part of the curriculum that comprehensive school children are taught to swim, and even now, for example, swimming halls are no longer available, even though these same primary school pupils are otherwise in contact with each other. I fear that this will even be seen as drowning deaths in the future if children do not learn to swim. Mr President! There has been a lot of discussion here about this vaccination order, and it must be very clear here too that no decisions are being made which are perceived as unfair or discriminatory in some groups. For example, we have areas such as Kanta-Häme and Päijät-Häme, which are in the process of spreading and where it would be important to have a quick vaccination, for example, at the age of 60, especially men who are at high risk of these serious forms of disease, before going to a particular region, such as Helsinki, to place emphasis on these vaccinations. So all citizens will be
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u193	In the course of the debate, a proposal for rejection and thirteen proposals for statements have been tabled, so we must put the matter to the vote. The votes will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and the proceedings shall be adjourned and the session shall resume at 4.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u194	The sitting adjourned at 4:04 p.m. and the 4th item on the agenda are now resumed. In the debate, Minna Reijonen, supported by Arja Juvonen, has proposed that the bill be rejected. In addition, with the support of Minna Reijonen Arja Juvonen, seven statements under protest 1 and six statements under protest 2 supported by Mia Laiho Kari Tolvanen have been tabled in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u195	The motion for rejection shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u196	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u197	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u198	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 6/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Mr Vartiainen, presentation of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u199	Thank you, Mr President. This regulation will be a follow-up to these previous pandemic support measures, which have facilitated the situation of businesses. One of the key instruments is cost support for companies, the third round of applications now being made possible by this regulation. But this same report has been combined with another government proposal, 37, which in a timely manner was adopted as a separate supplementary proposal, and it concerns provisions to compensate companies for the possible closure of premises associated with this pandemic. We all know why such regulations are being adopted. The conditions under which companies operate have deteriorated sharply, and this crisis has unfortunately been going on for some time. Although we can be fairly certain that the crisis will pass, yet, if there are large-scale bankruptcies and there is a lot of unemployment, some of such losses will always be long-term or, in the worst case, permanent, especially if there is widespread destruction of capital which is difficult to compensate for. Here, when the crisis is prolonged, the nature of such support and also the principles of reasoning for considering it will change. Of course, when the crisis, or this epidemic, suddenly struck, it was natural to think of such support as a kind of insurance allowance for something no one could expect. But now that the crisis has been prolonged, of course, companies have already had some opportunities to adapt to this situation and perhaps also to create expectations of how the crisis will develop and government will support them. And, in expert consultations, experts and economists continue to stress that aid is justified but must be avoided creating support schemes that would have a prior effect on the behaviour of companies in a way that we do not want. Well, as I said, there are two different types of support in this report. We have such general cost support and then the special compensation for the closure of premises. This general cost support is therefore retroactive, and it is precisely to ensure that companies do not behave in such a way as to optimize the aid in order to obtain it. Otherwise, the basic idea of this support is similar to that of the previous round of applications, Mr President. However, many improvements have been made on the basis of what has been learned from previous months of support. And in that sense, this has good arguments similar to those of the previous aid schemes. On these principles, the committee has learned a lot from experts and discussed them. And while there are divergent objections, there has been some agreement on these principles, even though there is disagreement on the parameters of support, as reflected in these objections. Some of the other parameters have been discussed with experts, such as the ceiling for this aid, the EUR 1 million per enterprise and per aid period, but in principle this basic idea has been welcomed. To date, recognition has also been given in particular for the resourcefulness and flexibility of the State Treasury in this respect. In other words, Finnish society has worked quite well. Well, then, separately here is this closure fee. It is limited to the period during which the premises are closed, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also called for compensation to be paid for this. Perhaps it could be said here that now that we have really wanted this common vision across the party and opposition-government boundaries, that together we actually decided to change the government's proposal in so far as this closure fee in the original proposal was limited to a closure that would last 15 days or longer, i.e. the closures of less than 14 days would have been excluded. Such a border has been removed in a joint debate and has also been discussed with the ministries. There is also reason here that if we close for a shorter period, then the closing authority will also have to assess these public and economic costs and costs for businesses. And you can really see from page 13 of this report if you want to see that this restriction has been removed for at least 15 days. That is the essence of this report, Mr President. I am sure that there will also be differences of opinion here, but I would like to stress again that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has discussed these fundamental principles constructively and unanimously. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u200	Next, Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u201	Mr President! With the increasing closure decisions that restrict business activity, it must be clear to us that the budget for subsidies to businesses must also be increased at the same rate. That is why it is important that we now have three of this cost support here in the debate. Earlier in the day, I asked what was the appropriate level and the right way to replace the suffering companies: where is the limit of solidarity? In previous cost support packages, one of the criteria for receiving the aid has been a 30% reduction in turnover. This percentage has now been changed to 20%, and this is a clear improvement, but if, for example, turnover has fallen by only 19% — only — then the entrepreneur will not receive aid for that month. As a former entrepreneur, I can say that the turnover bill of its size is a drastic 19% drop. [Hurry between seasons]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u202	Congressman Vallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u203	Madam President! In the context of the debate on the EU Recovery Package on 16 February, Prime Minister Sanna Marin said that Finland should send billions of euros to support the economies and businesses of the Mediterranean countries, because Finland is such a prosperous country. On 23 March, Mr Vanhanen, Minister for Finance, said that we cannot support our own businesses as much as the other Nordic countries, because we are not such a wealthy country. What the hell is this? This gives the impression that Finland is a prosperous country when it comes to supporting Mediterranean countries, but then Finland is a poor country when it comes to supporting our own businesses in Finland. Mr President! Today we are dealing with company cost support number 3. This package therefore supports companies operating in Finland who have suffered particularly badly from the interest rate. The two previous cost subsidies were discussed in June and October last year. This cost support number 3 is clearly better than the two previous ones, where thousands of companies were excluded from the aid, because the Marin government had set false and unfair criteria for obtaining the aid. I do not know whether it was done intentionally or unintentionally, that a large proportion of micro-enterprises and self-employed people in particular were coldly excluded from the subsidies. Perhaps the former bourgeois, the modern Green Left — the centremen — can respond to this. In fact, Minister Lintilä tried to answer this at the beginning of the week that it was because of inexperience. My question to the government is: why do you do these laws if you cannot, and why do you not listen to those who can? I'm looking at the center. You are the key to this cost support issue because the other parties in this Red-Green government of Sanna Marin are not particularly interested in the fate of Finnish entrepreneurs. The Social Democrats and the Left have not been known to be interested in promoting entrepreneurship in this country. Their interest in entrepreneurship has mainly been related to taxation, how they could push their hands deeper into the pockets of entrepreneurs. The Greens, on the other hand, are so high in carbon dioxide that there is no time to think about anything else. Mr President! The government's apology for entrepreneurs would be appropriate at this point and immediately thereafter to remedy the situation by reopening cost subsidies 1 and 2 with new application criteria. If this is not done, it means that small entrepreneurs in this government do not really mean anything. I would like to remind you that 93% of Finnish companies are micro-enterprises. True Finns presented changes to cost support 1 and 2. We were not believed, but, fortunately, the government has now corrected its errors in this cost support for this third. Yet here too there are still things to say. Let me briefly list what should be corrected here — especially the ministers and parliamentarians in the centre, please listen carefully: Cost subsidies 1 and 2 should be re-applyed with new criteria. That would be fair. Cost support should be granted if turnover has fallen by 20 % — not by 30 %, as proposed by the government. The compensation rate should be 80% — not 70%, as proposed by the government. For the closure of premises, the replacement rate should be increased to 90%. This would be particularly important for restaurants, gyms and other companies designated for closure. The reference month for exclusion measures should be changed as it is February of this year, when it should be a more normal month for business, for example February 2020 or March 2019. Mr President! Finally, before any government ministers start criticising these proposals from the Finns, it should not be a matter of money that Finnish businesses and entrepreneurs are supported more generously and fairly. You, my dear government, are about to dump billions of euros to support companies in the countries of southern and eastern Europe if this Parliament adopts its absurd EU recovery package this spring. And you're always picking up more and more money on development aid. I recommend that in Parliament we reject that EU recovery package and use that money here in the country to support our own economy and our own businesses. With the amount of money, or EUR 6.6 billion, the impact of the interest rate on the Finnish economy would be very small if we use the amount of money intelligently here in Finland. Mr President! The amendments to the Rule of Objection will be tabled at the next reading then on Tuesday, will they not? [First Vice-President TarjaFilatov : You can do it now, or you can do it all, either way. [Vallin: Tuesday? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u206	Sorry, this sharing came out of nowhere, so I hadn't looked. — Mr Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u210	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u211	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee and to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for all the good work they have done. As the President-in-Office said, there are already several times when this exercise is being carried out, that we should apply for this model of cost support, which is intended to compensate companies for the losses caused by the interest rate. In other words, it has to be acknowledged that the interest rate hit pretty quickly last spring, and the first Business Finland subsidies intended for development measures were not quite suitable for income losses and that region, plus then these smaller companies were left out of it, which were then replaced with sole entrepreneur support, which was then distributed through municipalities. Thanks also to municipalities and economic activities for sharing that support. The changes to this cost support are precisely such that these small businesses, the sole entrepreneurs, will also be eligible for cost support, and this EUR 2000 compensation will also apply to them. And then, if the costs are below that, they will also receive the compensation of EUR 2000. This is an excellent reform. And then, if the net sales of sole proprietors are down even more, they can still be on the road. Another major correction is that the changes to the maximum aid ceiling will be increased to EUR 1 million per company, compared with EUR 500000 in the past, and the total amount will also be increased to EUR 1.8 million at EU level, compared with EUR 800000 earlier, i.e. on the basis of a Commission decision. So there are many improvements here. This also involves the company's employer's side costs, which can then still be included in percentages. There is also the so-called 'block subsidy'. When the closing of restaurants and sports facilities was defined earlier in the day, there will also be compensation. I think that this is an excellent thing that the committee has done, that the 15-day so-called 'hardness time' should be removed from it. Also, if the lock is shorter, this will be replaced. Finding a reasonable level of compensation, as set out by the Constitutional Committee and as previously stated by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy: At the moment, in this proposal, which I think is quite justified, wages will be paid in full, but other costs will be paid with 70% compensation. So it is with great joy that I welcome the fact that, as legislation has just been adopted, we will now have this supporting compensation element for these enclosed holdings in this paper. I thank the committee. I think this is a good performance. Of course, I'm sure there's still room for repair. I hope we do not have to make a four, but it seems bad that we are still rubbing the next reforms in the fourth package. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u212	Congressman Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u213	Madam President! We are gradually coming to the conclusion of this historic plenary session of palm tree Sundays. At this stage, a very good Easter for all colleagues regardless of the party and government—position limits! I am sure that everyone has had quite a tight and hard time for a few months in this spring session, and this corona will of course add to the burden of living in a kind of exceptional circumstances, even in exceptional circumstances on a daily basis, not only legally, when we always have to think about how I am going to work during the week. That's a little extra pressure. I hope everyone can breathe a little. But, Mr President, at first reading, this is the last issue of this Sunday's plenary session, the way in which the corona crisis helps and supports businesses that are heavily affected. Interest is not just a health crisis, it is a cultural and social crisis, and it is also a strong economic crisis for the economy as well as for our public finances, the local and state finances. And now we are dealing with the continuation of cost support. However, cost support may have been the most logical and acceptable form of aid for companies that have been helped in the midst of this corona crisis. It has been such a form of support, based on the company’s financial statements, which has been paid by the State Treasury for very fast processing. There are very different experiences of cost support for companies. There have been many disappointments. It has been felt that these first stages of cost support — so-called cost support one and so-called cost support two — have not been fully adequate. As Mr Pirttilahti, Vice-President of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, said — I am correcting him, he is no longer a former Vice-President, but he has been an active member — we have at least tried to take account of these experiences in this third cost support. Thank you for this cost support because it has been quick to apply and the decisions have come quickly. This cost support 3 will improve, in particular, the focus on small enterprises and sole entrepreneurs, compared with previous cost support. The basic principles of cost support remain unchanged. The cost subsidy is intended for undertakings whose turnover has fallen by at least 30 % in the aid period 1 November 2020 to 28 February 2021 as compared to the corresponding period 2019 to 2020. It is proposed to end the aid period until the end of February, as the turnover data of companies will be available from February during April, so that the application will be launched during April 2021. In addition to the company's own turnover, the decrease in turnover in the company's industry would be assessed, as in previous application rounds. If the turnover of the industry has decreased by at least 10 % during the aid period, the company may apply for cost support without further justification if the other conditions of the aid are met. Furthermore, the State Treasury could also grant aid on a discretionary basis to companies that do not belong to a particular sector of activity. The grounds for discretion are specified in the explanatory memorandum of the Act and in the application instructions of the Treasury. And for this round of cost support, cost support for three, it is proposed to reserve EUR 380 million. What, then, President, is going to change in more detail the cost support in third place in relation to aid one and aid in favour of second? The status of enterprises will be improved so that, if the aid is less than EUR 2000, the company will still receive a cost subsidy of EUR 2000, i.e. no longer having such a threshold, a limit of EUR 2000, provided that the companies have at least EUR 2000 costs during the aid period and other conditions of the aid are met. This ceiling is also changed to EUR 1 million per company, compared with EUR 500000 per company in the past. As in the past and as in the case of State aid, aid already granted is taken into account in the amount of cost aid. Also, President-in-Office, with a separate proposal from the government, this cost support for three will be such additional aid to compensate small companies whose premises have been closed by law or by decision of the authorities — that is, these very facilities which are being closed now that this third wave of the corona is being treated in Finland. President! Let me conclude by saying that it is almost clear that we will see other cost subsidies, cost support 4 and so on, because now we are likely to have these restrictions on movement in southern Finland. And it is quite clear that no restrictions on movement can be imposed unless it compensates for the damage it will cause to businesses and businesses. Again, President, it is clear, however, that Finland will not rise by taking up debt and paying for various forms of business subsidies, cost subsidies or other subsidies, but we will rise by completing an exit plan on how to gradually get Finland out of these corona restrictions, and by getting economic growth and employment at the level of our analogue countries and the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u214	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u215	Mr President! We are now dealing with cost support 3 and closure aid, and cost support 3 is, after all, such a retrospectively paid system for November, December, January and February in this case and can be applied for as from April when this law enters into force on 23 June. This closure allowance, in turn, relates to undertakings with a maximum of 49 employees. As far as the larger companies are concerned, these will be a separate bill from the government, but it is currently being reviewed by EU regulation to see how it can work. Mr President! This cost support 3 has improved the previous cost support for one and two, and I personally at least consider the most important change in the way in which the smallest companies are treated here. After all, the main reason for refusing aid has been that the costs have not been sufficient, i.e. it has not been possible to grant the compensation of EUR 2000, but now there is a change in the way that, if, for example, the sole entrepreneur has at least EUR 2000, then the amount can be granted. The closure fee is then a separate matter, but it has been dealt with in the context of this proposal for a cost-support law and, as I said earlier today, I am very pleased that the government parties in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy took the proposal of the opposition parties seriously as to the period during which this closure allowance is paid. So it was in the original government proposal that it should start to be paid from the 15th day or be taken into account in such a way that if the business space is closed for at least 15 days, it may receive compensation for the entire past period, but if it is, for example, 13 or 14 days, then that compensation would not have been received. This has now been changed so that the compensation will come from the first day if the state’s closure has closed the business space. This is a very important step for these entrepreneurs, who are faced with a very precarious situation. For example, I am taking today a change in the section on the closure of gyms, from which there are messages from entrepreneurs today that when they have to close their own business space. This is a very difficult situation for entrepreneurs because they are unable to anticipate, for example, the number of staff they need for what day if communication is so unclear. Mr President! We in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy objected to this report by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, and it is an objection which is listed or printed here in the report as 2 and which we have tabled amendments to the paragraphs and one statement there. I shall first read this one statement which is here, and it reads: ‘The Parliament shall require that the government submit a proposal for an event guarantee to the Parliament shortly.’ Mr President! This statement is exactly the same statement as in the report of the Committee on Budgets on Amending Budget No 1 last week, i.e. it follows exactly the wish expressed on the side of the amending budget, because this requires, as these payments generally require, an amending budget, because it has not been noted or taken into account in the actual draft budget. But then, Mr President, these motions for amendment to the motion for a resolution of the Assembly are worded as follows: firstly, we have two amendments in Article 2, and the first is in paragraph 2. It is that the monthly turnover may fall by 20 per cent. In this actual government proposal it was 30%, and this is precisely the technical change that we wanted to make to our own motion when it was wrongly printed on this objection 2. In other words, the Coalition Party hopes that the company will be able to receive aid even if the turnover has fallen by 20 % rather than 30 %. Then, Mr President, the second amendment to paragraph 2 is paragraph 3, which is that we propose that the minimum amount of cost support should be EUR 1000 and not EUR 2000. The following amendment is contained in Article 5, and we propose that the grant of cost support for the aid period should not exceed EUR 1800000 per undertaking, compared with EUR 1000000 per company in the government proposal. And, Mr President, we know that the government has applied for authorisation from the EU to change this, because the regulations currently only allow a smaller number, and that is what the government has applied for, that is to say, if it is authorised. The next amendment is also in a later paragraph of the same paragraph, which states that the amount of aid is EUR 1000 and not EUR 2000, as stated in the Government's proposal, i.e. mainly for the small enterprises and sole proprietors. And then a final amendment to Article 5a, which states that 90 % of the costs and 70 % of the costs would be reimbursed by all the Unfortunately, Mr President, these motions for amendments to the article are somewhat confused, but they will then be specified at the meeting after Easter.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u216	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u217	Mr President! I am pleased that the government has reformed the cost support from the previous one. This third cost support is better suited to the needs of self-employed persons, the cultural sector and the tourism sector, among other things. In the past, cost support was more targeted at medium-sized and large enterprises. Through municipalities, separate support was distributed to good 47,000 self-employed persons. The conditions of the aid were not always met and the municipalities had to return the aid despite the applicants. This situation was regrettable even when seen by the City Board itself. Now, companies of all sizes will be included in the cost support. In practice, aid is now available if turnover has fallen by 30% and costs have been incurred by the beneficiary of the aid amounting to EUR 2000. The cost is already full, for example. From your own salary calculated by YEL minima. Of course, other conditions of support must be met. The cost subsidy is intended to cover the company’s costs that cannot be driven down in the event of interest. So it does not compensate for all the losses. More extensive support for the cultural sector and freelancers will be provided through grants from the OKM side, but there is still development to better take into account those who work in atypical employment relationships, self-employed persons, freelancers and shredders. The list of eligible costs based on the feedback of the event and tourism sector has been supplemented by typical costs for these sectors. The inclusion of sole entrepreneurs is also expected to benefit the event, culture and tourism sector. In addition, these sectors would be assisted through the event guarantee discussed in the context of the amending budget, hopefully soon, in order to help with the uncertainty of events in the summer. With regard to the event guarantee, as Mr Kauma has said here, there has been good cooperation with the opposition. This statement has already been adopted unanimously in the context of the amending budget. I think that this difficulty in allocating cost support to companies is a good illustration of the situation we have with regard to atypical employment and freelance workers. It concerns social security, pensions and tax practices. Basic income has been one of the long-term means desired by this group. It is great if we can promote these together in the future across the opposition-government borders. I would also like to say that a second statement was made in connection with the amending budget in relation to these and in support of the social security of cultural freelancers, which concerns this issue of copyright. Let us hope that this will go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u218	Congressman Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u219	Madam President! Very good palm Sundays for everyone, including me. Indeed, some improvements have been made to this third cost support compared to these previous cost support rounds. This has also improved the targeting of aid to small enterprises and self-employed people — I will highlight a few of these examples later. The changes that have been made are certainly welcome and thus an improvement to the past, although, of course, there are still many shortcomings. I'm sure this is still not the perfect support. Therefore, the basic principles of cost support remain unchanged, i.e. the aid will continue to compensate for the inflexible costs that run on the part of the company, even if the business cannot run normally as a result of these restrictions and the behaviour of people as a result of the disease situation. With regard to the changes that have been made, I would like to thank in particular for the improvement in the position of small businesses, where aid is below EUR 2000, the company will nevertheless receive EUR 2000 cost support, provided, of course, that the company has not only incurred at least the cost of this amount during the period of the aid, but also the other conditions of the aid are met. This is a very welcome change because, in previous rounds of aid, the most common reason for rejecting an application for aid has been precisely because the amount of aid to be paid was less than EUR 2000, leaving the company completely unaided. Another very important and fair change in this round of aid is the possibility for sole entrepreneurs to receive aid of more than EUR 2000 if the criteria, i.e. the fall in turnover and the costs of the aid period, justify this. In the case of the former self-employed aid, the amount was fixed irrespective of the size of the drop in the turnover of the sole self-employed person or the costs incurred during the aid period. The maximum amount of aid will also increase from EUR 500000 to EUR million per company, which is also an important change for companies that have experienced a significant collapse. In addition to these improvements, which I have just mentioned, a number of other changes and flexibility have also been made to the proposal which will improve the effectiveness and effectiveness of the aid. Mr President! I would like to thank the committee as a whole and you Members who are still here for the unanimous decision on the amendment to the paragraph, which proposes the abolition of the 15-day limit in the government's proposal, so that any shorter closures will also be covered. This is therefore linked to companies whose activities would be closed by law or by a related decision of the authorities. This amendment to the section proposed by the committee is important, and it is great that a unanimous view has been found. Mr President! There will no longer be representatives of the Finns of Peru, but at the beginning of this debate they spoke. I find it a little unusual that the proposals made by the representatives of the Finns on the overthrow of the EU's recovery package have been made. I am also referring here to the end of Mr Kurvise's speech, in which he said, in some ways, that Finland will not rise, nor will Finland's companies rise, but that the solution lies in more sustainable growth and its conditions. With that in mind too, and now I come back to these speeches by the Finns and the fall of the recovery package, it is very special, of course, for the stability and security of Europe, but especially in this context, when we talk about the survival of companies and their employees in the midst of this corona pandemic. We know that Finnish companies, Finland and us Finns are living in a strong destiny with the rest of Europe. For example, I come from Satakunta, an industrial region driven by exports, with a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises, including service companies, which, in turn, are in close contact with this export industry, and it is absolutely essential for them that Europe recovers and they receive orders from European countries again. That, of course, is what this EU recovery package is trying to do, and that is also the way to the survival of Finland and Finland. However, I shall not go any further than the recovery package in my speech, but I would like to say that these proposed changes to this cost support 3 and all of the government's proposals are welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u220	Congressman Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u221	Mr President! In this time of the corona crisis, the state has distributed a wide range of subsidies aimed at keeping companies up and people stuck to bread. It has been necessary and necessary. But it is honest to admit that it has not gone perfectly, of course. One problem that has been identified has been that subsidies have not taken account of self-employed workers and freelancers, and I am very pleased that this problem has now been tackled. Cost support as such is a very clear form of support, but it is not, unfortunately, appropriate for all sectors, and I am talking here of course about the cultural and event sector. Only a small proportion of the countless cultural players will be able to benefit from this new cost support. So there are still those who have to intervene, and since then we still need new solutions to ease the situation in the cultural and event sectors. The threshold for restricting the pursuit of a business is quite rightly high, and when the practice of a business is prohibited by law, it has been appropriate to pay separate compensation. The situation in the cultural sector is that these conditions are not directly prohibited by law, but by law-based decisions of the authorities, and that is why, in my interpretation, the payment of such separate compensation to the sector would require deviations from this basic line that the State compensates, not for loss of income, but only for costs. I think, however, that this would be fair. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs recently made a strong statement in this regard. According to the committee, the event and culture sector has been subject to particularly strong restrictions and the right to reasonable compensation should also be realised in this area. Mr President! I myself have spoken in favour of this for a long time and I hope that this strong position of the Constitutional Committee will be heard in the government. I think that cultural freelancers should be compensated for this long-standing mortgage. The industry itself has put forward the so-called Danish model, which, under certain conditions, compensates for verifiable losses to professional freelancers. I believe that this model will have an impact on competence and it should be used as a basis for the preparation of the next freelancer support package. The guarantee support for events mentioned here in the debate would also provide security and would allow the planning of events in the summer, despite the uncertainty of the disease situation. Some of the summer's events have already been canceled, and a lot of people are almost there. After all, the event guarantee is currently in preparation at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, and Parliament has also required it in its previous decisions. However, we cannot afford to wait very long. I also hope that it will be here in Parliament soon. Mr President! Many other solutions would be needed, but perhaps more so in another context. I am glad that this new cost support is being made. It will, however, significantly improve the situation of many companies and self-employed people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u222	Congressman Vartiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u223	Mr President! Obviously these amendments and statements will be made at the next reading, but, in the interests of certainty, I will give my support to these proposals made by Mr Kauma, and without further ado I wish you, Mr President, a very good Easter.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-03-28-ps-33.u224	I, too, wish this tenacious band a good Easter! The next plenary session of Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 6 April 2021, at 2 p.m. Of course, committees work in the middle. The plenary session was closed at 5.13 p.m.
