ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. The matter was put on the table today at the plenary session on 28 October 2021, to be held today at the second plenary session on 28 October 2021. The general discussion will continue. — Representative Turtiainen absent, representative Heinonen absent, representative Koskinen absent. — Representative Up the hill, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u2	Mr President! It would have been desirable for representatives of the government parties to be here to listen. This is an important issue. The Chairman of the Committee on Finance should have been present and also the Minister responsible. Mr President! Consumer prices in the European Union went up by 3.4 per cent in September. In the United States, inflation is already over 5%. High inflation has a negative impact on banks’ behaviour as it raises risks as to whether debtors can repay their debts. There are banks in the European Union which are already in a serious crisis. The fall of the worst crisis bank in Europe, the Italian Monte dei Pash, is near because the rescue efforts of the Italian state failed a few days ago. Mr President! The Government proposes that Finland participate in the modification of the ESM in such a way that ESM money can be allocated to Member States that spend the money to support crisis banks. The proposal prepares for the implementation of the Single Bank Resolution Fund from the European Stability Mechanism (ESM). Mr President! Finland is paying for it again. The ESM will have to raise additional funding from Member States to support banks. Finland has an open commitment of EUR 11 billion for the capitalisation of the ESM. The commitment is approved by Parliament. The ESM has provided financial support to Spain, Greece and Cyprus, but until now it has not been possible to earmark money to support banks. Accepting a government proposal in Parliament would make it possible. There is no estimate of how much crisis bank support would have to be provided. Mr President! Finland has guaranteed EUR 4 billion in charters for cruise ships. There is a high risk that these shipping companies will go bankrupt and Finland will be the guarantor of the guarantees. The shipyard guarantees, the EU recovery package and the ESM crisis bank support are examples of open bills that Finnish governments carelessly write in addition to all other indebtedness. In addition, interest on reckless debt will be paid, which will increase with inflation. The one percentage point increase in interest rates will increase the interest rates on public debt by nearly EUR 2 billion. What will happen to Finland when we have made various bills for other countries and, in addition, several billion dollars in interest payments? Mr President! Parliament should not accept the government's proposal to amend the European Stability Mechanism so that Finland's payments can be used to support crisis banks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u3	Thank you. — We have technical problems. For a moment now, this situation is being corrected. - All right. Congressman Koskinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u4	Mr President! This proposal 99 and the proposal 100 are interrelated in a material way. However, that government proposal 99 must be dealt with first when it creates the possibility for the stability mechanism to complement the resources of the resolution fund. This proposal concerns changes to the European Stability Mechanism in relation to the implementation of the Single Bank Resolution Fund (SRF) joint preparedness mechanism within the ESM. Other key changes relate to changes in the eligibility criteria for precautionary financial assistance as well as the assessment of debt sustainability and debt arrangement procedures. The proposal is closely linked to the Government's proposal number 100 for these Parliaments, which proposes that Parliament approve an agreement on the transfer of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund and amending the agreement on the pooling of funds. The proposals thus constitute a package that accelerates the development of the Banking Union and improves the ability of the ESM to respond in particular to the banking crisis. The ESM was originally born in response to the sovereign debt crisis, which is why its area of activity is, above all, limited to situations where a country would not receive funding from the market due to an exceptional situation. Support through the ESM has therefore been accompanied by a strong conditionality requirement, in which case the beneficiary country will have to commit itself to fiscal consolidation. As early as 2017, the European Commission proposed to strengthen the role of the ESM in financial crises other than sovereign debt crises. At the same time, it also called for clarification and simplification of the decision-making structure of the ESM. In line with the proposal, the ESM was to be reformed into a European Monetary Fund that would genuinely operate within EU structures and would also be able, if necessary, to carry through sovereign debt arrangements. However, this Commission proposal has not progressed. In addition, as the role of the European Central Bank in financing the euro countries has increased, the ESM is moving more clearly into the instrument needed to deal with possible banking crises. The changes now under discussion will also increase the ESM's ability to respond to bank crises, i.e. on the private side of banks. At the same time, the ESM will become part of the wider fiscal structure of the EU. The main purpose of these changes is to secure the financing of the bank resolution fund in a situation where the own funds of the bank-funded resolution fund are depleted or insufficient to implement the agreed actions. Therefore, a ‘backstop’ is set up within the ESM. The mechanism is based on the principle that the costs of resolution are primarily borne by bank owners and investors. Following the realisation of the investor responsibility, the current assets of the resolution fund amount to EUR 42 billion or some EUR 70 billion collected by the end of 23. Only when these funds have been used, i.e. in the third place, can the reserve system be used for the ESM. Under the amending agreement, the direct capitalisation instrument of banks will be removed from the financial support instrument. This reduces the risk of loss to Member States through the ESM. In addition, from the beginning of 22, euro area countries will introduce co-operation clauses. This means that a majority of creditors can more easily force a minority to accept debt restructuring, and this also significantly reduces the secondary and third-tier guarantee risks for governments and taxpayers. The amendment also specifies the conditions for support, as the ESM can only provide financial support in the future to those Member States whose debt is considered to be sustainable and whose ability to repay has been ensured. The debt sustainability assessment shall be carried out jointly by the Commission, the European Central Bank and the European Stability Mechanism, supported, where appropriate, by the International Monetary Fund. The Committee on Finance considers these amendments to be good and acceptable. They will strengthen the framework conditions for a banking union in a crisis situation and thus improve the management of the EU financial crises and contribute to preventing future crises. The creation of a Single Resolution Fund, a common system of preparedness, will enhance financial stability and enhance the credibility of resolution. It is also important to pay greater attention to the sustainability of the applicant's public debt in both the short and the long term and to improve the effectiveness of the precautionary financial assistance. The changes now proposed do not increase Finland's liabilities, as no changes are made to ESM's capital in this context. With regard to these responsibilities in Finland, the Constitutional Committee has assessed that the ESM's amending treaty does not include any new financial responsibilities for Finland which would violate Parliament's budgetary powers by jeopardising Finland's ability to meet its constitutional obligations. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has thus considered that the Treaty of amendment can be adopted by a simple majority and its law of enforcement should be dealt with in the order in which the ordinary law is adopted. In the same context, however, as usual, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention to the fact that Parliament must always be fully informed of Finland's cumulative overall liabilities and risks, and this is what has been done in connection with this proposal. The Committee stresses the importance of active monitoring of the risks associated with the banking sector. It is also important to invest in crisis prevention and to ensure consistency between banking legislation and supervisory practices across Europe and the effectiveness of financial supervision. Like the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Finance stresses that, as financial markets become integrated and solidarity deepens, the balance sheets of the banking sector must be largely equal in starting conditions and that differences in starting positions must be balanced by the Member States and the banks themselves. The committee also stresses the need to reduce the link between states and banks, which has been one of the key objectives of the Banking Union since it was set up. After all, the stress tests of larger banks have been carried out a couple of times in Europe, and in this situation it is of course difficult to assess how much credit that will not be organised in the future even in key banks, because this great supply of money through the European Central Bank and also other economic support measures in the context of the corona crisis may obscure the ability of the individual company to pay, its opening-up in these stress tests, and it is therefore important that this ongoing and intensive financial supervision, the monitoring of the situation of banks, be continued and, if necessary, then intervened. As a whole, the draft decision of the Committee on Finance is that Parliament, in its proposal, approves HE 99 for these Parliaments and that Parliament accepts the bill contained in the Government's proposal without amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u5	Thank you for the introduction. — Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u6	Mr President! In principle, increasing solidarity in the euro area is always a bad thing and should be combated. And now we have to ask ourselves, in particular, what is the rush to bring forward this solidarity of the banks. Above all, what is the point in the system that we have to guarantee the responsibilities of the banks that have done their business poorly in the south with the service charges and risk of our own banks, and why do we have to rush it? The Finns of Peru want to reject this whole proposal. That is what we will be presenting at second reading and, in particular, our proposals for statements are things that should in any case be implemented. Instead of drifting as driftwood, Finland should find out what benefits we have had in the euro area, whether it has even been harmful, and then we should find out how this overall responsibility has evolved for us, what Finland is responsible for overall. The Committee on Finance is supposed to have been briefed on this, but the report as a whole is not clear and covers the whole responsibility. So this is what we are calling for in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u7	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u8	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee, Mr Koskinen, for presenting the committee's report. I myself have been very critical of this whole and, as we remember, I also voted against it. And now that these stages of implementation are in progress, the situation is, of course, that we need to consider how sensible action is to be taken in these situations and what can be changed or what can be done about them. For example, Mr Essayah has pointed out that what is being achieved by this advance, which in the second, as a whole, is being achieved — two proposals here. Is it useful and reasonable, it is worth considering. But I personally feel that once the matter has been democratically adopted, then in a certain way we will be doing everything we can to make the most of this entity not only for the European Union but also for Finland. My question is this: there will now be more and more of these proposals, and yesterday we had a debate on Finland's position on these questions, which have now come to the table or come to the table. Does Finland no longer have its own EU policy, its own will in the EU? What is the position of Finland, the position of the Marin government, for example, on the reform of the rules of economic and monetary union? This is a very fundamental issue, and it is worrying that Prime Minister Marin has publicly stated that Finland does not have a position, but Finland, for example, is waiting for and making progress on this very fundamental issue of the European Union. This is a worrying development that we, as a country, are no longer trying to influence these issues in advance, but we are waiting for what will eventually become of the Gulf of Bothnia. The second question is, then, what kind of policy we are pursuing on these other issues that have now emerged — the climate fund and this type of thing — and I welcome the fact that today's Question Time, however, has brought out the government's orientations on this issue as well and the criticalness that Finland should not be adopting this type of package.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u9	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 27/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. General discussion. — Presentation, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u10	Mr President! After the parliamentary meetings had been held, I was very quick to present the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs to the Government's proposal 100/2021. Here's the committee's argument: The agreement relates to the early introduction of a single reserve arrangement under the European Stability Mechanism of the Single Resolution Fund of the EU Banking Union. The Treaty currently creates a path of gradual consolidation of fully national additional contributions to stability, up to the full consolidation of the Fund's pre-collection funds, which, in accordance with the agreement currently in force, are fully integrated at the end of the transitional period. In addition, temporary transfers between mutual fund shares will be subject to a change as a result of the previous change. The agreement amends the agreement between the transfer of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund and the pooling of contributions. It is a matter of solidarity between credit institutions and investment firms that are subject to payment and not the Member States that are party to the agreement and of bringing forward this solidarity. The explanatory memorandum to the Government's proposal refers to the fact that some of the provisions of the agreement may be indirectly linked to Parliament's budgetary authority, as they concern the transfer of additional ex post contributions to the Single Resolution Fund and their use. Additional fiscal contributions under the SRM shall be collected from credit institutions and investment firms and, in the event that they are not immediately available, the Board may ultimately rely on a common contingency arrangement established under the European Stability Mechanism. In some cases, the preparedness mechanism may lead to losses for the European Stability Mechanism. However, Finland’s maximum loss is limited to the capital contribution to be paid on demand for the capital structure of the ESM, which for Finland does not exceed EUR 11,14 billion, and which Finland has committed as a member of the ESM to pay in the event of a possible capital call. According to the Constitutional Committee, access to information and influence under Articles 96 and 97 of the Constitution must be adequately safeguarded. In the preparation of the proposed amendment to the agreement, the matter has been dealt with several times in Parliament as an EU matter. The SRF agreement now being amended has been adopted in Parliament by a simple majority with the involvement of the Constitutional Committee. The approval was considered to require the consent of Parliament, as the agreement contains provisions in the legislative field and affecting the budgetary authority of Parliament. The agreement now being proposed also requires the consent of Parliament. The agreement proposed for adoption by the Government is an international agreement adopted in accordance with Article 94 of the Constitution. the procedure laid down and the procedure laid The assessment is based on a proposal for the approval and entry into force of a final agreement. The assessment situation in the Constitutional Committee is therefore different from the procedure laid down in Articles 96 and 97 of the Constitution. According to Article 94 of the Constitution, Parliament approves state treaties and other international obligations which contain provisions falling within the scope of legislation or are otherwise of major importance or require the approval of Parliament for any other reason, according to the Constitution. The adoption of an international obligation shall be decided by a majority of votes. However, if the proposal to accept the obligation concerns a constitution or a change in the territory of the kingdom or a transfer of competence to the European Union, an international organisation or an international institution of significant importance for Finland's sovereignty, it shall be adopted by a decision which has been supported by at least two thirds of the votes cast. According to the Constitutional Committee, Parliament also gives its consent to the provision of reservations, explanations and declarations on treaty provisions which affect the content or scope of Finland's international obligations as compared to the Treaty itself. According to Article 95 of the Constitution, provisions falling within the scope of the State Treaty and other international obligations are to be enforced by law. The draft law on the enforcement of an international obligation is dealt with in the order in which the ordinary law is adopted. However, if the proposal concerns a constitution or a change in the territory of the kingdom or a transfer of competences of importance to the European Union, an international organisation or an international institution for Finland's sovereignty, Parliament shall accept it without leaving it with a decision which has been supported by at least two thirds of the votes cast. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has considered it important that Finland's budgetary sovereignty is protected as effectively as possible. According to the committee, Finland's financial responsibilities in safeguarding financial stability in Europe should be examined as a whole in constitutional assessments in order to determine the budgetary constraints of the Parliament resulting from them. This also raises the question of whether the responsibilities could jeopardise the ability of the Finnish State to meet its obligations under the Finnish Constitution. In assessing the significance of Finland’s overall exposures in this respect, the probability of risk being realised is central to the absolute amount of liabilities. In addition to the total number of responsibilities, the assessment of Parliament's budgetary constraints will be influenced by the way in which Parliament can influence the increase in Finland's responsibilities. According to the committee, sufficient investor responsibility is also important for the position of responsibility of the Finnish State. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it has been essential for the Constitution that the proposed amendments should not increase Finland's financial responsibility for the maximum amounts of the ESM agreement. Increasing the overall responsibilities of the ESM must continue to require the consent of Finland and the involvement of Parliament. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs draws attention to the fact that the impact assessment of the Government's proposal indicates that the impact and hence their assessment will be essentially influenced by the possible resolution of the contributions of the parties to the Constitutional Treaty. According to the Constitutional Committee, in addition to the investor liability that reduces the financial risk of public authorities, it has been essential that banks reduce and harmonise their levels of risk to the level required by the Single Banking Union. However, the impact assessment of the proposal does not consider whether the contractual amendment has an indirect impact on the final national security of resolution funding. Furthermore, there is no consolidated assessment of the situation of the reduction in banks' risks from the EU and Finland's point of view. On the other hand, the committee has drawn attention to the fact that, according to Article 5 of the Agreement, a decision by the parties on sufficient progress in reducing risks is a key condition for its application. In line with the above, the exposure is limited to the capital contribution of the ESM in the event of a call for capital. In the Committee's view, the last and indirect budgetary impact described in the Government's proposal does not, therefore, increase the risk of accountability in such a way as to have constitutional implications for budgetary sovereignty. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs draws the attention of the Government to the wider legal and economic entity to which the amendment now being discussed relates. In the Committee's view, particular attention should be paid to the general increase in Finland's financial risks in the EU context. These are the comments made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on this proposal. I felt it was important to bring them up, because there are indeed constitutionally strong points of view. As far as the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is concerned, I would also like to point out that in this report we say firstly that the European Banking Union was created to ensure that the banks in the region were stronger and better supervised. Harmonized regulation, joint supervision and the mechanism of responsibilities in crisis situations have been considered to be able to create economic cycles in Europe more effectively than could be achieved by national regulation alone. The institutions of the Banking Union already have joint banking supervision and a resolution system in place. [The President knocks ] Even if the regulatory framework for the resolution mechanism is complete in legal terms, the transitional period for the accumulation of its fund and the integration of its contributions would not end until the end of 2023 unless otherwise agreed. This fund has been subdivided into national components in such a way that the funds collected from banks in each Member State are: [The President knocks ] Objective level of the Fund
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u13	Thank you. — Representative Essayah absent. — Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u14	Mr President! I followed the rapporteur's proposal and looked into this proposal to the extent that it can really be that this same proposal has now been made three times and now this haste would finally be adopted on the third time. Is this the EU's view of democracy that the decision is being asked so many times until it becomes the right decision for the EU? In the opinion of the True Finns, this proposal must in principle be rejected. Solidarity causes moral hazard, that is, when you run your money and your economy recklessly, you can always count on someone else to pay the bill. It follows that neither the economy nor the money will continue to be properly managed, but we will take unnecessary risks and spend money in a way that, in our view, is not the right way to spend money. Unfortunately, we are in the same monetary union with such prodigals. Is it really the case that this matter has now been asked and ground three times by the Finnish Parliament and now we are finally in agreement?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u15	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. I'm opening a conversation. — Presentation, Mr Kopra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u16	Mr President! This bill concerns the repeal of Article 44 of the paternity law. We have discussed this issue several times in this Chamber recently. The problem is that Article 44 of the current paternity law prevent the best interests of the child from being realised in cases where it could be considered to be in the best interests of the child to correct the paternity. Today’s law allows a situation in which a person who can unquestionably prove that he is not the father of a child can be established against his will. After the expiry of the time limit, this court decision can in fact no longer be changed by an established father, even though genetic technology, for example, can unquestionably prove that a confirmed father is not the right father of a child. This bill seeks two improvements: firstly, the correction of erroneous paternity relationships and, secondly, the protection of family life. Non-biological paternity can be revealed at any time and therefore the two-year period for the abolition of paternity should be abolished. In addition to legal obligations, false fatherhood creates significant mental harm and suffering for the parties concerned. The Convention on the Rights of the Child states that the activities of public or private social care, courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies concerning children must primarily take into account the best interests of the child. The Committee on the Rights of the Child has already informed Finland before the entry into force of the current paternity law that the legislation does not make a comprehensive reference to the best interests of the child. There is now a chance to remedy this situation. The current paternity law states that the best way to achieve the child’s best interests is when the child’s legal father is the biological father. This is also the most favourable objective in common sense, although it is clear that it is not always possible for different reasons. The abolition of fatherhood may be positive in the best interests of the child, since the reversal of false fatherhood opens up the possibility of establishing the father of the child as his biological father. Article 44 of the current paternity law in practice prevents the correction of paternity after the child has reached the age of two. So this is a problem that must now be corrected. It's in the best interests of fathers and children. The pending government proposal for a parenting law does not put this in order in the right way. Mr President! This section of the paternity law should also be repealed in such a way that the amendment will also allow the correction of incorrect ids established between 2016 and 2020, i.e. the correction of ids after the entry into force of the current law. I am talking in detail about the law in force, although we know that there is a government proposal for a parenting law in the parliamentary process. My hope is that the Legal Affairs Committee and Parliament in their deliberations will take account of the spirit and ultimate purpose of this bill, for the above-mentioned section number will certainly otherwise change with the new law. I do not believe that the article currently in force meets the objectives set by the legislator in its preliminary work, but, on the contrary, goes against the interests of the child and the rights of the child. Thus, even in the general sense of law, the best way to satisfy a child’s best interests is to have a proper biological father as a legal father. An artificial time limit is not necessary for a case-by-case consideration of the child’s genuine interest, since the district court must deal with the action submitted to it, regardless of the date on which the paternity was corrected. In the preparation material of the existing paternity law, it has been said that the purpose of the law is to correct incorrect ills as early as possible, but pre-work does not advocate that false paternity should be maintained by the wrong person after the deadline has been reached. If, therefore, false fatherhood remains in force, the child will have to determine his or her own origin when he or she reaches the age of 18. I do not think that this is a situation that anyone thinks is desirable. The artificial time limit is incompatible with the fundamental principles of the Child Welfare Act. Article 44 of the Paternity Act At present, therefore, it is contrary to the purpose of the legislature when the district courts fail to deal with the actions and confirm the legal interests which do not involve biological or social fatherhood. It is known that some experts believe that paternity should not be changed after two years. This is justified by the best interests of the child. I disagree. A child can't be in the best interest of living a lie. If it is widely known that a father is not the right father, it is not in the interests of anyone, and especially of the child, that society and our laws force us to live a lie and pretend that the wrong person is the father of the child. When you don't have a father and you don't live in a family, it can't be right to force you to become a father. Misdemeanors are sentenced to child support payments, and when he dies, inheritances and other things go to a stranger. I ask: who thinks this is right? Mr President! By adopting this bill, Parliament would demonstrate that children's interests need to be better assessed in these cases and that they need to be corrected. As a result of this article in force and its strict interpretation, there are currently cases in our country that cause suffering to those involved. The abolition of the time limit strengthens the rights of all parties involved. I hope that Parliament will exercise its power and the wisdom that prevails here and will agree with the bill on the repeal of Article 44 of the paternity law or the incorporation of its spirit into the future parental law. Mr President! Finally, the majority of Parliament has signed this bill. I thank all the signatories, and I hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Parliament in its decision-making will take note of the will of the majority of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u17	Thank you for the introduction. — Representative Päivi Räsänen is absent — representative Ari Koponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u18	Mr President! This is one of the specialities of the legislation in force, which, in the sense of common sense, is quite incomprehensible. The primary objective of the reform of the previous paternity law was to safeguard the rights of the child. According to the law, the best way to do a child’s best is to have a biological father as a legal father. In my view, therefore, there is no valid reason why the time limit for bringing an action for the correction of paternity should apply. I understand that parenting disputes should be resolved as soon as possible after birth, but in some cases the abolition of paternity can be positive in the best interests of the child. If there is a dispute over parenting, it will not be corrected by forceful legislation or wrong judgments, at least in the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u19	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u20	Mr President! Thank you very much, Mr Kopra, for this bill. You're on the side of the kids and you're on the side of the fathers, and that's a good thing. Mr Kopra has done a great deal of work on this. We have had this case in public Marko, which of course has touched quite a few of us fathers, and I think quite a few children would be affected if the children of this story understood. In time we had the case of Mikael Jämsänen, who appeared under his name in public. That situation could be corrected, but not retrospectively. There the father was left without his own child, and hopefully that law will now prevent these similar cases in the future. I think that we should be able to correct the mistakes at any time when there is doubt or reason for them. It is not up to any deadline, and it is never in the best interests of the child to live in a lie, as Mr Kopra pointed out in his own presentation. These issues have received broad support in this Parliament, with the support of more than one hundred Members of Parliament now having this bill, but also many times. I have not heard any of the Members of Parliament say that I am not in favour of this injustice being rectified, and now I appeal to the Sanna Marin Government to take this matter through with a swift, determined approach. If it requires the Ministry to prepare for legislation, Parliament must, with the examination of this bill, require the Government and the Ministry to do so and so ensure that we can make this correction and be on the side of children and fathers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u21	Thank you. — Mr Heikkinen, Ms Hannakaisa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u22	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kopra, for presenting this bill and, above all, for taking a thorough look at it and taking action. I belong to the majority of Parliament that has signed this bill. This two-year period for the correction of paternity feels wonderful today, probably at all times wonderful, but this is the time when we feel that we have every chance of correcting the absurdities and thus thinking with a rural heart of things that are clearly contrary to the father of the child and also to the sense of justice of mothers, healthy parents and healthy people. I would like to ask Mr Kopra, when we have the opportunity to discuss this issue, that when you are familiar with this issue, what arguments have you heard that why this two-year deadline is? And another thing, because I sincerely hope that we will achieve a positive, desirable outcome here and that this will be corrected, have you heard the views on the direction of the ministry, the minister, that there are obstacles to this, or that this issue can be resolved? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u23	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u24	Mr President! This proposal by Mr Kopra is a good one, and I myself have signed it. Unavoidably, this occurred to me when the government made a presentation on the dissolution of the forced marriage. In my opinion, forced fatherhood is a much greater violation of human rights than forced marriage. However, this is in the interests of both the child and the father. Under no circumstances — as in the present case, which is now the case with Marko — can it be in the best interests of the child to have someone forced to become a father, even though it is known that he is not a father, and Finnish legislation does not have the opportunity to dismantle this fatherhood. This is quite incomprehensible that for years the maintenance obligation will be paid to a child who is not biologically own, and the final conclusion will be that he is still inheriting this Marko on the basis of Finnish legislation. Yes, legislation must be fair. It cannot be that this is caught up in one of the two-year deadlines for the abolition of paternity. This is wrong. What is neither right nor fair cannot be a law. This initiative taken by Mr Kopra must be driven through so that we can get rid of the problems leading to this kind of compulsion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u25	Thank you. — Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u26	Mr President! I would also like to thank Mr Kopra for taking this initiative and for putting this issue on hold. I would also be interested in the fact that, as I recall, this is not the first time that this is being discussed in this Chamber, and I am sure there have been widely supported initiatives in the past, so what is it that these initiatives have not progressed in this Parliament since there is no question of this more wonderful matter or of a greater legislative amendment? Like Mrs Mäenpää, I would also appeal to this judge’s advice that what is not right or fair cannot be a law. I would like to know whether, in anyone's opinion, it is right and reasonable that the definition of paternity is in practice absolute after a two-year period and is specifically made by case law — that is, in theory, even now, I understand, it would be possible to deal with it in exceptional circumstances after the two-year period. And if I understand that the purpose of the legislator's wording in this article has originally been that, if such a situation arises, for example, it can be established with genetic certainty that a person designated as a father is not the father of a child, then in such a situation this paternity could be dismantled even under current law, why is this so that it cannot be dismantled? Why is it that even genetic certainty is not enough? How can the case-law be such that a case which is known to be untrue with certainty, in practice with certainty, will not be formalised before a court or its formalisation will result in all these family-law maintenance obligations and other matters ending up right of inheritance, that is, even after the death of this unjust person, this matter will have an effect on his heir, perhaps his rightful biological offspring. So why has this matter not yet been corrected in Parliament despite these initiatives, that is what I would like to hear.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u27	Thank you. — Mr Koponen, Mr Ari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u28	Mr President! I have to thank Mr Copra for this initiative: this initiative, signed by more than a hundred representatives, does not happen in the moment, but calls for an effort and work to get the names together. Yes, this kind of thing has certain kinds of bright spots here in Parliament, the fact that this kind of bill gets so extensive support and still across party boundaries.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u29	Thank you. — Mr Kopra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u30	Mr President! In particular, on this point, I would like to thank Mr Kopo for the substantial support and work he has done to move this bill forward with me, and if this could have been signed collectively by two of us, then the names of both of us on the basis of this initiative would certainly appear. Thank you, Mr Koponen, for this support — I appreciate it. In particular, I would like to thank the Members present for their encouraging contributions. I hope that this spirit, which is present in this debate, will then extend to the actual decision-making process and this initiative will be a success. On this point Mr Heikkinen asked how these experts would justify the fact that this two-year deadline should exist. I'm not fully aware of it either. So the argument is verbally that the best interests of the child require it, but why does the best interests of the child require that false paternity be maintained? So that further studies in this matter will probably have to be carried out, whether or not it will become clear. In my opinion, the truth is the only thing that can be sought on this issue and it is not in anyone's interest, not in the short or long term, that the legislative system and society contribute to the creation of a false situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u31	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Conversation. — Presentation, Mr False, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u32	Mr President! This bill provides for the amendment of Article 91b of the Medicines Act to give nurses a limited right to attend certain training events in which the content of the medicinal product is considered to be a medicinal product. This would facilitate and enhance practical medical work in health care services. The current interpretation of the law does not serve the interests of patients, patient safety, the ethics of treatment and the cooperation of health professionals. Although the nurse delivers the medicine directly to the patient, nurses have been limited in the current interpretation of the law to almost the consumer’s position, without taking into account the fact that a nurse’s work is no longer limited to a mere instruction on how to administer the medicine. According to the current legal interpretation, nurses are allowed only to provide instructions for the correct and safe use of prescription medicines. From the point of view of legislation, any further in-depth information on medicinal products, such as the reason for use, its mechanisms of action, interactions and possible side effects, is considered to be prohibited as a disguised marketing of the prescription product. Such a strict restriction leads to the fact that nurses in Finland are generally unable to attend any of the events where a single advertisement for prescription drugs is displayed. In this respect, the current pharmaceutical law as such narrows the possibility for a nurse to obtain current information in relation to her own work. According to the feedback received by the Nurses’ Association, nurses find medical training and access to medical information problematic. In particular, nurses in specialised areas feel that they do not receive enough information related to new medicines or indications. There are two reasons for this: the training of medicines organised by employers is limited, and the restrictions on the pharmaceutical market, not only on medicinal products but also on medical treatment, are limited to doctors. The legislation ignores the nurse’s expanded job description and various work roles. Nurses need in-depth knowledge and understanding of the mechanisms and effects of medicines for many reasons. They direct and advise the patient in medical treatment independently. The nurse should be able to respond to medical treatment even when the patient’s condition changes rapidly, for example in heart control and intensive care. Patients and customers are now very alert and informed, which is desirable in order to increase the patient's role and responsibility. Nurses are part of a multiprofessional team, and the demands for deep competence are constantly increasing in different areas of expertise. The independent role of a nurse as an expert and patient counselling provider is different today. Nurses have a lot of independent receptions and are responsible for monitoring long - term patients, for example. Patient guidance is an essential part of a nurse’s work. The prerequisites for safe medical treatment are that a nurse is familiar with the medicines she administers, their mechanisms of action and their compatibility with other medicines. The nurse must understand the possible side effects of the medicines and also react to the changes in the patient’s condition. Nurses are highly educated experts. The majority of nurses do not have the opportunity to influence the choice of use of the medicine, as this is already done by the prescriber of the medicine, the doctor. On the other hand, nurses have a great opportunity to influence the patient’s commitment to treatment and to strengthen the patient’s positive treatment through correct and timely information. In view of the current health resources, it is not necessary to restrict the expertise of a nurse by means of legislation, but to make use of the medical training provided by the pharmaceutical industry to increase the awareness of nurses about medicines. It is essential to take care of the up-to-date skills of health care professionals who are doing important work. There are no large number of Members of Parliament who are signatories to this initiative, but I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will raise this at the appropriate point and wonder whether this article could be changed for the better. — — — — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u33	Thank you for the introduction. — Mr Heikkinen, Ms Hannakaisa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u34	Mr President! Thank you, Mr False, for this bill and its presentation. Indeed, at the end of the day, you mentioned that there is no large number of signatories here. I didn't know you had this kind of thing going on either, and I'm sure I would have put a name on it, but it's still a very important subject, and I've never known that we have this kind of malpractice in the nursing field. It seems quite incredible in such times, when a few years ago, however, we gave the right to write prescriptions to nurses, so how can it be that nurses would be denied the right to take part in medical training? Is this the case that the independent examination of Pharmaca Fennica should be sufficient? But all the same, thank you for this bill. I hope that it will, however, be dealt with properly in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and that this is an omission that will be taken into account, because it is not in anyone's interest today to limit any possibility or right of access to medical training for nurses who are doing important work. From the point of view of patient safety, the opposite should already be the case. As a society, we should make it possible to have all the training where possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u35	Thank you. — Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u36	Mr President! I stayed for this debate on the referral to the bill to listen to what was really interesting when I did not know what we were talking about, and I must say it was worth staying. In many cases, these legal initiatives, which remain for a little quieter hours in the Chamber of Parliament, contain things that you would not know if you did not stay here to listen to — that is, I had never heard of nurses being affected by such a time of arbitrary and imaginative sounds, strange to the common sense, that they should not be present at such events. In whose interests would it be that nurses do not get all the information they can about the medicines that, however, need to be administered and used in their work for the benefit of patients. I do not understand why such an issue is in force and I hope that it will be changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u37	Thank you. — Representative Counterfeit, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-28-ps-127.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
