ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The decision will now be taken by the representative Riikka Purran et al. on the question of immigration policy and the economy. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 20 October 2021. The debate is conducted by Riikka Purra Ville Tavio, supported by Heikki Vestman Janne Sankelo and Sari Tanus Sari With the support of Mr Essayah, they have put forward proposals for a motion of censure to the Government. The proposals have been distributed to representatives on a multiplicity basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u2	The vote will take place first on Sari Tanus' proposal against the proposal by Heikki Vestman and then against the proposal by Riikka Purra. Finally, we will vote on whether the Government enjoys the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u3	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — I will open the debate. At the same time, I would ask that the House be silent about the debate and the other debates take place outside the Chamber. — — — — Congressman Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u4	Mr President! This is a government proposal to Parliament for a law on the transport system and roads. This is therefore the case for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the management of road infrastructure safety. This has in due course affected the TEN-T network, which is less than 5200 kilometres away, and now it is being extended to cover the Finnish road network a little more widely. The committee also pays good attention to the road safety strategy to improve safety and prevent road accidents. I cannot fail to raise the concern that, in addition to this network, we have a very large road network in the country, which is much wider in terms of kilometres, but it has a strong connection with these main networks, and the condition of these roads, Mr President, has only deteriorated this year. Their road safety, road safety, has not improved as the amount of asphalting was cut this year from over 4,000 kilometres last year to about 2500 kilometres this year. The 700 km of new debilitated asphalt road was created by the decision of the Marin government this year, and this does not, Mr President, take this development in the direction that this EU directive is aiming to achieve, in other words, to improve road safety. Then the whole thing is what we do on these roads if the Finns can't afford to drive on these roads. This week, Pentti Kuvaja thought of her 13-year-old car in Kallislahti, Teboil, Savonlinna: “We’ve got greens from here. “ That petrol cost EUR 1 95 cents, or nearly EUR 2. The operator of the distribution station stated: ‘But whatever happens in the countryside is an air van.’ Mr Marin's Government, ladies and gentlemen of the centre, these massive increases in fuel tax that you have made are now being recounted. So now they want to put the roads in order, at least on the part of the EU. The government's actions are different and, at the same time, moving along the road will be made very expensive by raising taxes on petrol and diesel.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u12	Thank you. — Representative Guzenina, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u13	Mr President! While here, in honor of Friday, emotions are getting hotter, it is important that we focus on this matter. This is, to the greatest extent, a question of road safety, and the way in which the Committee on Transport and Communications has said this and has specifically stressed this importance of road safety and the fact that we still have a lot of work to do on this issue in the country of Finland, is a matter of particular importance. After all, we in Finland are now preparing a transport safety strategy at the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which also emphasises the importance of taking pedestrians and cyclists into account when talking about transport safety. For example, in the capital region — let me give you a good example — there is a small section of the road between Espoo and Klaukkala that has been used by small schoolchildren and has been extremely unsafe for a long time. Now we have received funding from the state to build a fairway for light traffic. [PauliKiurui-TimoHeinosenkäyttö] These types of roads for small schoolchildren to travel daily are very serious dangers. That is why I would like us to have a common will here in this Chamber, too, and that, instead of making fun of one another and making fun of one another and making fun of these things, quite seriously, whatever party is in turn in government, these things would be pursued consistently. I am very surprised that Mr Heinonen has now started to make a mockery of the fact that this is something about Espoo not taking care of matters. When it comes to the state road, the funding of state roads comes from the state, and now I could ask why the coalition, having been in government through so many channels, has not paid attention to these state roads passing through Espoo. For example, there are places in the neighborhood of Velskola where you go from Kalajärvi to Vihti, on Vihtitie you can always find places where you are in danger. Now, at last, under this government, attention has been paid to this, but the construction of these things is not going to happen overnight.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u14	Thank you. — Representative Savola, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u15	Mr President! When Mr Heinonen so challenged, I will only say to him what is obvious, that I think there are quite a few governments that have raised the fuel tax in this country. In fact, do you now promise that, if you are a government party during the next term of government, you will radically reduce this tax? I'm sure we'll get an answer to that. But here's the thing: The main network and the main transport connections, to which this report refers, are very strongly involved in infrastructure projects and road networks between the capital region and the regions. Of course, it is absolutely essential that the connections between the capital region and the provinces work, they are in order, but it must not exclude what other connections we have in this country. And I would like to remind you of the importance of transversal connections in this country. I chair the development group of the Vaasa-Säinäjoki-Jyväskylä corridor, consisting of representatives of regional federations and stakeholders and municipalities in three provinces: Ostrobothnia, Southern Ostrobothnia and Central Finland. There are two different studies under way in this development group. There is a comprehensive study of the needs of the regional federations, and an appropriation has also been allocated to the Ely of Central Finland for the study of the bottlenecks between Alavude and Jyväskylä. These clarifications are now progressing in December. This transversal link is only a small entity on a large scale when we talk about Norwegian Trondheim connections to the Russian border, Trondheim-Uumaja-Vasa-Säinäjoki-Jyväskylä and so on until Eastern Finland. That is what we must remember, not only in our decisions, when new infrastructure projects are decided, but also in the overall studies and links. For example, EU money has been spent on this in a project over six years ago, the Midnordic Green Transport Corridor project, the Green Corridor project in Central Ostrobothnia. It provided answers specifically to the bottlenecks that need to be corrected, and they can be found there in the correction between Central Finland and Southern Ostrobothnia: Myllymäki—Multija also from the rautaosa section,someyears will have to necessarily be followed by electrification. These are long-term projects, and they are also linked to the fact that the main network also involves:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u16	Thank you. — Mr Junnila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u17	Mr President! Every representative here will certainly be able to name a large number of infrastructure projects for which funding is needed. Unfortunately, the resources are limited, and it is therefore good to remind you that you too are affected by a certain hierarchical nature. Above all, Parliament has generally been very passionate about international obligations. If anything has been demanded or even recommended about the European Union, we have been the first to implement it. However, this core TEN-T network is one of these. It should be in order by 2030, i.e. a uniform level of service in each Member State must be reached by 2030. This TEN-T core network corridor, in practice between Scandinavia and the Mediterranean, is extremely important, and when it comes to the various other connections, we really have to remember that we do not have the basics to deal with. This TEN-T core network is located, for example, on the E18 road, the four lanes of which have started at Kaarina in 2017, Kausela-Kirismäki, first and subsequently until the centre of Raisio. As has been said, even under EU obligations, these should be in good shape in 2030. While we still have quite a job to do to fulfil the obligations of the TEN-T core network, representatives in the Transport Section could also be active and on a map in this respect. It would be good to get funding for this either next year's budget or the amending budget so that this establishment of the E18 Turku ring road Raisio can be started. Unless this is initiated by 2023 at the latest, I doubt that this 2030 obligation will be fulfilled. This section of the TEN-T core corridor also has a very central link for freight transport in Finland. This is a good thing to remember when each of us is talking about other road projects, that we should not forget these very central and most important links.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u18	Thank you. — I note that we have about 10 minutes before the meeting of the large committee begins, and there are now five requests to speak. The meeting will then continue, and I do not know exactly when, after the big committee meeting. — Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u19	Mr President! I will not be long, but I cannot refrain from commenting on what Mrs Guzenina has said. In my own speech, I quoted Pentti Kuvaja, who told his 13-year-old car in Kallislahti Teboil in Savonlinna that we were ‘green-greening’ and on the case I borrowed a few other things, as MrGuzenina said to the government. These, Mr Guzenina, who unfortunately has already had to leave the sitting, are a source of concern. So these people are genuinely concerned that when a gallon of gas costs EUR 2 it is already close to the pain limit. This entrepreneur, by the way, also states in this news: ‘It is difficult to say which petrol trade has contributed more to the increase in interest rates. But it also matters if the tank used to be worth EUR 80 and the same cost now EUR 120. At least it has increased fuel theft.” This is what the fuel entrepreneur said in the news written by Launo Tähätie. It is a good thing that road safety is being invested and taken care of in our road network, but I wanted to expand this debate precisely because of what has been said in this last speech that we have a major network for the transport sector, but also those capillaries that are smaller than the roads of the state but also private roads, and they should also be able to take better care of their condition.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u20	Thank you. — Mr Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Representative Guzenina called for an explanation as to why the state did not invest money in these important transport projects in Espoo when the Coalition Party was in the government. I will try to answer this when I am sure I have been here then. Unlike the present government, when the coalition has been in the government, money has not grown in the tree. We have then had to set priorities and we have not been able to put more money into all the good intentions. Under the current government, the situation seems to be different because more debt can always be taken. Then we have had to prioritize expenditure on the well-being of citizens, basic services and many other issues, and we have not been able to put money into these important projects in Espoo as such. When the coalition has been in the government, it has always been known that if more resources are put into something, government money, it is away from somewhere else. At the moment, at least the Social Democrats in the government seem to think that, for example, EUR 80 million can be put in good places in itself, but fortunately it is not out of place anywhere else, and half of the Socialist Group believes that, for example, occupational pensions can be increased by around a billion a year and there is nothing to be done, at least not from future generations' pension entitlements or contributions. I wonder where this magical wall is, how much money is left and where this kind of thinking ultimately leads.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u22	Thank you. — Mr Koponen, Mr Ari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u23	Mr President! Industry in Finland runs on rubber wheels. Finland is more than 1000 kilometres from the main market and we cannot give any advantage to other countries on this issue, so the condition of the road is very important to us, and this must be invested in. The same applies to lower fuel prices.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u24	Thank you. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u25	Mr President! It's incredibly important to invest in the state of the road. If you look at these increases in fuel tax, they have been rather unfortunate. I wish they were canceled. And this climate issue: when you think about the climate, for example, when a Finn abandons his car and buys a newer and finer car, it is likely to live somewhere in Africa. The same climate is there in Africa, so a little moderation should always be in everything. On the Eastern Finland side, I regret that there has been some funding for these larger road projects, and cross traffic in Finland should also be there, because there are more roads to the south and north, but cross traffic does not play. Here I recently drove a car and noticed a truck that said it was going to take some domestic energy. That's all right, that's what warmed the mind that domestic energy is going. Well, it didn't warm my mind when I found out this truck was on the Russian record. It tells us that Finland's competitiveness has been compromised. When work and driving goes to that side of Russia, it doesn't look very good. Yes, it must also be taken into account in the road system that when you look at these, where there is a lot of traffic, there is a lot of traffic in Southern Finland, it is OK this way, but there is also big equipment in Eastern Finland. So let's just take it into account that there's a lot of big equipment in there? Of course it takes a good way to get to the big equipment too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u26	Thank you. — Mr Juuso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-22-ps-123.u27	Mr President! In Finland, the road infrastructure is on the verge of collapse. It has been spared, I don't know how many ten years in a row, and yes, those roads in Lapland and the tributaries are in quite shocking condition, including the highways. I would like to mention here what is also mentioned in the report, namely Highway 21, which goes from Tornio to Kilpisjärvi. There are narrow sections that are in very poor condition and winding, and the truck traffic that goes from there to Norway and back is huge, and much of these are foreign trucks. Every winter there are several trucks that fall off the road and block its road, there are no lanes, and then there are others waiting for many hours to get these trucks that have fallen away from blocking them. This is also extremely dangerous in view of the fact that if there is a need for sudden medical treatment, ambulances will not get there just like that. Here's some of these bottlenecks. There's a 50-mile stretch, which should definitely be fixed, but it's going to take a 70 million dollars to do it at least. Last spring, I went around East Lapland. East Lapland has 3,000 kilometers of gravel road, uncoated gravel road. Those gravel roads were so bad in the spring that they couldn't go, the kids couldn't go to school. One dairy farmer told me that the milk truck refused to pick up the milk from him because he was afraid of getting stuck in the way. After all, it's absolutely gross that our roads are in this condition. When I go to my own home in Tornio, there are hubcaps. I've been waiting 16 years for that road to be fixed. Nothing's happened, just a place to stay. I buy dust capsules like that four or two a year if I want to keep the car clean. This is quite shocking how this infrastructure has actually been saved in Finland, quite shameful. There should be some money for this. There's money for other things that I don't think are that important. - Thank you.
