ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which other specialised committees may deliver an opinion by 12 November 2021. Following a ten-minute presentation by the Minister for the Interior, Maria Ohio, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall begin with a maximum of 5 minutes. Other pre-reserved speeches shall also be for a maximum of 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, the President may, if he so wishes, issue replies in the order in which he is considering it, either for one minute or for two minutes. A maximum of 2.5 hours will be reserved for the referral debate at this first stage. - And now, Minister Ohio, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The report and Parliament's decision on it are a long-term orientation of Finland's internal security policy. This is the second internal security report in order to establish the role of the internal security report alongside the foreign and security policy report and the defence report discussed last week in the big room. The reports mainly deal with the same phenomena, since internal and external security have a strong interdependence. This has become quite obvious, for example, during the corona crisis, which has been a public health crisis above all, but which has extended to practically all aspects of society and life, and also to internal security. In this context, I would like to thank the parliamentary monitoring group that took part in the work. Although the report itself is a Government report, it is important that we have a broader debate on the situation of internal security among parliamentary groups. The work to develop Finland’s internal security is long-term, and it does not belong to this government alone. Mr President! Finland’s internal security policy must be based on prevention. It makes sense both economically and from the point of view of human well-being. Now, at the starting point, Finland is the safest country in the world. The goal is that in 2030 Finland will continue to be the safest country in the world. In addition, the aim is to ensure the development of security so that Finland will be a safer country for all people and groups of people in the future, i.e. to reduce inequalities between people in security. The background to the report shows that safety problems are strongly accumulated among different groups of people. Let's talk about the so-called accumulation of indiscretions. Education is strongly linked to employment and livelihood and indirectly also to health well-being, for example. Based on the statistics, a Espoo-based engineer is likely to live 12 years longer than a low-income, low-skilled man in Kajaani. Similarly, crime and accidents do not divide evenly among the entire population, but a small number of people are affected by a large proportion of accidents and crimes. Similarly, the perpetrators of the crimes have been subjected to an accumulation of incompetence. This is a development that we have identified in the report, and this development must be cut short for us by our decision-makers. Last week we discussed gang crime here during Question Time. Organised crime needs good recruitment ground to grow, and we are best fighting it by strengthening social inclusion. Similarly, combating trafficking in human beings or paperlessness prevents the creation of a shadow society and thus helps to keep Finland the safest country in the world. Mr President! I would like to highlight some picks from the report which, in my opinion, deserve particular attention from Parliament. Firstly, the report states that the safety of the work of the authorities is ensured. This means equipment, training and working methods, but also maintaining and strengthening the trust enjoyed by the authorities. Trust must be strengthened, particularly for those groups of people whose confidence in the authorities is now weakest. This builds up social peace and cohesion, which is important for both internal and external security. The second point I would like to raise in the report is the gender aspect of safety. Most accidents and accidents happen to men. Similarly, the majority of offenders are men. On the other hand, violence against women in close relationships is more common in Finland than in Europe in general. Alcoholics have also discussed worthy representatives on a regular basis. The report, along with its background data, will give you cover to the concern you've raised. More than 60 per cent of those involved in homicides are problem users of either alcohol or other drugs. Eighty percent of homicides have been related to alcohol. Preventing the harm of intoxicants and access to treatment is of great importance to Finland’s internal security. These, like other underlying factors, need to be identified in order to ensure that prevention measures are effective. Mr President! The overall picture of internal security is not just about crime and exclusion. Finland controls the longest external border of the European Union. For that purpose, the Government has allocated funding to the Border Guard during its period, for example, for the renewal of the control of the technical land border and for major investments in equipment. Immigration policy promotes Finland’s vitality and implements international obligations. Smooth immigration services respond to the needs of society and customers. In the debate on immigration, it is good to remember that more than 90% of migration to Finland is of work, family and study origin. Immigration is not in itself an issue of internal security, but the report also states that irregular migration can lead to instability within and between states. The Emergency Response Centre Agency receives approximately 3 million calls each year, of which it relays some 1.4 million missions to the authorities. In most cases, the tasks are located where there are also most people. However, we must also ensure the safety and services of sparsely populated areas. In this work, for example, contract fires and cooperation between the authorities are of fundamental importance, as we have seen in connection with the large fire in Kalajoki. Some 60% of the tasks provided by emergency centres are emergency services. This, too, reflects the fact that internal security is not only a task for internal security authorities, but also, as statistics show, to a very large extent a task for health professionals. Mr President! In addition to everyday security issues, such as falls, slips and other accidents or crimes, internal security is a preparation for major security threats. Nature depletion and climate change affect food supply and thus security of supply. Storms, floods and fires in the world have already shown what threats we must be prepared for here in Finland. Hybrid influence challenges our media literacy and our ability to recognize the efforts to influence. There are strong differences in the social debate, but hate - feeding and inhuman speech are not an expression of dissension. Social media algorithms stimulate confrontation and polarisation, which even state actors seek to exploit in order to undermine social cohesion. Technological developments bring enormous potential, but these opportunities must be exploited without exposing society to cybercrime and attacks. In addition, technological development must not lead to an increase in inequality when basic services run away to service portals and customer work are applied for productivity through automation and digitalisation. Mr President! The report identifies the resource needs of public authorities at the 2030 level as required by Parliament. Funding in accordance with the needs cannot be fully achieved in the coming years due to the sustainability challenges and spending limits of central government finances. The same is true in practice in all areas of central government finances. The Government supports resource development in line with needs and funding of internal security services within the limits of the central government finances. However, some of the objectives of the report can be achieved without additional resources. These include policy issues in particular. When it comes to financing, it should be noted that employment, education, well-being and the health of the population reduce various safety problems, thus reducing the need for services. Government decisions to invest in these areas are therefore also investments in internal security. Increasing preventive work and the use of technology contribute to curbing the upward pressure on costs, although, on the other hand, it also requires investment in itself. Finally, I would like to summarise and emphasise that social nausea, exclusion and the accumulation of problems are still one of the greatest threats to Finland's internal security. Improving safety is therefore increasingly linked to improving the situation of the most vulnerable and vulnerable people. Particular attention needs to be paid to the prevention of overgenerational exclusion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u3	Thank you. — And now to group speeches. — — — — Congressman Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u4	Mr President! The situation picture of our country's security situation in the Internal Security Report shows that Finland is a safe country for the vast majority of people. Finnish society is based on national security, mutual trust and strong democracy. At the heart of safety is that these fundamental values of society can be upheld. A cohesive and functional society has also been vaccinated against new security threats. The amount of crime has been falling in Finland for 30 years. However, there are many challenges. Serious crime is concentrated in a relatively small number of actors. However, it is particularly noteworthy that exclusion increases the risk not only of committing crime but also of becoming a victim. Intoxicants play a key role in all crime, especially in violent crime, such as homicides, where 80% of alcohol is involved in the picture. Organized crime is taking on increasingly severe forms. According to police experience, the number of weapons coming up against us is much higher than before. In the past, where there has been a blade in the journey, a gun is now being carried more and more often. We must react strongly to this development if we are to be able to ensure the safety of our police officers as well. Both sides of this hall have had the desire to turn the number of police officers into growth. This is an important issue. Social Democrats attach importance to ensuring long-term funding to increase the number of police officers [Arto Satose’s interlude] While we need to take care of soft security measures — the quality and availability of welfare services and the security networks of society — we need to safeguard the capacity of the social authorities against violent extremism, terrorism and other exceptionally severe security threats. Hard and soft always go side by side. [Leena Sea interlude] Mr President! The violent acts of violence committed by young people are just the tip of the iceberg from the nausea of young people. Crime, trauma and abuse in childhood and youth, such as domestic violence or bullying, increase the risk of committing crimes and becoming a victim even in adulthood. Nor can we underestimate the impact of the corona crisis on children and young people. That is why at the heart of this forward-looking report is how we can support children and young people. Problem chains need to be broken up at an early stage. For example, Ankkuri activities offer support and guidance to young people and their families by a multiprofessional team as early as possible. Mr President! At the heart of the Internal Security Report is the question of the adequacy of the resources of the authorities, be it rescue services, emergency centre work, border control or administrative work related to the management of immigration. The adequacy of resources has been a cross-cutting challenge in the whole field of internal security even before the present government term. The corona crisis is also an indication of how these internal security authorities are often on the frontline in the fight against both the global pandemic and cross-border drug crime. The success of the authorities in these situations must be ensured through long-term, sustainable funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u5	Like this. — Representative Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u6	Mr President! Today's Internal Security Report is a different one. The first report was thoroughly discussed in Parliament, and in 2017 Parliament unanimously adopted the report of the Administrative Committee, which set out clear guidelines for the preparation of the next report. Unfortunately, it seems that Parliament's will was not passed on to the Marin Government and the Minister responsible for preparation, Ohio. In fact, the report exudes mainly green left ideologies with its new tongues. The main threats to Finland’s security are exclusion, climate change, discrimination, trafficking in human beings and hate crimes. The report is full of green left-wing terminology from ‘paperless’ to ‘painting’. Security threats such as terrorism, street gangs, drug-related crime, sexual crimes, organised crime and immigration have been neglected in the Green Paper, despite the concerns of the authorities. [Left: They will be there!] The report actually tells us that immigration promotes the vitality of Finnish society and Finland attracts experts. Why, then, is the proportion of foreign-language speakers in the use of social security increasing? In Helsinki, for example, more than 50 per cent of income support is already paid to foreign-language speakers. The share of experts, i.e. those applying for a residence permit with specialist status, is only a fraction of the annual applications. Whose interest is served by such distortion? In fact, distortion is mentioned in the report as one of the threats of information impact. [Department :ohhh! — Yes!] Mr President! The report can be credited with the fact that this time the entire criminal chain from police to the Criminal Sanctions Agency has been mentioned. It also fully recognises that high-quality services require sufficient resources. The report also lists the development targets identified by the authorities. Immediately thereafter, however, the report states that adequate services will be secured if the economic conditions of the State allow it. As we are well aware of the budgetary plan and the budget for next year, the Marin Government is by no means improving the state of internal security. Mr President! Maintaining internal security is one of the most important tasks of the state. We need every internal security authority. We need services both in cities and in sparsely populated areas. With a gun, a rampage, a fire or a drug problem are just as dangerous on land as in the city. The question of what State resources are spent on is a matter of value. The administrative sectors of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice account for around two and a half billion per year, which is not sufficient in this time and operating environment. Finland spends three and a half million euros a day on development aid — only 20 days of development aid would cover the financing needs of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. So there would be money, but the government is obviously not willing to use it for the safety of Finns, but rather to focus on improving the world. Mr President! One cannot help but wonder why a parliamentary monitoring group was needed at all when the report was drawn up on the ideological basis of the government. The Finns of Peru left a different opinion in the work of the observatory. We cannot sign the report because it does not represent a parliamentary vision or a situation picture and does not take sufficient account of Parliament's unanimous mandate and guidance for 2017. We believe that consideration should be given to the number of reports and also to the process. We do not see any point in organising observatories if there is no intention of reconciling views. We therefore sincerely hope that in the future the reports will either be carried out by the government or, alternatively, we will try to find a way of seeking the right consensus among the parties on the basis of the preparation of officials.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u9	Like this. — Representative Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u10	Mr President! Finland is one of the safest countries in the world. The Coalition Party wants Finland to be that in the future. The situation in Afghanistan is an indication of the possibility of sudden changes in developments affecting international security. Safety is not a matter of course. It needs constant action. The Government’s safety speech and objectives alone are not enough; security measures are also needed. Internal security issues are strongly linked to external security phenomena, social and cultural policy, but also to industrial and economic policy. By preventing bullying and exclusion, and by strengthening community and leisure opportunities, we prevent crime and other security-threatening phenomena. The Internal Security Report contains many good elements, such as preventive measures. However, the weakness of the report is that the emphasis on preventive measures is at the expense of traditional, so-called "hard security" measures. That is why the Assembly in the Parliamentary Monitoring Group could not fully agree with the content of the report. Our group believes that the report does not give an adequate opinion on internal security issues in order to respond to Parliament's will status, i.e. the objectives set out in the report of the Administrative Committee on 5/2017. The management of internal security requires both soft and tough means, love and borders, prevention and follow-up. Mr President! From the point of view of internal security, sufficient resources and powers of our security authorities are essential. Our professionals in the police, Border Guard, Customs, Emergency Response Centre and other security authorities do valuable work for the safety of Finns on a daily basis, 24/7. The least we who bear responsibility can do is to show them that they are well-functioning and well-functioning. The goal previously set by the joint and report is to increase the number of police officers to 8200 by 2030. The Government Programme aims at 7500 police officers by next year. Unfortunately, there is a flagrant contradiction between the words and actions of the government. The government's budget proposal for police resources is short of EUR 30 million. I have to ask: Why does the government not want to safeguard the police’s current basic functions? Why is the number of police officers falling even though it has been agreed that it will rise? From the beginning of the last parliamentary term, the number of police training places was raised by the then coalition of domestic ministers. Since 2017, the number of police officers has risen steadily. This is now the case where the interest rate has increased people's need for help and alerts. The Coalition Party does not accept compromising the safety of Finns, and we will present an alternative to government policy in our alternative budget, which will secure not only the police but also the resources of the entire criminal chain. The Coalition Party will present additional funding for the rule of law as a whole so that the bottlenecks in the criminal chain can be eliminated and legal security can be realised. Mr President! The worrying phenomenon that has also emerged during the interest rate crisis is youth delinquency, particularly in large cities. Among young people, the lack of visibility has grown and violence is more brutal. In Finland, the police have identified less than ten street gangs and warned against repeating the mistakes of Sweden and Denmark. The violence of young people must be tackled proactively and decisively. Young people must be given the assistance, support and services they need in a timely and timely manner. At the same time, the message of society to young people must be clear: the law must be observed. Every crime has consequences that can be serious regardless of age or background. Mr President! Organised crime is a merciless form of crime that internationalises and grows rapidly in Finland. In prisons, the strengthening of gang crime is also reflected in violence against prison guards. The Marin government has neglected the fight against organised crime. It is not even mentioned in the government programme over 200 pages. This is the last time, Mr Government, to wake up and fight organised crime. The growing and everyday problem of drugs needs effective interventions. In the opinion of the Coalition Party, it is essential to provide timely access to treatment and effective rehabilitation services for everyone who is addicted to substance abuse and drugs. Mr President! Internal security is the cornerstone of well-being. So that children can go to school, everyone can live, study, try and work,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u11	And Congressman Huttunen, Hanna.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u12	Mr President! Finland is a safe country on a global scale. But we're not hiding from evil here either. The everyday life must be safe for every Finn, throughout the country. Security needs to be felt. A person needs to know that he will receive help in his distress within a reasonable time. Security must also be visible. Cops and police cars must be seen everywhere in Finland. We are talking about equality between people and different parts of the country. It's important to the city center that the police's resources are secured. The police budget will be higher next year than it was in a long time. Money will be allocated to the presence of the police, especially in areas of weaker services. However, something has gone wrong over the years when the money is never enough. The use and allocation of police funds should therefore be thoroughly investigated in cooperation with the ministries and the Police Government. The problem can no longer be overcome. We decision-makers need to be clear as to why the money is not enough to go to the airport. What is important is that the police are present in people’s everyday lives, both in cities and in rural areas. Centralization of police services is not acceptable. Mr President! If anything, security is cooperation. Cooperation between the police, the Border Guard and Customs is also internationally recognised. It is also done seamlessly in my own country, North Karelia, near the eastern border. Border guards work day and night; they do valuable work to control the borders of our country. The Border Guard also performs police tasks, search and rescue tasks and emergency services. With effective and credible border controls, we will be able to eradicate organised crime and human smuggling. Customs also fights crime and protects society, the environment and Finns. Without its work, there would be much more illegal drugs and drugs on the streets. [JaniMäkeläarvo] Mr President! The increase in nausea among children and young people is a cause for concern. Over the course of the year, we have seen where it can lead at its worst. Repeated and serious crime accumulates in a small number of children and young people. Crimes, traumas and abuse, such as domestic violence or bullying, experienced in the early stages of life, increase the risk of committing crimes and becoming a victim even in adulthood. This needs to be addressed. Children, young people and families must be helped in time. The activities of family centres, for example, must therefore be extended to the whole of Finland. Mr President! The security of our country is also an important competitive factor for skilled people looking for a new home and investing companies seeking investment targets. People and businesses value the security and stability that Finland has been able to offer them for a long time. Internal security therefore also plays an important role in bringing our economy back to growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u13	And Congressman Holopainen, Hanna.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u14	Mr President! Security is discussed in Parliament through three Government reports. These are the Foreign and Security Policy Report and the Defence Report and the present report on internal security. The change in threat images has made the aspect of internal security increasingly integral to the whole of national security. Wide-ranging engagement aims to exploit the vulnerabilities of society, and it is therefore increasingly important to ensure the stability of society and the climate of mutual trust. It is important for us to remember that hostile influence can be one of the main reasons for democracy. For example, the aim may be to undermine confidence in elections and the rule of law. The Group of the Greens reminds us that our decision-makers must be particularly responsible so that we do not contribute to the climate of distrust and the dissemination of false information that undermines social peace. Climate change also poses security threats to citizens that need to be prepared for. Natural disasters, natural disasters, forest fires and floods will become more common in the future. Mr President! Finland is the safest country in the world. Research shows that more than 90 per cent of Finns feel safe. However, less than ten percent do not feel the same way. For them, insecurity and fear are strongly present in everyday experiences. Disorders, accidents and crimes are unevenly distributed among the population. All too often they are met by those who are already disadvantaged. Exclusion, nausea and the accumulation of problems are among the greatest threats to Finland’s internal security. The isolation of the Korona era has increased the nausea of older people, children and young people in particular. Mr President! Much has been said about police resources this autumn. We trust the police, and this should continue to be the case. Police training has traditionally been popular, but concerns arise about the future if the police’s workload turns out to be excessive. Care should be taken to keep the police working, and safety at work should not be compromised. Targeting should not be allowed and the budget must be kept adequate. During this term of government, additional resources have been made available to combat, for example, trafficking in human beings and cybercrime. The resources for preventative police work have been strengthened and Ankuri activities have been developed across the country. For these resources, we can thank the Minister for the Interior, Maria Ohio, as well as the fact that the indoor air problems in the premises have finally been seriously addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u17	Congressman Semi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u18	Mr President! Finland is the safest country in the world — but is it for all of us? However, while the majority is safer than ever, vulnerable people experience insecurity. This Internal Security Report again highlights how internal security is, above all, an issue of inequality. The underlying factors for crime, for example, for both perpetrators and victims, are the weaker socio-economic status and the overgeneration of problems. By addressing the root causes of crime, we can be building a safer future. Mr President! The Left Alliance stresses that a coherent dismantling of inequalities is the most effective security policy. With high-quality education, adequate social security and accessible basic services, we create the basis for a safe life — a life in which people can count on society to support them in the worst days — we can rely on the authorities to get help when they need it, because we live together equally here. We want to be creating a Finland where people can trust the future. With trust, well-being and a sense of inclusion, we prevent insecurity. Trust is also built by the fact that everyone in Finland has the right to help quickly, regardless of where they live. We need to ensure sufficient resources for the police, so that aid is genuinely available also in sparsely populated areas and that crime prevention and investigation are effective. Mr President! In the preparation of the report, a wide range of experts have been consulted and a wide range of safety aspects have been raised. We in the Left Alliance believe it is important that internal security is looked at in a broad manner. For example, we must pay attention to the prevalence of violence against women in Finland, the proportionality of the use of force by the police, the threat posed by extreme right-wing and racism, and climate change and environmental disasters. Only by truly understanding the multi-disciplinary nature of internal security can we really develop a safer Finland for all. Degrade inequality, increase trust, increase inclusion, resource quality services, develop cooperation and also combat future threats, because, as the report also states, the root causes of security problems are effectively influenced by activities other than safety authorities in particular. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u19	Ledamot Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u20	Ärade Herr talman, Mr President! The Swedish Parliamentary Group strongly supports the guidelines of the report. Many of these are historical. Prevention will be put at the heart of everything. Work towards greater security is based on helping the individual and the community. The main threats are marginalisation and externality. It feels like we've finally moved on to the 2020s. Mr President! Security is one of the cornerstones of life. Although Finnish society in general is safe, many people and groups of people do not feel safe. We must combat exclusion and exclusion because they threaten internal security. Finland differs from other Nordic countries in that accidents and deaths are much more common among Finnish men. In our society, many women are victims of violence even in their own home, which should be the safest place for a person. Our society must have zero tolerance for violence against women and all other forms of violence. Our society must also have zero tolerance for all forms of discrimination against people. Human dignity and respect for other people regardless of gender, colour, religion and sexual orientation is the foundation of Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u21	Mr President! Internal security is a central task of the state. Society must strengthen confidence that Finland is a safe country to live in, live, work and try. The conditions and performance of the authorities must be ensured. The government's decision not to increase sufficient funding for the police shows that, despite the report, internal security is not high on the Government Party's priority list. The primary objective of the report should be to create a framework for the functioning of safety authorities. The focus should be on internal security. Minister Ohio's report is completely ideologically colored. Attention is spread across different policy sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u32	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u33	Mr President, ärade talman! As has been said in all speeches, Finland is the safest country in the world. In the future, more and more work will have to be done on this. There are constantly new threats, such as criminal activity online. Moreover, not everything is as good as the statistics suggest. Domestic violence against children and women, for example, is still far too widespread in Finland, and not all cases will ever come to the attention of the authorities. Domestic violence is a harsh example of the fact that there is still much to be desired in terms of both prevention and smoother cooperation between authorities. When a young person’s first authority is a police officer or a district judge, we are late and have failed both at home, at school and in other neighborhoods. There are truly shocking news from the school world from the time of Korona. Some children already in primary school have been missing for weeks at a distance. There, teachers, assistants or school psychologists are of little use if a young person is not even reached. The roughest example was experienced in Koskela, Helsinki, where three minors tortured their peers to death. Displacement begins early, and social problems pile up with the same people. Such developments lead to inequalities in society and also pose the greatest threat to security. Extending compulsory education will not help if under 15-year-olds do not even come to school. In Sweden, the commitment of immigrants to society has failed. Under no circumstances should we make the same mistakes. Problem neighborhoods have been built in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. These are the laws of the jungle, and some of them the police are afraid to go at night. We must learn from this. In Helsinki, young gangs commit crimes and run drug trafficking. This needs to be addressed in time and with sufficient effort. Mr President, ärade talman! Social media offers a good opportunity for an open and constructive debate, but not just good, if not bad. Social media has also become a platform for widespread hybrid and information impact. The most recent example has now been seen in the elections in Russia, where the state has tried and also been able to influence the activities of non-power parties online. The dream of Internet openness is becoming a nightmare. In Finland, too, the term ‘painting’ is often spoken about by politicians, officials,researchers and other social actors. The future of the Internet and digital services is based on trust that they work and are completely safe. That is why all network scams are extremely regrettable because they undermine this confidence. Most of the scams are due to people's gullibility or foolishness, but they are still reprehensible. Even more unfortunate is the case of the defendants who have acquired extremely sensitive medical records and who use them to blackmail and collect ransom money. Mr President, ärade talman! Everything that has just been said underscores the fact that the world of authorities has changed and will change more and more rapidly in the future. The necessary resources must be guaranteed to the authorities, and efforts must be made to improve their mutual flow of information and cooperation. There must be more ways to deal with the problems in time. The government's game with the police money is pointless and beneath us. The Green Minister of the Interior is more interested in peat than in security. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u34	Congressman Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u35	Mr President! We are talking about the internal security of our country. This is a multidimensional and extremely important subject, perhaps the most important area of policy. The excellent report is that it is quite clear and well structured. It is reprehensible that, at least between the lines, it can be seen that this too is unfortunately a politically colored document — even if this should be acceptable to all parties. It should give an honest picture of the situation as compared to the defence report and taking account of all parties involved. Mr President! The report highlights anticipation. That is a good thing, because security is basically about political policies and decisions. For example, police resources alone do not prevent crime, as the police do not arrive until the crime has taken place. Critical points should be a desire to seize early, as effective prevention creates the best security.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u38	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u39	Mr President! Much is happening in the area of internal security today. When the news is followed, there are many harmful developments. Drug use and related crime are increasing. Young people's acts of violence are in the headlines. The majority of foreign gangs are also a threat in Finland. In order to improve the fight against these harmful phenomena, a parliamentary report has been prepared by the Government. I myself was in the group that drew up the report, and I would like to point out at this point that the report could provide more solutions to the management of our security challenges. The Coalition Party, together with the Finns and Christian Democrats, disagreed with the content of the completed report. As such, the issues raised in this report are important. Finnish society must help people who are excluded, combat participation and try to organise matters in such a way that everyone has the opportunity to participate in society in a constructive way. Preventive action is valuable and important. However, this task cannot primarily be carried out by the police or other rescue and security authorities, but mainly by the activities of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Education and Culture. Preventive action will not solve the high-security problems currently in place. The report is weighted in the wrong way. In the work of the parliamentary group, we raised a number of concrete security issues which should have been taken into account in the report. Organised crime, drugs and the problem of ganging — along with many other things — should have been taken into account more deeply and concretely. However, they are growing problems in Finnish society. For example, there was no comprehensive reflection on the real resource needs of public authorities or future investment needs in the group. The term ‘paperless’wasrequestedfor ouraction nottobe usedin accordance withthe Council’s own guidelines,buttherebythe Council The report should have provided a more detailed overview of the investment and development needs of the Internal Security Industry. There was agreement on increasing the number of police posts, but I still wonder why this is not reflected in the government's practical measures. Is the safety of the police all right now and in the future? Is the equipment up-to-date? Can the Border Guard control systems be reformed? How could the training of fire and rescue personnel be increased, given that there is already a labour shortage? Fortunately, these points have been acknowledged in the report, but there are no actual solutions. Cybercrime, organised crime, gangs of criminals, the symptoms of young people, drug crime and so on are growing problems that burden the police more than ever. The arrival of Isis terrorists in Finland and increased espionage burden the protection police to an increasing extent. The fire and rescue services and the Border Guard have training and investment needs I have just mentioned. All these elements need to be taken over, and this will not be possible without close shared awareness of the situation and increased resources. For example, the police are now so under-resourced that a significant number of crimes are simply not investigated. Many citizens no longer even bother to report a crime, such as the theft of bicycles. In remote villages, it takes time, time and time to get police help. The number of police officers needs to be increased, and I wonder why this is where it is so difficult for the government to provide funding when there is enough debt money for almost everything else in the world. The Government has produced a collection of three reports designed to outline the prospects and developments in the security of our country as well as concrete actions. These reports are the Foreign and Security Policy Report, the Defence Report and the Internal Security Report under discussion. I do not believe that these reports are of the same weight. The UTP report and the defence report are valuable and powerful in their policies and effectiveness, but unfortunately this internal security report does not meet the need it has tried to make. Mr President! As I said, the representatives of the opposition parties expressed divergent views on this outcome. The Minutes of the parliamentary group included our request to mention that the parliamentary monitoring group is not unanimous on the content of the report. The opposition took the view that the present report did not take an adequate position on internal security issues so that it could be considered to achieve the objectives required by the report of the Parliamentary Administrative Committee. However, with regard to the work of the parliamentary working group, I would like to make a special mention to Mr Kari, who, in this difficult and divided situation, was able to lead the work forward in a good and fair way. Thank you. Mr President! The report is useful but not sufficiently comprehensive and does not provide an indication
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u40	Congressman Kinnunen, Jari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u41	Mr President, the government, the representatives and the public! I've been able to read the security report before. I believe I have the insight to evaluate this article. This output is a source of confusion. Its content is, as it were, a herring salad with a copy-paste technique, where the real thing remains in the background but where, instead, a wide range of threats and isolated visions are painted. The content is contradictory between the different paragraphs. This is in conflict with the entire government's activities, but especially with the flagrant political direction of the Ministry of the Interior's administrative sector and the security situation outside that of ordinary people. The core of internal security rests on the granite solid foundation set up by the various safety authorities. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are crumbling this foundation. Either you do it on purpose or you do it incompetence, but none of your activities, the least greening intervention in operational activities, actually contributes to the security of citizens or even to the sense of security, and this document does not change it. For climate change, immigration, a tense international situation as well as corona, you have managed to get used bits and paper on the sides, but you have passed the essence of safety with a few lightly embroidered pieces and without concreteness. The text refers very briefly to revealing activities and, on the other hand, to information management. Good government! Not all information is available directly from the computer, but first information must be obtained and then entered into the files. This information often has to be obtained from the field and from various encrypted data transmission platforms. It's almost completely bypassed. Last year’s so-called Christmas gift money set in motion an action designed to clarify the extent of drug trafficking on the Internet’s secret platforms. There is no mention of this in the document. Apparently, this function produces too much real information and you're going to drive that down too. The final pages highlight vigorously how safety will be produced in the future by increasing staff, equipment, geographical coverage, training and cooperation between authorities. Throughout your chaotic reign, however, you have burst and breathed like a big bad wolf to undermine the foundations of security structures, and it is therefore absurd to read from you the text that has been embroidered in this document. You have intervened in the operational activities of the police in an unprecedented and unheard of way. In this way, you have caused confusion and the public's confidence in the police to be undermined. You have given your blessing to illegal activity, and it has continued to cause uncertainty among the citizens. You have spoken in your speeches and you are now saying in this production that you will secure the conditions for internal order and security. Instead, your future under-resourced budget, the imposition of police and perhaps other security authorities to use more expensive equipment and more expensive products, as well as the diversion of police activities with existing resources away from the priorities of action, shows that you have considered non-security measures to be more important than the conditions under which the authorities operate and the safeguarding of the daily lives of citizens. Mr President! The report should look into something. This didn't do it. However, it clarified that your actions, the government, are undermining the foundations of security and will ultimately cause the security situation to collapse. Then you will no longer have to burst and blow like the Great Bad Wolf. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u42	Thank you. — Ladies and gentlemen, it was only during this speech that I discovered the need to debat. And quite rightly, you have stood up and pressed the V button, so let's start the debat. — — — — Congressman Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u43	Mr President! I find it a little peculiar that we have created a confrontation between these so-called soft methods and tough security, because even our authorities recognise that a sense of security arises from trust in society and others, from the experience of inclusion, from life management, from predictability and from the experience of justice. In addition, trust is built on the fact that our authorities have sufficient resources, and, for example, increasing the number of police officers is about maintaining the confidence of our citizens. The less crimes are investigated, the less police appear on the street, the more confidence is lost, and we cannot afford this development. This development is being addressed through a number of different tools: both by increasing the number of police officers, to which the Social Democrats are strongly committed, and by many other actions in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u44	And Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u45	Mr President! Congressman Heinäluoma here wonders about confrontation. I would consider this debate to be more of a realism. These realistic things have been raised here, and that realism has been difficult for the Marin government for two years. In this earlier group speech in the centre, it was raised that the use of police money is a problem, not too small resources. Where did you, downtown, get this idea that the police are spending some kind of money? And thirdly, I have to say to Minister Ohio that it is quite grotesque to paint the number of police officers in this report by 8200 by 2030, while you are now, with both the budgetary plan and next year's budget, crumbling this number of policemen, which it is now, down to about 300.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u46	Congressman Huttunen, Hanna.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u47	Thank you, Mr President. I can say to Mr Rantanen that it was certainly not said that the use of police money is a problem. We have a budget of 850 million. We have spoken throughout the time that the whole of Finland must be protected, and we have spoken for the few regions. And although the political will has probably been felt by everyone that police stations are occupied throughout Finland, there has been a situation that police authorities have left the few areas. It won't bring security if it's just a property with a police sign on the wall. The public understands that it does not come from an empty house; it comes specifically from police cars and policemen. We call for this to be the last time to have a debate with both the ministry and the police administration on how we can come together to the best end and guarantee safe living and living in Finland for all citizens, including in those sparsely populated areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u48	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u49	Mr President! In order to achieve internal security, it is important that we work together and that we have a shared picture of the situation. When listening to this round of group speeches, the common picture of the situation has not necessarily been created in this report on internal security at the level that would have been desirable for a very long line of parliamentary work and desirable, especially at the beginning of this decade and in the case of difficult situations. However, the resources of the security authorities are one of the key measures to ensure that internal security is achieved, even though preventive action and social policy are also needed, and so on. But let us hope that this Chamber and Parliament will now find the common picture of the situation and cooperation that has long been used to build internal security measures and also set common objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u50	Congressman Kari, Mika.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u51	Mr President! Thus, as chairman of the monitoring group, I would first like to thank the Minister and the Secretary-General for their work of about a year and a half. I myself have been allowed to be a member of the Foreign and Security Policy Observatory and the Defence Policy Observatory as well as last season. In terms of nature, these work of the Observatory is perhaps the most important difference between the fact that on the side of internal security, which is being done for the first time otherwise parliamentaryly, these details, which have different priorities, are more than in foreign and security policy or defence — and it is only acceptable, it is part of this political system, and so, well, it is worth it. But what is valuable in this report is that this is not only a criticism of the current government, but also of the past, because these problems have not arisen in this government either, and this is what we are trying to do together through the work of the committee in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u52	And Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u53	Mr President! For me too, the report seems more like a social and equality policy diversity programme than an internal security report. However, there is no real need for confrontation between soft and hard methods. But if we look at the situation in Sweden at the moment: there has been a significant increase in the number and resources of the police, but, at the same time, if certain things, such as restricting immigration, have not been taken care of, then it will not produce good results. Nor do I believe that Sweden has not invested enough in integration and these prevention measures, but, as we can see, they will ultimately be of little importance if we do not take care of the essential hard issues at the same time. There is no point in confrontation between cities and sparsely populated areas either. I believe that if the police did not have to devote so much resources to the consequences of, for example, trafficking in human beings, hate speech, racism and, above all, talking about the consequences of problematic immigration, perhaps to sparsely populated areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u54	Congressman Tolvanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u55	Mr President! After all, internal security is a very important element in overall security. At least I am in favour of soft methods, but there is also a need for tough measures, and this report unfortunately lacks them. As the Minister acknowledges, international organised crime is growing, we have street gangs and prison gangs. These things are not just made better by petting them. Drug crime is on the rise, cybercrime is on the rise, sexual crime is on the increase and, unfortunately, police resources are being reduced, as has been said here. There's no point in saying otherwise. 911's in distress. Border Guard, Customs: they do not go well either, not to mention the judicial authorities. This equation is bad. This funding for the police and other authorities has never been any good. With Mr Kari we were in the 2015 parliamentary working group, and our output has already wiped the table in two government negotiations. But now it's a disaster. Now the authorities are in trouble, and at the same time the citizens are in trouble.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u56	Congressman Column.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u57	Mr President! Surely all the groups in this Chamber are concerned about the visibility of the police and the adequacy of resources. At least there, when I was listening to those group speeches, this is the kind of uniform line I drew from that. Between 2017 and 2022, the police budget has been increased from 700 million to 850 million, which means that development is increasing, leading to an increase, but I nevertheless recognise this problem, as has been said in previous speeches, that this is a long-term problem. I got a call yesterday from an entrepreneur's wife. This entrepreneur was beaten on his own site when drug creditors or drug addicts wanted money from this entrepreneur. The family is threatened, and they are under pressure from the attackers to find money. The police seem powerless. Internal security is not just a question of money. It also means a lot more than that, and I'm sure our job here would be to look for those solutions,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u58	Congressman Holopainen, Hanna.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u59	Mr President! Contrary to what the opposition claims, this government has made an unprecedented effort to secure social peace.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u64	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u65	Mr President! Here the government parties, and especially the Greens, thank Minister Ohio for the police's resources and for this security situation, although these indicators, for example, in the case of juvenile delinquency or drug-related crime — many types of crime — seem quite different. And in Question Time, Minister Ohio, you admitted that there are adjustments to the police compared to the current situation, and you even talked about police dismissals. If the minister decides on adjustments, it would also be reasonable for the minister to state what is being adjusted, what is being cut, what is the police function that can be cut off from. For example, juvenile delinquency, drug crime and gang development would require a much stronger focus on police work in the field where young people are moving, prevention, school police, Ankkuri activities and the detection of drug crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u66	Congressman Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u67	Mr President! In many speeches, drugs, especially drugs, have come to the fore, and they do play an essential role when it comes to internal security. I can tell you that drug abuse and social work with substance abusers are not always just ironing your head. It's learning the daily rules of the game, being responsible and getting out of the criminal cycle, being intoxicated, that's all the good it brings when it comes. It is absolutely essential that we talk about helping the most vulnerable people. It's part of internal security. The cops are our heroes, the rescuers are our heroes, it's definitely like this. But the heroes of everyday life are also those who today care for our disadvantaged, offer food help, offer a place to meet, offer accommodation for the night to come. They're the heroes of everyday life.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u68	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u72	Congressman Häkkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u73	Mr President! In the opinion of the Assembly, security policy should focus on prevention, but at the same time it must be realistic in the face of new security threats, a cold realistic, to recognise the facts. And now this paper does not sufficiently recognise the facts, nor does the government budget. These do not recognise the facts, they go more towards the social authorities than towards the safety authorities. Cooperation must be between the authorities, but the core elements must be clear in mind. Minister Ohio, you are the Minister of Security. Now this suggests something else. Take an example: In spring, police chiefs throughout Finland, a joint statement: ‘Drug-related coloringis the biggest threat to safety in Finland. This is a situation of serious deterioration.’ This is not reflected in this report. At the same time, the increase in organised crime throughout Finland is not reflected in this paper.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u74	It's pretty full. — Representative Semi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u75	Mr President! Security is more than just cops. We have to assume that when a child is raised, the child is taken from home and has a safe environment. Early childhood education must have a good basis for coping there with other children and becoming such a common good about it and being able to live a safe life throughout childhood. The same applies to school so that a young person can study safely there. That's how we build this secure society. It is a long process in which security can be achieved in this country and maintained with it. Of course we need a cop. That's a fact. Police visibility brings certain security, as well as border guards, firefighters at our fire stations, they all need them. They're very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u76	And now, Mr Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u77	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to the assembly that all the resources for tough security are currently greater than those of the governments that had the place of Prime Minister or Minister of Finance. Secondly, when international examples have been taken here, I would like to say that for me the example is Great Britain. After 15 to 16 years of conservative government, Labour came to power. Their aim was: ‘wearetoughoncrimesandtoughonthecausesofthecrimestoo’, ‘we have decided on a divisional basis in relation to offences but also on their causes.’ In this spirit, I believe that this report has also been prepared.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u78	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u79	Mr President! Minister Ohio said here that caring for internal security is not just a matter for this government. It's true. It is also a matter for future governments and for all governments, but it must also be a matter for this government. This means and sums up the fact that the resources needed by the police, which have already been called for in several speeches, must be found in this situation. The message is quite clear that internal security will be weakened if the police’s human resources are reduced, and because it is a type of industry that it cannot really save other than the staff, it is inevitable if these sums are not sufficient. I would like to mention the fact that new police officers are graduating from the Police School. Does anyone here really think that it is not in the interests of society that these graduating policemen get to work on that police mission? If anyone disagrees, then you can defend the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u80	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u81	Thank you, Mr President. As our President, Mr Purra, said, this seems more like a social situation report, which is an important issue in itself, but it is very difficult to imagine that a person who has committed serious crime or a terrorist simply by talking about it and using a social worker to correct it. In this program and in the Minister’s speeches, it seems that a man in Eastern Finland, an unemployed one, poses the greatest security threat to Finland, [Jussi Saramo’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u82	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u83	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for highlighting the importance of contract fire brigades as part of the Finnish rescue operation. In Finland there are about 30,000 contract firefighters plus then voluntary other actors, and the principle of their activity is the will of the heart to do, almost this kind of defence spirit or the will to help. Among other things, the Government Programme states that the operating conditions for contract fire brigades will be strengthened and identified with the current and future challenges and special features. Now that the Rescue Act is being reformed, it would be an excellent place to also look at the status of contract fire brigades in Finland and sign it up alongside them as well as the rescue service operators. There has been talk of police resources here, and that is quite right, but the SM itself has stated that there is a need for a level increase of approximately EUR 80 million in the rescue operation, plus the Association of Contract Fire brigades has estimated that some 50 million would also be needed there.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u84	Ledamot Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u85	Irade the Talman! The Government's Internal Security Report states that the recruitment of training and personnel ensures that the effective service capacity of the authorities is secured in Finnish and Swedish.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u86	Mr President! We've had security reports here, one after the other. We approved the report on foreign and security policy. Now we have two reports here on concepts, a defence report and a report on internal security. It may be reasonable for us to go through this security sector in such a broad way. We are familiar with the concept of broad security. And, after all, this internal security report shows a great deal of security. I have wondered a little about these statements by the opposition. In particular, I was amazed at Jari Kinnusen’s strikingly angry speech. It criticised this report as an absurd speech. When I carefully listened to what you said, then — this, of course, is not going to change, but — it seemed very absurd, it was your speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u89	When the name is mentioned, it will be given to Mr. Kinnus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u93	Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u94	Mr. Speaker! This report is of very poor quality. The government is shutting its eyes to the problem of migration and its problems. You say here, as if reassuring the reader, that most migration is controlled and that immigration is not an issue of internal security. The report also highlights the importance of foreign labour for Finland, as if this document were also intended to justify migration and not to address internal security. The government is more concerned than security about the fact that the attitude to immigration is leading to social divides. So the finger pointing to the Finns again. However, Finns are not really a security threat to each other by their social media behaviour or by their supposedly discriminatory attitudes or goals, which the Green Left is constantly cultivating. Finland stands in the way of Sweden: violent crimes are raging, street violence is directed against bystanders. Don't you understand the consequences of bad immigration?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u95	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u96	Mr President! It is a good thing that this Internal Security Report highlights organised crime on the one hand and hybrid influence and terrorism on the other. There was a lot of talk about the opposition and the word ‘improvement of the world’ was used here,but I believe that part of the work we do,in our international cooperation and in our foreign gamesfields,we It is great that the government sees that this work, which is also done outside Finland's borders, is also of great importance to our safety and how we take care of our everyday lives here, so thank you for that. I also hope that, when this debate comes to a very strong confrontation with the government, it will also be remembered that we, the Parliament, have a very important role to play when this report is being discussed in committee and we leave it to ourselves to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u97	Congressman Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u98	Mr President! We are having an important debate here on internal security. I would like to thank Minister Ohio for presenting a comprehensive report. It has been said here that Finland is the safest country in the world, even though Finland has small European police forces. It contributes to the development of internal security as a result of the work done by schools and kindergartens, social and health services and communities. The broad concept of security in the report is therefore welcome. Exclusion, nausea and the accumulation of problems are among the greatest threats to internal security in Finland, as has been well identified here. Finland’s internal security policy must therefore be based primarily on the prevention of the challenges and threats posed by these problems. I would also like to thank Mrs Vilja for bringing the daily life of substance abuse work into this Chamber. It is important that the police have the resources not only to solve crimes but also to prevent them, and I would have asked Minister Ohio: what measures has this preventive work been added to this period?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u99	And Congressman Eskelinen. — Mr Eskelinen has left, so let's move on. — Representative Niemi, Veijo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u100	Mr President! Internal security is, of course, also very important to me on the basis of police background. I would have asked the Minister for the Interior: when the police are short of this EUR 30 million, what can we do in the police, among other things, with a few regional patrols and suburban police activities, which are nevertheless included in the government programme? Then, especially from the direction of the Greens, it became that the police have good, healthy, and safe facilities. In such a small town as Tampere is a really bad indoor police building in evasive spaces and elsewhere. Similarly, in order to strengthen Finland’s participation in the EU military crisis management training mission in Mali, the same EUR 30 million will be thrown out just by chance in order to attract more people. Is this so difficult, one 30 million, to keep the police budget on time and on schedule? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u101	Mr S.H.I.E.L.D. will answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u102	Mr President! 30 million, what does that mean? After all, the police have had post-traumatic workshops for ten years and are treating traumatized and even disabled policemen in a critical situation. I have been involved in that activity right from the start, and it has really deepened my view of what that police work really is. During this period, critical situations have clearly increased, such as arms. At the same time, cumulative stress has increased very dramatically. The stacks on the investigators' table are just getting bigger and more tasks are being brought to the police all the time. Those 30 million mean that critical situations will only increase. You can't even do that preventative work if you don't have any money and you don't even have to talk about it there when you grow up. And that missing money means the spine of internal security is breaking. It has been stretched for far too long. Minister of the Interior,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u103	And as promised, at this point, Minister Ohio, three minutes. Then we'll see if there's a need to continue this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u104	Mr President! Thank you for your very good comments, for a good debate. Quite a few raised the issue of prevention here. It came up from different angles. It rose from the point of view, among other things, that there has been too much emphasis here. On the other hand, it rose from the point of view that it is important that it should rise in this report. Attention should now be turned to the starting point for preparing this report. So, on the basis of the process of the previous report, there was a wide-ranging debate, which was lacking, and it was in this house that it was found that it focused only on the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior. In other words, it lacked all the links to other security factors as it were, and that is why this report specifically wanted to respond to this concern expressed by Parliament. This report has also responded to Parliament's concern about these resource needs. So it has been recorded how many rescuers, border guards, emergency services officers, police officers will be needed in the coming years so that we can jointly sign this future resource development and go towards it. In other words, it is Parliament's wishes that this is the shape it is here today. Many Members wondered whether this was perhaps a political document. Well, this is a Government report. It has been involved in the work of the parliamentary group and, as I said at the beginning, I would like to thank that group again. Many of your comments have been brought in. I am sure that the members of the group themselves will remember what things have come from you in particular. This report has been carried out in the Ministry of the Interior's administrative sector in a comprehensive manner in consultation and making use of all administrative sectors. This is where Mr Kinnunen referred to the fact that the police have not been consulted here. It is precisely the police government that has been preparing for this. [JaniMäkeläarvo] Many speakers drew attention to the fact that the resources were suddenly falling sharply. Yes, the police need 30 million more, and it's been identified. We have the tools to look at amending budgets and supplementary budgets. We're gonna see if we can take advantage of these. But it is true, as I have said many times, that police funding would require long-term action. As I said last week, one government does not at one time put in place the entity in which we have a repair debt, except for buildings, they are well mentioned here,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u105	Now I see, ladies and gentlemen, that there is still a need to continue the debate. Press the V button and stand up. The main emphasis is on those Members who have not yet received the floor. — Mr Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u106	Mr President! This report sounds more like an act of inciting distrust and division, that the parliamentary process is, in a way, being harnessed as a rubber stamp for the government's own red-green agenda. This is not the kind of game we're playing. Trust is not a matter of course; it has to be earned every day. The police deserve to be trusted to solve crimes and to be able to respond to citizens' requests, and now the government is deliberately gnawing that confidence on the part of the public. In addition to resources, it is also essential that the police focus on the right crime, for example, not on those who use freedom of expression, but on catching criminals. During Question Time, Minister Ohio avoided the question for 54 minutes and now a little over two hours. I would like to ask again: how is it possible for you to put 1200 million in development aid when you take 7,000 million in debt but no 30 million in money for the police?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u107	Congressman Jokinen, Kalle.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u108	Mr President! The Internal Security Report could be a very important political line if it were done properly. Now it has not been done properly, and this is not a significant policy. Unfortunately, this is a very far cry from the everyday reality in which the security authorities are daily wrestling in that field. Finland has the lowest number of police officers in Europe, some 130 per 100,000 citizens. The European average is around 320 police officers per 100,000 citizens. So, according to this, there should be about 17,500 police officers in Finland instead of 7,500 in order to be on the European average. In the budget debate, you failed the security promise made to the citizens. You have increased permanent expenditure by EUR 1.4 billion this period, you will be in debt by EUR 7 billion next year, but EUR 30 million was not found for citizens' safety. Why didn't they find it? Is this a choice of values?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u109	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I am pleased that from the bottom of less than 7,200 policemen have now reached this close to seven and a half thousand, and I am of course pleased that the level of police funding of just under 700 million has now been on the rise and will be just over EUR 850 million next year. But that is not enough, as we know. The threats are multiplying. Unfortunately, we are increasingly in need of police and police-like work. When we have also identified those items of expenditure — for example, on the real estate side, we have increased costs on the ict side — could one way be to go into something similar to the idea of the Defence Forces when we went to the defence properties, so that, for example, the costs of property and ict expenses could be more controlled, so that the additional money that has been given — good — would then go to the number of policemen and to the fact that the police are seen in the everyday lives of the citizens?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u111	Congressman Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u112	Mr President! The majority of insecurity arises directly and indirectly from inequality, but of course the so-called hard security is always needed, and that is why this government gives the police much more money than the Coalition Party and the Basic Finns when they are in the government. It was mentioned here that 690 million have now come to over 800 million, and you are talking here about 30 million. If we ask any sector of government, there is a need for all sectors of government. I hope there will be more police officers than the 250 that has now been added, but be honest: in your time the police were less invested than they are now. However, I think it is important that this government invests especially in education and in children and young people, because that will mean that fewer police officers will be needed in the future. I have to say about credibility, when a lot of credibility statements have been made here, that few things have taken so much of the credibility of the police from me.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u114	And now, Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u115	Mr President! In the spring, the Government agreed to cut EUR 370 million, which will take effect from 2023. A memo from the Ministry of the Interior dated 3 May revealed that the Ministry was initially making cuts of EUR 7 million in immigration expenditure, but the ministry finally decided to make the biggest savings in police spending. Later in August, Minister Ohio tweeted: ‘Police work has overshadowed the scarcity and polarity of resources. The resource challenges of the police are serious, and the situation is long-standing. At the Ministry of the Interior, we have consistently proposed increases in police resources.” The Minister then spoke about future adjustments during Question Time. If the problem arises, Minister, why is the Ministry of the Interior that you are running not acting consistently? This short-term action does not add to the sense of security, but the EUR 30 million shortfall will weaken it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u116	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u117	Mr President! The problem with this report is, in fact, that only soft means are available, and, as has been shown here by a number of contributions from the Group of the European People's Party, we also need the hard ways to tackle these problems. Organised crime, drugs, gangbanging, problems caused by immigration, Isis terrorists entering Finland — there are no tangible, hard ways to do this. Mr President! Let me take one example, and that is the situation in Afghanistan. Now all the experts have said that once NATO, the West, has left it, it is quite an attractive platform for, for example, the rebirth of terrorism. But where are our laws on terrorism at the moment? When are we going to get an update of them here in Parliament? We have been waiting for it since the beginning of this parliamentary term, but it just does not appear. I understand that this is not directly within the remit of the Minister for the Interior, but as a representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u118	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u119	Mr President! The internal security week begins on the day when a person is in distress and needs the assistance of a police officer or another authority immediately. Finland is divided in this area: in sparsely populated rural areas, it is a very long, long-term expectation — whether it can usually come at all. Fortunately, in the municipalities of the eastern border, this cooperation between the Border Guard and the police works excellently, and we have received many assistance through cooperation between the Border Guard and the police, and hopefully this good cooperation will continue, and I believe that this is what the PTR cooperation will do and will continue to do in the future. But the group president of the city centre is represented by The column mentioned this serious risk to national security as a result of the spread of drugs. Unfortunately, there are more and more situations of this kind in Finland, as the Column described, and when the Greens decided that cannabis should be legalized, I wonder, quite frankly, why such decisions are generally taken, because if it were to be taken, it would lead to a total collapse in the whole criminal investigation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u120	Congressman Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u121	Mr President! Strong social and social trust is a cornerstone of internal security. This means promoting human rights, eradicating racism and improving the smooth functioning of the administrative chains between the police, the prosecutor and the courts. At present, one serious factor that undermines social confidence is the lengthy processing times of Finland’s judicial processes. The waiting times for many disputes are excessively long, and this creates additional uncertainty for many. It is therefore important that cooperation between the prosecutor and the police be stepped up in order to speed up criminal proceedings. In addition, the time limits for processing the judicial process must be reduced and the criminal procedure streamlined. It is absolutely essential that the services of the safety authorities are produced in such a way that people receive assistance quickly, efficiently and equally throughout the country. Services reduce inequalities between groups of people and strengthen the sense of security when different security chains play well together. The opposition rhetoric in this room isn't today.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u122	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u123	Mr President! The concern about the police budget has rightly been raised here. However, I would also like to raise concerns about the funding gap in the rescue service, which is estimated to be much higher than EUR 80 million. There are shortcomings not only in the personnel there but also in equipment and training, real estate. Just as Mr Pirttilahti mentioned here, fire brigades are also suffering from staff shortages and obsolete equipment and also from uncertain alarm systems. It is truly alarming that, at the moment, no one in Finland knows exactly how many people we have who are involved in the alarm. We do not have a national system in which everyone can be found. The regional government authorities have had to make a lot of these comments on the operating times. When a citizen needs a fire brigade or needs emergency treatment, most of the time it is a matter of life and death. And that is why I would have liked to ask the Minister: have you ensured that we have:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u124	Let me remind you again of the amount of one minute. — And now, Mr Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u125	Mr President! Our security environment is becoming more and more challenging in many ways, but unfortunately the Government's internal security report fails to meet the objectives that Parliament has set for it. For example, according to the police, illegal drugs are being used and sold by younger people. Drugs with mild phenomena are a growing and serious problem, especially for children and young people. Despite this, proposals have been heard from government parties that tend to make the climate more pro-drug-friendly. These proposals have included decriminalisation of drug use, legalisation of injecting rooms, and a fresh line by the Greens in favour of legalising cannabis. There is no room for a pro-drug statement; prompt action is needed to reduce and prevent drug use. We need to act decisively against drug trafficking and crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u126	Let me remind you: it will be difficult if, after each speech, we have to remind ourselves of this time of one minute. I wish we could stay in one minute. — And now, Mr Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u127	Mr President! Police are the cornerstone of internal security and the most important controller. The visible presence of the police is important both in urban areas and in sparsely populated areas, and it is important that as many accidents, accidents, crimes or other disturbances as possible can be prevented. The police play an important role both in preventing security problems and also in resolving them. When the coalition has been very sharp here today with regard to the budget of these police officers, we could look at the last 10 years: during the reign of Prime Minister Katainen, the number of police officers decreased by several hundred. Instead, it has grown since 2017, and the current government has increased the police budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u128	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u129	Madam President! Honorable Minister Ohio, as sympathetic as you are, but when you really read this report, it must be said that this is not necessarily a matter of keeping up with the situation. In fact, if the Minister of the Interior makes such a paper, it cannot seem that it has been done by the Minister of Social Affairs. Of course, when you listen to the speeches today, a lot of people have been tricked around here all the time, how important it is for the grass roots in people with such substance abuse problems and others — which is absolutely true. I fully agree that this is the case, but in its truth it is not an issue of internal security; it is indeed that social policy activity. Seriously, start being the Home Secretary of this country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u130	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u131	Madam President! Equal education is one of the pillars of internal security. Not everyone feels safe in the school of this world’s safest country. The violence experienced by teachers in their work has increased steadily in the 2010s, and bullying continues to pose a significant threat to the safety of children. This year’s school health survey shows that adult violence against children has increased by 15% in the fourth and fifth graders in two years. To build a safe school, close cooperation between schools, homes, organisations and authorities is needed. We need police officers from all over Finland who do solid school work. We need a police presence. There is a need for anti-bullying action, which calls violence violence. Involve children and young people in this safety work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u132	Congressman Kiuru, Pauli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u133	Madam President! The report mentions the word ‘trust’ around 25 times — it is said in my version that public authorities and administrations have an important There is such a contradiction here that the Government Programme states that the number of policemen will be raised to 7500, and the report repeats that the number of police officers will be raised to 7500 in accordance with the Government Programme, but the budget proposal will lead to a significant reduction in the number of police officers, which means that these objectives will not be met. From the point of view of trust, it is very damaging that the Government's report, the Government's proposal and the budget proposal are not in line. If we cannot trust these three key documents, what can we trust? Do we need a Hamster Tarvajärvi-type retraction?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u134	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u135	Madam President! The fact is that the government is now exaggerating the public sector, from 63 billion to 75 billion in public finances by 23. And even this huge amount of money is not enough to secure our well-being and our internal security, police resources. I mean, someone's wrong. Well, why isn't this enough? Well, it's because the money's being put in secondary things. You are increasing the disadvantage of immigration, energy poverty in this country and EU projects that will eventually end up in the file. There is not enough money to finance basic and core issues — that is, welfare and internal security, which are, after all, at stake. The single currency must be used only and only in the best possible way in a productive, effective way and only in a way that produces good for Finns and that enhances the well-being and internal security of Finland. Wouldn't the money be enough if things were prioritised?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u136	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u137	Mr President! The Minister mentioned the importance of cooperation between the authorities in his speech — it is the cornerstone of society’s activities. From the point of view of internal security, we have many important authorities: the police, the border authorities, the school sector, social and health, the Defence Forces, and so on. However, the interest period has shown some contradictions over the past year and a half. At airports, communication between the Border Guard and the health authorities has been completed — that is how it has been. STM, THL and sometimes also do not communicate enough with each other and publicly disagree. Does this inspire public confidence? Public authorities must act with confidence, and the diagrams should be in order when there is a so-called tough spot. Well, it's been now. My question is: how does the government intend to develop cooperation between the authorities on the basis of the experience of the corona period?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u138	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u139	Madam President! The main task of parliamentarians is to safeguard social peace, and this is also the role of the police, which is now suffering from this lack of money. That was some time ago a political faction got ground in that Mannerheimintie, and on this point police officers in the field were very critical of the police leadership that how this was allowed. At the same time, the police force is afraid to talk about the problems of immigration until they retire. So such a question: is it possible that the police department has been subjected to some sort of red-green hybrid influence?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u140	Congressman Keto-Hovinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u141	Thank you, Madam President. The Finnish legal system has a serious resource shortage that threatens legal security, which is mentioned in the present report but which is not adequately addressed in the budget debate. The resource situation of the judiciary, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Criminal Sanctions Agency and public legal aid is currently completely unsustainable. The number of pending cases is increasing, the availability of legal protection is delayed and the well-being of staff and the attractiveness of the sector is falling. The lack of resources is also reflected in the fact that numerous experienced judges and prosecutors are changing fields. This problem, which undermines the foundations of the judicial system, has been raised both in the report and unanimously in the opinions of the Committee on Legal Affairs. It requires urgent action, so I will ask the government if it intends to do something about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u142	Mr Kivisaari was also debated, followed by a minister. Congressman Kivisaari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u143	Mr President! When it comes to internal security, we often think about police, illegal immigration, extremist groups or crime. Of course, they are essential, as the report points out, but ultimately the corners of internal security are completely different. They are where the crime has not yet taken place or violence is not yet violence. President! Education and training, increased cultural capital, youth work and preventive measures can respond to a number of security risks identified in the Internal Security Report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u144	Secretary Ohio, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u145	Mr President! Thank you again for the good points. — It is good to continue with this speech by the previous representative, perhaps in response to Mr Häkkänen earlier: it is precisely a question of seeing where the problems arise in the field.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u153	This debate has taken place for an hour and we have 30 requests to speak here in the actual speeches, so we shall now move on to the list of speakers. — Mr Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u154	Madam President! Security is an important issue, and this debate, too, once again shows that it is of interest to the representatives and of interest to the citizens. The objective of keeping Finland safe is common to us. Unfortunately, a larger proportion of minor property offences remain unexplored. What does a parent say to a child whose long - awaited mountain bike disappears immediately during the first week? We'll file a crime report that won't be investigated. More than 90 percent of the police officers who responded to the police survey believe that they are at the limit of their work. What do the young men and women who are considering applying to the Police College of Applied Sciences think when they hear stories about the content of the work, the workload and how their contributions are viewed? There is too much work, there is too much responsibility, there is no time for work, there is absolutely no time for work, and it is a burden. More than 100,000 alert missions per year are left unaccounted for by the police due to a lack of resources. There are no patrols, or the patrol is on the other side and there is absolutely no other patrol or third patrol. It will be handled remotely, handled by telephone or left cold. What message does it send to the father or mother, grandma or grandpa who, in the event of domestic violence, tries to call and get help when they say we don't have a patrol, but on this phone, why don't we have a little chat and then we'll see more later? In their work, the police face more insubordination, outright violence and spitting on. Gangging, carrying weapons, knives and firearms with them, and all over it a different kind of paint. In this situation, the police would also like to support the ministry and the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u155	Congressman Keto-Hovinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u156	Madam President! Ensuring security is one of the most important tasks for the public. The promotion of security requires stability, justice, legal certainty and measures to combat security-depressing phenomena. It is important, however, to strike a balance between soft preventive action and the maintenance of harsh order and the rule of law. Unfortunately, in this report, this balance between prevention and justice is being undermined. The overpowering of preventive measures overshadows the fight against organised crime, the means of tackling bullying at school and the carrying capacity of the judicial system. A prerequisite for citizens' legal protection is a smooth and adequately resourced criminal chain from the police through the prosecution system to the judiciary and ultimately to the Criminal Sanctions Agency. The report identifies the problems of under-resourcement, the sum of unfinished cases, the burden on staff and delays in court proceedings caused by corona pandemic. I am concerned that these concerns did not materialise in the budget debate. Much has been said about police resources over the next few weeks, and rightly so, because the government's budget decisions are not enough to secure basic police activity and the number of police officers next year. The same problem pierces the entire crime chain. If an area is ignored, it leads to even worse bottlenecks elsewhere. What's the point of catching a criminal if it gets old on the DA's desk? Or what effect does it take years to obtain legal protection? Just last week I heard about a case, a violent crime against a child, which eventually took four years to get to the district court. Delays in proceedings have been highlighted in national law enforcement, but also in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Last year, the Parliamentary Ombudsman also paid particular attention to the adequate resources of the authorities, since the fundamental rights of people will not be realised if it becomes more difficult to carry out statutory tasks. In his report, the Parliamentary Ombudsman also raised compensation payments for delays in proceedings, the total amount of which has risen from the previous year. There are many reasons why the crime chain is congested: the increase in the number of cases, the increase in exceptionally difficult and widespread cases and the scarcity of resources. Mr President! Another issue I am particularly concerned about is the growth and internationalisation of organised crime. It is dealt with very superficially in this report. In practice, the fight against organised crime has been neglected during the current parliamentary term. There were no mention of this in the Government Programme and the mandate of the working group set up this year will not end until after the next elections. At the same time, the strengthening of the status of organised crime in our prisons is already clearly reflected in the deterioration of prison security. In addition, international trade and sales platforms allow private customers to order directly from domestic and foreign operators such as weapons, explosives and drugs. The increase in the number of packages poses a major challenge to these controls. The number of drug offences is also growing significantly, and according to the report it is also reflected in the number of property offences. Congestion in the criminal chain is also reflected in the low clearance rate and the high limitation percentage of property offences. Property crime is one of the most common forms of crime, and its failure to investigate it undermines citizens' confidence in justice. Mr President! In recent decades, the well-being of young people has improved, the well-being experienced has increased. But there's a fact that not everyone's doing well. There is loneliness, there is exclusion, substance abuse, lack of education and work, crime and mental health problems. During the time of the interest rate, problems have piled up for those who were already having difficulties. We need to be better able to help those who need help and support, at the earlier stage, the better. However, prevention is not always successful, and the problems can pile up badly. Young people commit crimes and can do bad things. In such situations, the police and the authorities must intervene and have a clear approach to what happens next, who answers and what action is needed. No one will benefit from good and comprehensive plans if implementation is fragmented. As a final speaker, I hope that all aspects of citizens' security will be taken into account in a balanced way and that their promotion will be ensured in addition to adequate resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u157	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u158	Mr President! Safety probably means a lack of danger and threats, as well as subjective experience of their absence. As a feeling of insecurity, it is usually related to the unpredictability of future events. A person often feels insecure if the threats of the near future are difficult to predict or difficult to understand. An example of such a situation is the early stages of the interest rate. I guess you can still say that Finland is a safe country. The paradox is, of course, that more and more of us are experiencing increasing insecurity. Of course, the goal must be to make everyone feel safe. Although it may sound like a pink dream, the goal is absolutely right. Finland’s security environment has certainly also changed. Climate change, social inequality, loneliness and a sense of non-participation, threats to the digital cyber world or a crisis-sensitive economic system are complex challenges, the consequences of which can be surprising and unforeseeable in a networked world. The feeling of insecurity increases as the world appears to many as a chaotic mess, where the course of one’s life is becoming increasingly difficult. President! The development and training of skills reduces exclusion and unemployment, which exposes security risks. That is why I would like to see the role of the education and training system being strongly highlighted when it comes to internal security as a key player and a key cooperation on which our future and our security rest to a large extent. The importance of culture and physical activity as contributors to human well-being is also very important from the point of view of the prevention of security threats. President! I would also like to point out, as a concrete risk, that the burden and fatigue of day-care managers, principals and teachers is causing a serious spiral to the fact that, in the front line of the preventive field, operators, those on whom society as a whole is confronted, are unable to cope. This is a serious risk. The violence they have experienced or the threat of it has also increased. That unfortunate fact is, in the end, too little talk is being made. It goes without saying that investments in support of families, child protection and school student care are essential in identifying problems for children and young people and in preventing nausea. These are all the most important aspects of internal security. President! Finally, internal security rests on human rights, the rule of law, democracy, stability, prosperity, equality and equality. These are big words, but in the end, they contain all the essentials. In the end, internal security depends on how great our will is to act on these principles and how great our will is to be on the move in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u159	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u160	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — Mr Junnila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u161	Mr President! The National Institute for Health and Welfare (THL) examined the share of satisfied people in the safety of their area of residence until 2016. The THL indicator thus measured the population’s experience in the safety of its residential area. However, this statistics will no longer be updated, even though the sense of safety is important in many ways for well-being, and in particular in the neighbouring country Sweden's examples of deterioration in internal security, segregation and direct ghettoisation and every night of car flares are known to all those who follow the news and who live outside the ideological bubble. In Finland, the same trend has intensified especially in Helsinki, Tampere, Turku and Oulu. Organized crime and ganging are on the increase. For a long time, the Central Crime Police have been investigating the organisation of immigrant-dominated criminal groups. According to Krp, a large number of different donkeys, such as swords, bars, sticks, knives and firearms, have been seized from the youth. In May, Krp reported that the number of violent crimes committed by minors in Helsinki increased by nearly 40 per cent in the early part of the year. Why do you think this is? This is well known by the Minister of the Interior, Mr Ohio, who was so praised by Mrs Holopainen. It is not climate change, it is not hate speech, it is not a non-binary gender identity, nor is it any other emotional state that is central to the green left identity. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I would like to quote five replies from this questionnaire, which therefore dealt with security: ‘I do not know whether there is actual gang delinquency,but very young people,mostly groups of foreign origin, are committing robbery and violence. This trend is clearly visible.’ “In particular, young immigrants continue to experience a International gangs are also looking for more footholds in Finland.” Third quote: ‘In the capital region,the number of gangs,in particular immigrants and asylum seekers,is striking. In addition, younger and younger Finns, even in Finland, are starting to commit robberies and assaults in the name of the so-called gang.” One reply mentioned this: ‘I have been working with foreigners for ten years. Gangging is evident among young, second generation immigrants. Frustration and feeling of outsiders lead to it.” As a last quote: ‘The ganging of young people with an immigrant background hasincreased rapidly. Within a few years, this ganging up will be visible in the field of professional crime. Gangs become different intelligence and are increasingly linked to criminal activities and reports.” Mr President! Jonne Rinne, Chairman of the Federation of Finnish Police Organisations, has summed up what this is all about. President Rinne has said that what is happening in Sweden has landed in Finland — i.e. ‘is’,along the river. Mr President! In itself, there is some time gone by to discuss here how mistakes can be avoided if the milk has already fallen. The direction of development is clear, but to combat it requires more than the guilt of ordinary Finns or, in particular, what has been done here today, the continued extension of the concept of security to include all problems that have absolutely nothing to do with internal security.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u162	Thank you. — Mr Mattila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u163	Mr President! The report on internal security in our hands deals very extensively and from different perspectives with how Finland and its residents can mentally, physically and economically. The experience of safety is personal at individual level. It is affected by the situations that a person encounters in his everyday life. These situations, in turn, are often linked to the person’s age, gender, origin, health, mother tongue, residence, socio-economic status and other determining factors. It is gratifying that Finland is at the forefront of internal security in the world, measured by many indicators. This is largely based on the following factors: Finland has a long experience of strong social peace and social cohesion. This is explained, among other things, by the long tradition of democracy, the social structures that support equal opportunities, regardless of origin, and the trust in civil servants and institutions. For example, we take it for granted that the police can be trusted and that the police are incorruptible. Compared to many other countries in the world, the position of the police in Finland is strong and stable. Year after year, it is also a favourite for girls and boys. Internal security is also reinforced by the fact that Finns are enthusiastically active in various organisations and associations that promote a sense of belonging and participation in the group. For its part, social peace and stability are fostered by the fact that Finland has had a tradition of resolving social tensions by peaceful and official means for decades. Various demonstrations are legally permitted and are mostly peaceful and do not involve crime or rioting. Mr President! One of the main threats to Finland’s internal security is exclusion, social nausea and multiple problems, which accumulate in certain individuals and groups. Internal security will improve as the situation improves for these population groups. In the teacher’s work, I saw the importance of tackling the issue of the prevention of overgenerational exclusion. With the third generation of family thinking that work is not part of their lives and that the various benefits provided by our social security system are doing just fine, it is challenging to influence the thinking of the young people behind it. However, this would be important, as the level of safety experienced and measured in different ways by vulnerable groups is lower than the average for the population. The key to breaking the overgeneration is supporting parenthood and children’s survival through cross-sectoral cooperation. With my own school experience, I can confirm that most children and young people are doing well and rarely commit crimes. Repeated and serious crime seems to accumulate among a small number of children and young people. The sad thing is that children and young people who commit a lot of crimes are often also victims of crime themselves. Crime, trauma and abuse in childhood and youth, such as domestic violence or bullying, increase the risk of committing crimes and becoming a victim even in adulthood. It is therefore essential to be able to address this phenomenon with sufficient force at the earliest possible stage before damage occurs. Mr President! The interest period has also had implications for internal security. The majority of citizens have trusted the authorities and the Finnish Government in dealing with the corona crisis. However, various surveys of citizens have shown that many Finns are concerned about coronavirus pandemic and its effects. It is children and young people who are the ones who are most concerned, how extraordinary time has affected them. It is known that for months in times of crisis, parents have also been burdened, when the internal problems of families have become more acute according to official estimates. At this stage, it is only possible to make indicative estimates of the impact of the corona months on the different population groups. Life experience seems to have an impact on resilience and crisis resistance. It is therefore a good thing that the government has allocated funding in its amending budgets to repair corona damage, especially for children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u164	Thank you. — Mr Kinnunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u165	Mr President! Finland is still one of the safest countries in the world. The poor developing country developed into one of the happiest in the world, with the desire to keep everything involved, everyone, regardless of their background, has been able to go to school and study as far as zeal and lavish is concerned. Social cohesion and democracy and trust in civil servants contribute to maintaining a stable society. Involvement in organizations brings experience of participation, belonging to a group. According to the Internal Security Report, over 90 per cent of people living in Finland consider their personal safety to be good. They feel safe here. Safety is a personal feeling. It is confidence that nothing bad will happen and if it does, there will be protectors. It is necessary for the police to be visible in both the city and the countryside. Security must be seen. Attention is drawn to the fact that less than 10 percent do not feel safe in their lives. The feeling of insecurity has increased, for example, because of crimes and violence caused by gangbanging and substance abuse. Problems don't come from nothing. We should address the root causes of insecurity and treat them and turn them over. Mr President! The main threats to security relate to exclusion and inequality. According to the report, exclusion begins when the indiscretion accumulates. Low levels of education, long-term unemployment and problems with livelihood expose people to exclusion. When you find yourself in a situation where opportunities to influence your own life are falling, there may be a negative spiral. Exclusion creates safety problems which continue to accelerate exclusion. In particular, we must overcome generation-to-generation exclusion. Identification of the threats will enable us to prevent their emergence. Medicines and means are known: equal education, finding meaningful work, family well-being and supporting it, prevention of substance abuse, promotion of intoxicant abuse, effective integration, health promotion, community building. With education, education and education, youth work and all preventive work, we respond to the threats to the internal security of our country. A safe Finland lives that every child and young person who grows up here can walk on a smooth school path and find their strength and place in society. For example, it is important that the government has extended compulsory education. It is a measure to prevent exclusion when everything is involved. Strong education also provides tools to combat modern threats, such as information impact. Everyone today needs the ability to critically evaluate everything they read and face. It is a civic skill that must be learned on the school path. Mr President! The threats must be combated on a broad scale. The role of the police as a security authority is central. The resources of the police must be taken care of. They should be increased if new tasks are to be carried out. It should be remembered that this government has increased police budgets. The number of police officers has also increased in recent years. When money is not enough, the police's multiple field of duty should be reviewed again. The conditions for action by other security-promoting authorities must also be ensured. Forest fires in Kalajoki show that voluntary rescue activities are needed, for example. I welcome the fact that the Government Programme states that contract fire brigades:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u166	Thank you. — Mr Viljanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u167	Mr President! Finland is the safest country in the world. We have heard it many times today in this Chamber, and it is a fact that we can really be very proud of, but equally true that people's feeling of insecurity has grown in recent years. A sense of safety is always a subjective experience. It comes from trust in society and other people, the experience of inclusion, the control of one’s own life, financial security and stability, and the predictability of life in general. It's an awareness that I'll get help when I need it. The rapid change in society is likely to increase the sense of personal insecurity, but, on a wider scale, the growing experience of insecurity in people can also jeopardise trust in society. I'm sure none of us would want that. Work and decisions must be taken against this in order to maintain and promote security and confidence. The internal security report now before us broadly describes the state of internal security in our society and the issues that we need to take care of in order to continue to guarantee security experience for everyone. Of course, care for security requires the ability of the authorities to act. Over the last few days, the debate has focused on the resources of the police and their adequacy. The field of action of the police and other security authorities has changed enormously and is becoming increasingly challenging. The field of action has become more complex and enlarged. At the same time, operating costs and ict costs have increased and the need for fleet renewal has increased. It's not enough that we have cops. They must also have healthy work facilities and appropriate equipment. Safety at work must also be taken care of. Police resources are an issue that speaks every year. That is what I, as a new Member of Parliament, have learned in the Administrative Committee. A more sustainable solution and adequate financial resources should be found gradually to ensure that this is done. In Finland, multi-authority cooperation is at a good level and has a good and long tradition. PTR cooperation between the police, Customs and border guards works well. There is extensive cooperation between police, rescue and social and health services. The role of the Defence Forces in providing auxiliary services is also central. In Finland, trust in internal security actors is high and this confidence must be maintained. Only through extensive cooperation will we be able to secure rapid assistance in emergency situations and prepare for various threats such as terrorism or the threat of growing and internationalising organised crime. That is why international government work is also increasingly important. Mr President! Have we put enough effort into internal security from the point of view of preventing inequality? Have we, as decision-makers, been sufficiently effective in preventing the development of exclusion, so that our actions do not crowd anyone out? Have we invested enough in low-threshold services in substance abuse and mental health services? Have we succeeded in combating violent crime? Why is Finnish insecurity hiding in homes? Why have drug use and deaths increased? Why have nearly half of Finnish women experienced physical and sexual violence? Although the situation in terms of safety in general is good, we have a lot to do and a lot to improve. I was already talking about drugs today, and I am going to say a few words about them here too, although I also received a few comments on it that they are not part of this issue of internal security. Intoxicants are central to crime, especially organised crime, accidents, domestic violence, accidents and so on. When the need for and supply of substance abuse treatment is far apart, there are significant disadvantages, no matter what the case may be. In terms of internal security, it is also important how we deal with our substance abuse policy. We need more accessible services, more resources and skills, and a change in attitudes towards substance abuse problems, especially those with substance abuse problems. Many times we forget the weak when it comes to internal security. I want us to pay particular attention to how we keep them all involved. Inequality must not increase, and in particular safety inequalities must not increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u168	Thank you. — Mr Soinikoski, please. Gone. — Congressman Kiviranta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u169	Mr President! The overall picture of internal security is influenced by many factors. The report states that global challenges, such as climate change, migration and pandemics, affect our operating environment as independent phenomena and exacerbate the impact of the developments already identified. Global problems will inevitably be reflected in us too, for we are not isolated from the rest of the world but in close contact with the world around us. Finland is a country of high technology, increased well-being and free flow of information. Technology improves safety in many ways, for example in transport, where the safety characteristics of cars are constantly evolving. Technological developments have made the processes of public authorities more efficient and efficient, thus helping to strengthen security. At the same time, however, the increased use of technology has led to new types of security threats, such as information security and the mismanagement of sensitive or personal data. Cybercrime is a growing problem and it requires both resources and determination to fight it. Mr President! The report states that exclusion, social nausea and multiple problems are still one of the greatest threats to Finland’s internal security. These problems are the root causes of the deterioration in safety, which must be tackled decisively. People in desperate situations are highly likely to pose danger both to themselves and to others. The earlier the problems can be addressed by comprehensive cooperation between the authorities and by improving welfare and health services, the better.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u170	Thank you. — Representative Elo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u171	Mr President! This internal security report, which we have discussed and discussed today, is based on a broad concept of security, which takes into account not only national developments but also the effects of global crises on Finland's security. As has often been said here today, Finland is, according to studies, the safest country in the world. Although a large part of Finland feels safe, we cannot guarantee safety for everyone. One of the factors contributing to insecurity, on which there has been much talk today, is the development of segregation, which is also progressing at a worrying rate in Finland. For example, poverty among families with children turned to growth even before the corona crisis, and this has made the situation even worse. Although much of the Finnish children are feeling better than before, there is a small group who are feeling worse. We cannot afford the future to be visible to children or young people without a view. A lack of vision feeds a sense of insecurity. We think that we are a model country for equality, where everyone has the same opportunities. However, for example, a child of an academic parent ends up studying at a university almost seven times more often than a non-academic child. Mr President! Disorders, accidents and crimes are unevenly distributed among the population. All too often they are met by those who are already in the most vulnerable position. Exclusion, nausea and the accumulation of problems are among the greatest threats to Finland’s internal security. Finland’s internal security policy is therefore primarily based on the prevention of the challenges and threats posed by these problems. This is a humanely sensible, important and economically sound, well-founded starting point. Our Home Secretary, Ohio, has often said that an effective and successful social policy and education policy are ultimately the best security policy. In this respect, municipal work is absolutely essential — how much we invest in early childhood education and education, whether children have the opportunity to engage in activities and whether low-threshold support services are sufficiently available for those who need them. We must ensure the ability of municipalities and cities to provide quality basic services, early childhood education and education, even after the social welfare reform, Mr President! Finland is the second most violent country in the European Union for women. Nearly half of Finnish women have experienced some form of physical or sexual violence when they are 15 years old. About one third of women have experienced physical or sexual violence from their current or former partner. The Koronapandem has been closed down by women who experience violence in close relationships with the perpetrators of violence in their homes. Domestic violence in Finland grew by 12 per cent in January to June compared with the previous year. We must be determined to continue the fight against violence in our close relationships. Mr President! Global crises, such as climate change and the loss of nature, already have a strong impact on our security and create future threats. A recent international survey shows that 75% of young people between the ages of 16 and 25 find the future frightening. Forty-two per cent of Finnish young people hesitate to have children due to the climate crisis. These also contribute to the sense of security. In Finland, extreme weather phenomena will be seen as floods and heavy rains on the one hand, and forest fires caused by drought on the other. In these situations, the expertise and preparedness of security actors is necessary. Mr President! Finally, a word on the number of police officers. Concerns about police sufficiency have been shared across government-opposition boundaries. It is important that the police have sufficient resources to solve both the traditional forms of crime, such as property crime, and the fight against new forms of crime, such as cybercrime and trafficking in human beings. This government has increased the resources of the police. It has been discussed a lot today — we all have a lot to do in that area. As the report shows, internal security is a very broad and complex entity and must be dealt with as such. The number of police officers alone will not improve safety, even though the sufficient number of police officers is an integral part of a sustainable security policy. The best security policy is to ensure that mutual trust and social peace are maintained, that inequalities can be reversed and that everyone is involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u172	Thank you. — Mr Peltokangas, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u173	Mr President! In 2017, the Parliamentary Administrative Committee issued unanimous guidance with a view to this internal security report under discussion. The bundle in our hand is not in any way in accordance with the mandate — incomprehensible indifference, overstepping the committee, or total incompetence. The internal security report before us has failed and has taken up time with ideological outpouring. It is a vile attempt to steer parliamentary policy until 2030. When told in plain language, this is the Finnish whipping but European Union, which is saturated with the green left of the government, and harmful migration, as well as the direct understatement of real problems and threats. The comments and proposals for amendments from the opposition to the parliamentary observatory set up for the report are shining by their absence. I myself was appointed to the monitoring group, and I know in practice how this report was completed. There was no record of the totally different opinion of the Finns on the subject. We would have liked to have followed the unanimous guidance given by the Administrative Committee. Because of the lack of guidance, we cannot commit ourselves to this miserable act. The participation of the Monitoring Group in the preparatory work was merely apparent and the work and time devoted to it was completely wasted. I therefore believe that, in terms of rationalising the time spent by the representatives, the corresponding dwindles will be put to an end and that the government will make a proposal for them, which will then be dealt with in the same way as the normal procedure. Mr President! When talking about asylum seekers, the report is a typical example of how root causes of problems are not recognised or addressed. We do not want to understand the fact that the failure of integration is not the fault of integration measures or attitudes in the host country, but is the result of cultural and religious differences, and nothing virtuous would do otherwise. Women's freedom, equality and equality are not part of a political Islamic culture which in itself increases sexual and other violence against women and girls in the West. For example: This is not mentioned at all in the report as a threat. Sweeping under the carpet of this truth tends to cause divisions, and reactions from the native population are understandablely increasing. According to the steep doctrines of Islam, Western countries and Western democracy are completely forbidden to them if their outcome does not serve Islam and the aim is not to mainstream Islam. Excessive integration and fraternization with so-called infidels are particularly punishable by women, such as the honour killings of Stone Age cultures. Mr President! Calling illegal people undocumented does not inspire confidence among the public. The government itself is instigating confrontation by its actions. A person who has received a negative asylum decision is illegal in the country and e.g. In the light of what happened in Turku Square, there is a real threat to internal security. If the government were to tackle these root causes objectively and look for a solution other than by adding money and bypasses, then there could be considerable progress in this area, but for ideological reasons the government lacks the will to solve the problems. With regard to the human rights of foreign violent offenders and rapists, the government is making a fuss, but where are the human rights of the victims and the relatives of the victims? The Government, introduce the detention proposed by the Finns of Finland during the asylum procedure immediately, and examples of multicultural idealism such as the terrorist act in Turku and so many other horrors can no longer be found in Finland. We have presented the tools. Why do you refuse to use them for the safety of our people? Mr President! Because of the total failure of the European Union's immigration and external borders policy and the actions of our own government, our social peace and democracy are on the road to a weak future, and this government is, to the greatest extent, guilty of what it is doing with its mouth on its fingers. You call for security, but you don't fund security providers. The police are about to enter into negotiations, and you are standing in your head as a prisoner of your ideology. Of course, it is difficult to see, let alone dig it out, the idea of a red-green ideology with its own eyes. It's always not in your own mirror. I could say that our government is guided by a clear red-green ideological hybrid effect. Or are your irresponsible actions merely a universal record of multicultural virtue? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u174	Thank you. — Representative Eskelinen absent, representative Laakso absent, representative Kilpi absent, representative Marttinen, Matias absent. — Mr Lundén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are dealing with the Government's report on internal security — an issue that is very important. Good speeches have been made here today, but I would like to briefly add a few more points of view, which are represented by a small-town merchant who is also a son of the police. Yes, it is extremely frustrating for everyone when the police are not seen or heard, and this is not because of the police, but because of decisions. Years ago, the reform of the state administration abolished local police services in the provinces, although the Ministry’s plans on paper promised otherwise. The reform focused police resources on larger cities. Large parts of the provinces and major agglomerations remained only at the level of random surveillance attacks and urgent alerts. This procedure eradicated local police expertise, the preventive presence of the police and direct customer service for local residents. At the same time, the reform took the local police, lost and found goods offices and the daily customer service point with their license services to the far centres. The police can no longer be reached by telephone on week-to-day advisory matters. Mr President! In the 21st budget and the spending line, EUR 4.1 million has been set aside to strengthen police resources. The increase is intended to target in particular the fight against trafficking in human beings, financial crime and online crime, as well as surveillance and alert activities, particularly in sparsely populated areas. Everyone may wonder that when 4.1 million is divided into all of that, it is probably not enough money to get many police officers into a few areas to patrol. I consider all of these important, but the amount is certainly too small, and it is, as everyone in this Chamber knows. Mr President! There's no criminal liability. Even the pre-trial investigation periods for basic crimes have been severely congested. Congestion and overload are still ongoing in prosecution and judicial proceedings. Years from the actual event, criminal proceedings are a travesty of the rule of law. The increase in the number of foreign suspects has continued to increase even in serious crimes. It has been found that it is worth coming to Finland to commit crimes further away due to a lax process and unrealised criminal liability. For example, if the offenders are not able to obtain stolen goods for seizure, the hand of the voud is not outside Finland's borders and the damage is not always recovered. The fact that the proportion of foreign offenders, with their interpretations, significantly stretches the process at all levels and is considerablely expensive has also been overlooked. Mr President! Just a few more words about internal security in shops, which have a huge number of contacts from both entrepreneurs and their employees: I have spoken about these issues here before and I will continue to speak as long as I have confidence in this House. Shoplifting and shoplifting are on the increase. I find it completely incomprehensible that the same people come from day to day, shoplifting or stealing, among other things, from grocery stores without getting punished for doing things. It is estimated that theft and shoplifting will cost some EUR 550 million annually. However, no money replaces the mental condition that a person experiences at the cashier’s store, for example, when he comes on duty to rob, for example, with a knife. Unfortunately, this happens every day somewhere in Finland. And the convictions of the robbers are completely ridiculous if they even get convictions, because everyone knows what the resources of the police and the prosecution are at present. I understand that there are no changes to these important issues in this report, which I very much regret. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u176	Thank you. — Mr Jukka Mäkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u177	Mr President! According to a report from the Police Board, the Finnish police budget for next year is likely to be EUR 30 million due to the budget decision of the government sitting in deficit. Last month, the chief of police pleaded for the security of police resources. Director General Kolehmainen expressed his concern about a deterioration in security if the police budget is not raised to the necessary level. I believe that it has become clear to all of us here that the budget proposed by the government is not going to be sufficient and will not provide sufficient security for the police. The government estimates that the cut-off line for the government budget proposal will lead to a reduction of up to 450 person-years. With these cuts, the government is now undermining internal security, which is one of the most important functions of society. How can this be? Mr President! In real life, that is, outside this house, many citizens have been wondering for a long time where their tax money goes when the Green Left government is constantly inventing new expenditure items. With the adoption of the EU support package, the government will pay the debts of other EU countries in Finland. In addition, the government is eagerly increasing immigration that is harmful to the Finnish economy. This government spends 1200 million dollars a year on development aid. This government wants to facilitate the entry of cheap labour, when in reality it is, for the most part, the reunification of families, i.e. the mothers, children and spouses of refugees previously admitted to our country, that is, the same group as the original refugees. All this government policy is taking place at the same time that the most important services of our society are falling apart for our own citizens. According to the police government, the concrete consequences of the austerity measures against the police will be reflected in all police activities. A deficit of up to EUR 30 million affects, among other things, the visibility and the timeliness of the police, especially in sparsely populated areas. The effects will also be reflected throughout the country in the control of public order and security, traffic control and criminal investigations. Mr President! The Finnish police have publicly stated that the government's budget proposal will not be sufficient. Did the government react in any way to this disclosure? In order for us to continue living here in our so-called birdhouse, the police need their resources. The question is, whose expert opinions have the government this time relied on in connection with this police spending limits decision. Apparently not the experts of the Finnish police. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u178	Thank you. — Mr Kalli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u179	Mr President! Ensuring a safe everyday life for every Finnish citizen throughout the country is one of the most important tasks of politics. The safety of everyday life consists of numerous pieces that are closely intertwined. It is built on a whole of police, emergency centers, rescuers, border guards and other authorities that together secure people’s daily lives. Safety is also strengthened by work, education and a sense of social inclusion. It's health and well-being. It is a functional, secure social infrastructure, roads, electricity networks and information networks. It is a feeling that personal information is safe and is not misused. It's security on the street, online, inside the walls of your own home. It is a close international cooperation to prevent and respond to common global threats. Mr President! Safety is also a feeling: the feeling that you are safe, that you don’t have to worry about getting help when you need it. Security must also be visible from the outside. In this context, I will return to the debate on the police force, which was already in the Chamber during the day. The city centre requires the police's resources to be secured. As stated in the report, our security environment is constantly changing and the work of the police is becoming increasingly demanding. In order to ensure safety, it is essential that the police have good operational conditions throughout Finland. The city centre has long been concerned about the sufficient number of police officers and their presence. The number of policemen began to fall drastically even during the coalition - led reign of Katainen. The collapse was not reversed until midway through the Sipilä government, from which the number of policemen has been steadily increased. Of course, this has required annual increases in appropriations. Mr President! This government has financed the police more than any government in ten years, which is right and necessary. As a result, the number of police officers has increased year by year, despite the fact that there is still a long way to go. However, the police have now expressed the concern that the funds now being proposed will no longer lead politicians through the party field to the objective of further increasing the number of policemen. It should therefore be clarified why the increase in appropriations is no longer correlated with the number of police officers. Why isn't there enough money to go to the airport? This needs to be clarified, because it is the will of the decision-makers. That is why this now needs to be examined in depth, in close cooperation with the ministries and the Police Government. You can't ignore the problem. The police must be present in people’s everyday lives, both in cities and in rural areas. Mr President! To conclude, my concern is about the growing nausea of children and young people, which is also closely linked to safety or, rather, to insecurity and feelings of insecurity. While we need to be able to provide help to these children and young people, we need to be better able to catch the root causes of nausea. Mr Kinnunen has just spoken excellently about this, and I share every word about it. Prevention is also the best and most effective option in this area. This is something that we should all work on together in this Chamber, with a long-term perspective over the years of government. Mr President! Finland will also be considered a safe country in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u180	Thank you. — Representative Kaleva, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u181	Mr President! Security is the fundamental right of everyone in Finland. We need to be able to move out in peace. Violent street gangs and illegal residents commit serious crimes. Young people's homicides are showing a rising trend. They don't respect the police. We need to get these phenomena under control. The root causes need to be addressed: the segregation of residential areas and the emergence of social problems. Incentives for illegal stay must be dismantled. If you receive a negative asylum decision, you must leave the country. The same applies to integration. It is an individual duty, not a state or a city. It is very damaging if those who have come into the country are not integrated but form so-called parallel societies, where there are completely different views of what is good and what is bad, what is right and what is wrong. Unfortunately, a phenomenon has already nested here in Helsinki, where gangs of young people with a large immigrant background scare and rob their peers and others. These gangs carry knives and baseball bats, and people have already died as a result of acts of violence. This phenomenon must not be allowed to become established in Helsinki or elsewhere in Finland. Gang violence is not due to racism, discrimination or lack of social security. They are the result of a poor immigration policy, which allows too many unadaptable people to enter the country and whose consequences are reflected in a very bad way in our neighbouring country, Sweden. This cannot continue. It is still possible to avoid Sweden's mistakes. Both tough and soft responses are needed to solve the problems. By means of hard countermeasures, I mean that when a crime or an act of violence has taken place, it must not be ignored or underestimated by talking about bullying at school or ‘incriminating’. Violence must always be taken seriously, even when the offender is not yet responsible in criminal matters at the age of 15. The investigation of acts of violence must always involve a police authority, including when the suspect is still underage. The involvement of the police shows the perpetrator that society is taking this issue seriously. The cycle must be cut right from the start, and it requires cooperation from all the authorities. In addition to the police, at least teachers, principals, youth workers and parents of young people — both perpetrators and victims — must be involved. We also need soft countermeasures. Substantial additional resources are needed for the activities of the police, rescue services, youth work and child protection. We must provide young people with the opportunity to build their own identity through something other than gangs, violence or fundamentalist religious interpretation. We must offer young people opportunities to be part of society and effectively prevent the formation of so-called parallel societies. Local police and youth workers must be located in problem areas. You don't want to be spared here. Above all, it's about the future. Finland can still avoid the problems of Sweden, Denmark, France and other countries by reforming its asylum system in a preventive way and following the example of sensible countries. The Coalition Party has repeatedly highlighted both hard and soft ways of solving problems. It is vitally important that a police authority is involved from an early stage. This sends out a clear message that the law must be respected and that crimes can have serious consequences regardless of age or background. However, the government is now taking a different path. It is necessary to increase the police budget by EUR 30 million to the minimum necessary and to secure the resources of the security authorities and those involved in the crime prevention chain. Soft action alone will not solve the problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u182	Thank you. — Representative Pirttäähti, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u183	Mr President! Today we have had a good discussion and use of an excellent language and perhaps a slightly different language from this report on the internal security of our Government. Indeed, we must guarantee the safety of everyday life in Finland everywhere, and the starting point in this report is quite far from being related and based mainly on anticipation. Of course, a sense of security is important to us, and that experience is personal to each and should be equal whether we are in the city or in the countryside. The security of everyday life in rural areas may be that we care about the neighbor, but we also need to know how close it is to rescue and how health care services are played. Of course, these are now being reformed, and time will tell us which way they are going. As Mr Kinnunen has just mentioned, there is a great deal of our everyday security here, and there are many different things involved, such as exclusion and related issues. This may have been called a social policy report. That is part of it, and it should be, that is, how we build society, how we keep all people together in the construction of Finland, that is part of it. Then there are these hard everyday security priorities, as has been well mentioned here, such as the resources of the police, Customs and Border Guard, and how our society's structures remain in order. It is estimated that there will be a reduction in the police budget: at least 10.5 million more were put in the budget debate, and the budget is that it is at last year's level. The number of police officers is rising, and the report requires that the number of police officers should be brought up to the level of 8,200 over time. We do indeed have empty police facilities in Finland at the moment, and the visibility of the police in areas such as sparsely populated areas would be very important. Among other things, there is a police sign in Mänttä-Vilppula, my home town, but there are no posts in that building. It's random cops, and there's a few other things going on. It would be very important for our police to gain visibility on different sides. Mr President! In today's debate, perhaps a little less has been said about the rescue operation, but I strongly involve all of our volunteers and the operation of our contract fire brigades. According to this report, we have approximately 15350 staff from the fire service, and as is seen in this report, about 500 people should raise it. It is an interesting challenge for us how we in sparsely populated areas can involve young men in the activities of vpk and contract fire brigades. For a lot of people, the job goes up. So these people, who volunteer, including Vapepa and the SPR, work with their hearts in the countryside but equally in the cities. More and more cities are also involved in voluntary activities and contract fire brigades. The importance of contract fire brigades is great when one considers the total contribution of some 30,000 people to maintaining the security of our society. I myself am concerned about the way in which, for example, the Salvation Act will record it. It would now be possible to correct, as is the case with this government record, that the operating conditions of the fire brigades as a partner of the rescue services will be strengthened, also recognising their current and future challenges and specific characteristics. This entry can indeed be redeemed in conjunction with the reform of the Rescue Act. There was talk of a police deficit. Similarly, the Ministry of the Interior has estimated that the rescue department itself would need a level increase of approximately EUR 80 million, and also the Finnish Contract Fire Departments. The Federation has estimated that some 50 million should be added to that side, and a total of some 130 million would also need to develop training, equipment and the operating environment there, where fire brigades can function well. Mr President! The report is comprehensive, extensive and good.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u184	Thank you. — Ledamot Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u185	Mr President, ärade talman! Finland är i många avsenden världens tryggaste land, tillika också världens lyckligaste land. Men trots det finns det många manniskor och Grupper i vårt samhälle som inte alls känner sig trygga i vårt land, och de är valddigt många. Ofta är ju den bull trygghetskänslan valddigt personlig. Vi måste bekämpa utslagning, utanförskap och marginalising effectsom vi vet att de är centrala hot också för den inre säkerheten. Här i den raussalen har många saker som tangerar den inre säkerheten lyfts upp i dag, och åtgärderna är många. Det krävs många olika åtgärder, och mycket har focuserat kring polisens resurser. För egen del vill jag lyfta fram barn och unga, som alltså är vår framtid. Även om majoriteten av barn och unga i Finland mår valdigt bra så finns det bland you give en liten grupp med barn och unga bland vilka grov brottslighet är återkommande. Barn och unga som begår brott är ofta själva också offerer. Om deras bakgrund vet man att trauman, mobbing och familevåld ökar risken för att begå brott.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u186	Mr President! The Internal Security Report is currently under discussion and is more than ever in order. The world is increasingly troubled today, and we Finns and the Finnish Parliament must ensure that: Finland will remain a safe country to live in for all of us Finns we live here. And that sense of security must then be felt by the whole country, Mr President. Unfortunately, there have already been some segregations, and there are areas where, for example, access to police services quickly is impossible today. Its eastern Finns have especially experienced, and the same applies to Kainuu, Lapland, municipalities in a sparsely populated area. That is what I am very concerned about, and even though we are talking about fine words about the fact that the police are serving the entire territory of the country equally — and although there is certainly such an effort — when you look at what has been the result of this development, the police are retreating to central places. For example, in our home country of North Karelia it is very visible: yes, there are a huge number of police officers in the Joensuu region, but access to peripheral areas when necessary is extremely difficult. There are cases where the police were necessarily needed and just never received it. The police have been nowhere near, and it sometimes takes an hour to get there, and the waiting hour for a person in distress is hopelessly long. At least the emergency services are working, and the ambulances are running. There are also minor problems, but, fortunately, regionally, these issues have been balanced by wise planning. Mr President, I would like to highlight the risk of an increase in the level of one feeling of insecurity, and that is the poor functioning of social and health care in some areas. Very many old people today feel great fear of being left untreated if they get help when they need it. That ambulance is an integral part of it. For a long person living alone, it seems extraordinarily long if there is an emergency and there is no help even on the phone. Of course, it is not possible for such an old man to move on his own feet. I would like Finnish society to address this problem in different ways, because access to health services must be accessible to everyone, and so that we can then provide that high-quality service, whether in Helsinki or Utsjoki. There can't be a difference. The social reform is on its way and is currently being planned. During its design, we have to do the work so that we can get those services everywhere in Finland, no matter what the postal code is. Cooperation between the police, Customs and Raja in the municipalities of the border region works very well. The authorities cooperate well, and if, for example, the police patrol does not make it there, then often the Border Guard has been commissioned to carry out its alert with style. I know in my municipality of residence a few cases from last summer that this was the case, and no one has complained. It's been a good game. There is now only the danger that, after so many posts have been cut off from the Border Guard — which has been severely cut in recent years, it will be said in the last ten years — this cooperation has also become somewhat thinr. Hopefully it will be noticed and kept at a good level of staff. The transport network, Mr President, is a source of insecurity which many may not be aware of. The condition of the lower road network is today in such a state, gravel roads especially that simply... Let me give you an example: Last spring, when it suddenly snowed, in Ilomants, certain areas were behind a roadless road, when snow fell a lot and unfortunately the current road maintenance system did not give in to the fact that they had been taken care of. Some areas were hit, and a private contractor then opened the roads when the service of society did not reach that point. This can't happen. Let this go to the Minister for Transport to say that it is necessary to take measures to put the lower road network in order. Yes, ambulances and rescue services have to get there and people have to get to work, and it can't be the weather, it can't be the snow crime, it can't be the exceptionally harsh conditions. Volunteering works very well in Finland, and in this context I would like to thank all those volunteers who maintain many activities in this country, so that people are reasonably safe to live. I know that in my municipality of Ilomants, for example, when the corona was at its worst and there were, of course, huge restrictions on it, there were volunteers who made sure that every elderly person in his home received adequate service, whether he lived in a village centre or there on the eastern edge of my village. Everyone got enough help, drugs and other services if they needed it. So here we have the third sector in a valuable position. Finally, Mr President, I hope that we will see in this house, in the Finnish Parliament, that every municipality, every square in this country is just as valuable a place to live.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u187	Thank you. — Representative Adlercreutz absent, representative Löfström absent, representative Talvitie absent — representative Bergqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u188	Värderade Talman! Det är en viktig redogörelse vi i dag diskuterar. Oberoende var man bor och vilken ens bakgrund är ska man kunna drunka sig trygg i Finland. Redogörelsen lyfter upp många bra teman. Jag vill ändå speciellt betona vikten av myndigheternas närvaro runt om i Finland. Då resurserna är knappa sätts oftast allt krut på att centralisera. Polistationer stanger och sjöbevakningsstationer dras in. Det ox leder till att myndigheternas närvaro inte är en självklarhet för alla finländare. Oberoende om du befinner dig i skärgården, på glesbygden eller i stadskärnan skapar vetskapen om att hjälp finns nira en trygghetskänsla. Vetskapen om att polisen eller sjöbevakningen rör sig i området har en förebyggande effectt, och vetskapen om raddningsväsenets närvaro ger oss trygghet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u189	Mr President! The Government's report assesses the state of internal security and the forces for change affecting it and defines the objectives of internal security and the direction of development for the beginning of the decade, i.e. a rather clear and concrete framework for the report. It is no surprise that this report does not exist, however, but rather that the content is confused and greeniologically colored, and simple subjects such as internal security are being discussed throughout the report, from one ministry to another, and sometimes more attention is focused on social and gender issues than on internal security itself. In many ways, the report resembles a government programme, so the principle is that for everyone something is done. There will be a lack of concrete, and the outcome will be known to all. The report is written from the point of view of the authority: listing the individual threat and the corresponding authority. An individual citizen’s perspective on security is dealt with in such a way that almost everything depends on his or her personal characteristics, circumstances or experiences. Among other things, origin and mother tongue are allegedly such distinguishing factors — therefore, sounds like social policy. The report begins with a promising start by saying that Finland is the safest country in the world. The aim is to ensure further development of internal security so that Finland will be a safer country for all people and groups of people in the future. It is also promising that, according to the report, internal security policy is primarily based on prevention. Since there is hardly any crystal ball in the Ministry of the Interior, the next best way to prevent is to learn from the mistakes of others and especially of their own. But, of course, mistakes are not learned here either, but we will continue to act in the same direction, hoping that the outcome will be different. The crime section, for example, does know that the causes of crime are, among other things, poor socio-economic status, overgeneration of problems, residence, young age, male gender, substance abuse and so on. It is also mentioned that the number of rapes reported to the police has increased. In almost the following sentence, a well-known explanation is already applied that the notification threshold has been lowered. There can be no other reason, and therefore there is not a single word in the report, for example, about the shocking over-representation of certain groups of foreigners in rape offences — or it was mentioned in such a way that they are almost certainly also ‘males’. According to the Government Programme, immigration is seen only as a positive factor and it is stressed that it is not an issue of internal security. After all, it is an old way of blurring the debate by talking about immigration in general. An engineer coming to work or a seasonal berry picker is certainly not a security threat, but Abderrahman Bouanane, who has walked through several safe EU countries in Turku, was a concrete example. Not to mention all other Finns who have been subjected to similar crimes over the years. It is worrying that in its report the Ministry of Internal Security does not take into account such a threat in any way — nor does it mention the Isis wives and their children caught on charter flights from Califate in this report. Confusion is also caused by the policy: ‘Promoting the application of people from different backgrounds for police and rescue training This would increase confidence in the authorities, according to the report. There are no concrete means here either, but does not everyone who is suitable today have the opportunity to apply for police status regardless of gender or ethnicity? Is it, however, the intention to create new bypass lanes for minorities, for example, by relaxing language requirements or by making exceptions, for example, for the use of uniforms? Earlier, the Ministry of the Interior announced that it would investigate whether the scarf was allowed by the police, which, in its part, would undermine police neutrality and would be the opposite of what the report wanted. Mr President! Of course, it is clear that praise must also be given if there is something to be given. The report states that the performance of the safety authorities’ equipment is ensured. In fact, the debt to repair has accumulated for too long, especially in the case of marine rescue equipment in low water areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u190	And Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u191	Mr President! A sense of security arises from trust in society and others, from participation, from life management and predictability, and from the experience of justice. The basis for internal security is thus created by a policy that reduces inequalities in society and strengthens the involvement of citizens. That is why it is important for internal security to have the integrity and stability of society. Integrity and stability are achieved by seeking consensus. The former labour market leader of the EK writes in his Democratic column that the consensus has been accused of being a brake on Finland's development. According to quality, so say those who feel are always right. It's a lot nicer to tell you what to do than negotiate. However, such a society as a whole is unlikely to be served or promoted. An effective labour market system has therefore been an important mechanism for regulating social conflicts. It is still needed both in support of policy and in the labour market as a guarantee of peace at work, says Qualitynen. Now, however, even in that area, attempts are being made to increase the imposition rather than to negotiate. Long-term agreement guarantees peace both in the labour market and in society as a whole. I hope we find consensus again on both sides of the road. It is also important for Finland’s internal security. Mr President! Health care activities also play an important role. Prevention of substance abuse and mental health problems among young people, for example, contributes to the building of safety. That is why Mrs Viljanen's speech on the services of people with substance abuse problems was very important. Low-threshold services, access to services in the municipality of residence as soon as you want it, must have a fundamental right. Being a drug addict must not be a reason not to get help. A strong man's job is to help the weaker one.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u192	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u193	Mr President! The Internal Security Report reveals the three most dear points of the Finnish Government's eyes: climate change, immigration and development cooperation. The promotion of the interests of the Finnish people will then be on the Government's priority list a little later. As history has already shown us, these themes ensure that a few people have a sineure over the EU's mussel pots. It is good to remember that global challenges, such as climate change, do not lie on the shoulders of Finland, even though the government, with its entire arsenal and the power of the mainstream media, strives to force it into people's consciousness. China, for example, increased coal power as much as the rest of the world did last year. The impact on emissions is therefore seen here. The only thing you can say about someone in Finland's grade is that this terrible development is the government's business. We must also remember that China's emissions targets are 30 years later than Finland's. In this time, Finland will dry into raisins before an economic power such as China turns off its coal-fired power stations and stop polluting. When the rest of Europe strives for carbon neutrality by 2050, the Finnish Government beats itself with green climate goals only to keep its government up and jam poles in the plaque. In the meantime, Finnish taxpayers, farmers and entrepreneurs will pay too much for this absurd green rage and the internal balance in our country will be shaken. Mr President! The report also highlights the distorted sharing of information, dangerous populism, hate speech which has not actually been defined in any way to date, and, of course, the target, for example, the criticism of our judicial system, which is currently dealing with the order of words of politicians. Government, you are cultivating terms that restrict freedom of expression against critics and critics of government policy, which are pre-emptive to legal action. Your actions demonstrate your desire to direct with an ideological monopoly, who and what can and cannot say. This does not, in my view, support the rule of law in the West and undermines people's sense of security. Well, on the highway towards totalitarianism, you seem to have enough money and drinks. Mr President! The report shows that money and resources are well used to maintain asylum shopping, but nothing sensible has been achieved so far. As long as we do not have the responsibility to adapt, integration measures have no meaning. But it is guaranteed that the sense of safety in the native population will be calculated despite the opposite claims. We know that refugees and asylum seekers from third countries themselves create shadow societies in order to protect their own culture, religion and moral beliefs — not because they experience racism or are excluded from the lack of integration measures, the desire to integrate is often simply lacking, and this is beyond doubt. Gangs of foreign origin, violence and rape continue to multiply, and among the younger and younger. This, if anything, causes increasing insecurity and friction between groups of people. If migration and immigration are a permanent part of society, the root causes of the problems must be rectified and the blue-eyed gnawing and the culpability of the native population must be stopped. Not the Western way of life or demanding it, for example. Those who receive asylum in Finland are not racism, even though you try to make it so. Mr President! Finally, as in the report before us, words and phrases can be found in the world. The difference is, do they have any effect on anything? I do not think it is then when we look at the real threats of the report in an understated tone. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u194	Thank you. — and Mr Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u195	Mr President! It is great that the report highlights the programme against bullying and violence in the government. All we need now is determined action to move it forward so that it does not become another blank entry. As has been said here, the police lack some EUR 30 million in funding. This should be addressed, but we cannot forget the funding of preventive measures either. Immigration is part of internal security. The Marin government has drafted a bill on large-scale immigration for which there are hundreds of criticisms. It completely lacks an assessment of the impact of the reform on crime prevention and security. The secrecy of the government again shows what taboo immigration is like for it. Immigration is a proven threat to security, but it seems to the government that it is forbidden to talk about these, and they are completely ignored. Important impact assessments will not be carried out and experts will not be listened to, even though the Government Programme promises to do so. As a result, the government makes disastrous decisions for Finland, both financially and in terms of internal security. It is quite clear that we must also be able to talk about difficult issues when making decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u196	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u197	Mr President! I dug up the pamphlet I received from that email a few years ago, written by one person who has been working in the security sector here in the capital region. I just updated it a little bit, and I'm gonna use it as a base. We have a Government report on internal security. Police resources are currently completely inadequate to meet the challenges of a changing environment. The police expect EUR 30 million from the government for operational expenditure, but the government is holding out for it. Mr President! The aggression of people who came to Finland as asylum seekers towards the police has increased. In the event of arrest, a police patrol may be surrounded by a group of several people calling for the release of the apprehended person. Situations have often escalated to the point where the police have had to use force and call for additional patrols. In connection with these missions, the police have been injured. The lack of language skills, cultural differences and distrust of the police have made it difficult for asylum seekers to find out. There has also been a signal from those working in the security sector that they are increasingly being subjected to violence and that there is a threat of violence from asylum seekers. This applies to the guards working in shopping centres and public transport stations, as well as to the organisers of restaurants. There have also been serious incidents that endanger the safety of the police, particularly in cities, since the time of the closure of restaurants, when differences between ethnic groups have escalated into mass fighting. These are bad facts. Quote from the Helsingin Sanomat column on 14 October 2017: ‘For example, the number of shootings has increased in the past years, which concerns many. This year, according to the police, there were September 20th. by 93 days. It was a few more than in the previous years and nearly 30 more than in 2014.’ It seems that this government does not want to learn anything from our neighbouring country, Sweden. The import, distribution and sale of drugs is also a type of crime involving more and more people coming to Finland from Arab countries who have established links with Finnish and Estonian professional criminals. Sexual harassment and rapes against Finnish girls and women have increased exponentially. In the public domain, claims have been made that the increase in the number is due to the fact that the notification threshold has fallen due, inter alia, to public debate. It is irresponsible to say this. This kind of argument gives the impression that political leadership and police chiefs want to minimize the problem. Victims have always been able to report rape without public debate. A particularly unfortunate feature is that men from Arab countries are interested in very young girls, up to 10 to 12 years old. To this extent, I myself have been able to get in the middle of this sort of thing when I was able to interrupt the conversation there on the basis of the phone app. There it was unfortunate that the young girl told everything, her whereabouts — or the app told them — to the person who challenged her there. There are also many problems in schools with a large number of children with immigrant backgrounds. In schools in certain residential areas of larger cities, there may be a situation where as many as 50 to 60% of pupils are of immigrant origin. The social skills of children with an immigrant background are weak. Aggressiveness, lack of respect for authority, anxiety, lack of language skills and lack of parental support in school life are causing considerable problems. The role of teachers is no longer necessarily educational but disciplined. Mr President! It is imperative that Finland set up well-guarded return centres in the name of internal security,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u198	Thank you. — And also Mr Pirttilat.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u199	Mr President! The debate on the Internal Security Report has been complex and diverse today, and I would like to add to my own contribution that this multi-authority cooperation, which is at a good level in Finland, is still taking place. From an international point of view, there are almost daily situations in the field of police, health care and rescue, where this cooperation is needed both in field operations and at other levels. Perhaps this referral is still a reference to the committee debate: we now have welfare areas to be completed at the same time, and this new administrative structure will very much be addressed there. Both social care and health care are transferred from municipalities, but equally rescue services are transferred to these welfare areas. And there are a number of agreements — including our Pirkanmaa, when welfare areas are set up, we have to go through 20,000 different agreements and then try to get that cooperation back on track. I am, of course, concerned about the way the private sector is involved in these, but today's debate has been about this rescue operation and, in particular, about the role of contract fire brigades in the future: how are all actors involved in it under different contractual conditions? So it is probably also a challenge, then, for our social welfare reform, for this multi-public cooperation, but it may also be an opportunity, because, among other things, this part of the rescue service also has financial deficits and levelling-up needs, so that it is possible to do so in conjunction with the new social security reform? The estimate is indeed about 130 million for the whole of Finland — 80 million for rescue services and contract fire brigades. In other words, it is as a referral and as a debate that they will go in good cooperation, this thinking of an internally safe Finland until 2030, but equally that we will get this region in order and continue to maintain this excellent multi-authority cooperation, which we have at a good level.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u200	Yes, and the conversation continues. — Representative Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u201	Mr President! In my earlier speech, I mentioned these problems of immigration. Unfortunately, integration into the surrounding society does not really want to go well, and the behaviour of the family and the community, for example, may lead to the rejection of a woman dressed Westernly. Another extreme form of violence that they may do among themselves is that of honor. Mr President! A few days ago I discussed this with an immigrant who told me that their community disapproves of individuals who are actually integrated into Finland, whether it is a man or a woman. There are indications that immigrant communities have their own ‘cultural police’, who guard the culture of the members of the community, which also cripples integration. Mr President! Indeed, it was a good thing that the child’s representative had noticed this honour violence in his statement. The Ombudsman for Children states: ‘In addition, the report does not contain a report on violence related to highquality,even though it is known that the Finnish justice system has a poor recognition Honor-related violence is often directed against girls and women, but it can also be directed against boys and men. In addition, persons belonging to sexual and gender minorities or questioning social standards in other ways are also at particular risk.’ This is where one of the colleagues told us here that there had just been a case like this in Finland, that there was planned a serious crime based on honour, and luckily this was stopped at the border by a generous person working in child protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u202	Thank you. — Mr Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u203	Mr President! I would also like to highlight the issue of exclusion, which is of great importance in this report. However, the report deals with it at a very high level. It would be important to talk about the exclusion of young people. If this is not done, the report does not define the problem precisely enough and its steering effect may therefore be too limited. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u204	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u205	Thank you, Mr President. This proposal proposes to amend the fund-raising law by adding a new paragraph to the provisions on the scope of the law, which would exclude so-called voluntary emission compensation services from the scope of the fund-raising law. The activities referred to in this provision would be possible as out-of-regulation activities of the fund-raising law for different operators, regardless of the legal form of the service provider. The provision of voluntary emission compensation services would therefore be possible in the future without a fund-raising permit. The proposed law is intended to enter into force as soon as possible in autumn 21. Mr President! The so-called voluntary emission compensation activities, i.e. activities aimed at enabling both legal persons and individuals to offset greenhouse gas emissions against payment, have increased in Finland over the past few years. The strong increase in activity and the expansion of its activities have raised the question of the relationship between activity and the fund-raising law, which mainly regulates the collection of funds of general interest. Money collection is an activity in the fund-raising law where, by appealing to the public, money is collected free of charge. Depending on the operating model, voluntary emission compensation activities may have been considered as fulfilling the definition of fundraising in accordance with the Money Collection Act if consumers have been asked for voluntary compensation, and therefore require a cash collection permit. Companies can't get permission to raise money. The current legal situation has appeared unclear to operators in the sector. The aim of the proposal is therefore to clarify the relationship between the fundraising law and voluntary emission compensation. In the future, the law would show what kind of activities the fund-raising law is not suitable for. The aim is to enable the market for national voluntary emission compensation services and thus to encourage companies and other actors in the sector to develop new voluntary emission compensation services and innovations in the sector. The proposal would contribute to the implementation of the Government Programme’s entry in order to achieve carbon neutral Finland by 35 C.E. The aim of the proposal is to enable Finnish companies, foundations and non-governmental organisations to offer consumers and companies services supporting the carbon neutrality objective of the Government Programme also for business purposes. The proposal would ensure that non-governmental organisations and undertakings engaged in different voluntary emission compensation activities are treated equally from the perspective of the fund-raising law when providing voluntary emission compensation services. Non-governmental organisations would continue to be able to do other work for the benefit of the general interest climate within the framework of the regulation of the fund-raising law. Mr President! The amendment to the fund-raising law excludes voluntary emission compensation services from the scope of the fund-raising law, and therefore the fund-raising law would not provide for more precise conditions for voluntary emission compensation activities. However, the need for a broader debate on the quality and reliability of voluntary emission compensation services and the framework conditions has been identified in the preparation of the amendment to the fundraising law. There is a desire for common rules for the industry. The Ministry of the Environment has already carried out a study on the regulatory needs of voluntary emission compensations, which looked at various policy options for the emission compensation market. However, the proposed amendment to the fund-raising law is not directly dependent on the above-mentioned statement or any measures to be decided on the basis thereof. In any event, the clarification of the current legal situation in relation to the fund-raising law requires the amendment of the fund-raising law. Mr President! I would like to thank you for the opportunity to present the government proposal in question.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u206	Congressman Holopainen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u207	Madam President! It is good that voluntary emissions trading compensation activities can be organised in the future without a fund-raising permit. Until now, the legislation has been unclear. Emission compensation is an integral part of the climate action to which we have committed ourselves and thus contributes to the objectives of the Government Programme. But it would be important to bring this proposal into force as soon as possible and, of course, I am a little concerned about the resources we have in preparing legislation. These are challenges both in the Ministry of Justice and in many other ministries. Although, in the midst of this corona crisis, we do not always have enough of those officials to write legislation, and we would need to do so in such a way that at least the lack of resources does not catch up with the progress of our legislation. This challenge has, of course, been widely recognised. It is important to note that we need models for controlling consumption widely where emissions are controlled and people can choose products and services that contain less emissions. For example, Sitra has highlighted the model of a bonus card-type system in South Korea where people get a little bonus, compensation when they use as low-emission products as possible and make such choices. This is certainly the future, so that, along with those system-level climate measures, we need more and more to steer consumption in such a way that people can really make choices that at least reduce their own carbon footprint.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u208	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u209	Madam President! This clarification of the fund-raising law, if you could say so, is very welcome. This is mainly because the new fund-raising law and its interpretation came about with different views between the Police Board and the Kappen Foundation, for which content and solutions are now being sought, even to the point of law. The fund-raising law was reformed last season as a result of long and careful work, and even though we were careful, there are always runaway defects in the law, which we then fix here every week. Regrettably, what is clear to the legislator at the preparatory stage may no longer be so clear to the Police Government, rather unclear. Many interpretation practices in the police administration have caused gray hair to NGOs. I understand, therefore, that cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and the Police Department in the drafting of the law should be further sharpened. What has not been written and opened in the explanatory notes of the law does not exist. A very good example of this: Last season, when the key objectives of the reform of the fund-raising law were to streamline and facilitate the collection process and make the entire legal mechanism around the fund-raising law more understandable, it was very careful to get such a simple thing into the law that the association could put its own account number on the website in connection with its own contact information. Well, the lawmaker thought that the account number was an account number and contains everything related to the account number, but the Police Administration interpreted that when the law does not state that it is allowed to have an account number and the reference numbers associated with that account, the Police Government requires that these reference numbers be displayed with its own permission to collect money. It's completely incomprehensible to us here, but the police government is obviously unclear. I very much welcome this proposal, in which the Ministry of the Interior once and for all took the bull out of the horns, as they say, and started off — although this has taken a surprising amount of time, the result is a good one, and from a climate point of view I am very pleased with this — but this does not remove the problem that there is still a very significant twist between the police administration and the associations about this interpretation policy, which is linked to the fund-raising law. And I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the pile that is on my desk and that comes from the associations, asking what this means when we have received such a request from the Police Government... Well, I'm here all night trying to figure it out and write them how to answer these questions to the Police Department. It can't be like this. I hope, therefore, that the Home Secretary will listen carefully to some of the pain thresholds that exist, and then perhaps give a stick to his successor for a little while, so that these things can really be made clear. Another example: The association applied for a fund-raising permit for work they do as a charitable work in so-called third countries, and when they were unable to demonstrate to the Police Government where those woolen socks sent from Finland eventually go, they did not receive a money-raising permit. It cannot be that the one who helps must know to the end where the help goes. It's an unreasonable demand, and that's how the helping stopped. Mr President! Mr Pikkanen's report went past this proposal, but I thought it would be a good opportunity to bring this to Parliament's attention too, that we have work to do here, because we all want cooperation with the Police Government and ministries and Parliament to be always clear and correct. No one here is going to pick a fight, but these many things would require a lot of attention. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u210	Congressman Honkone's gone. — Representative Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u211	Madam President! Indeed, it is a specific updating of the fund-raising law. During the last period, major reforms were made to the fund-raising law, which came into force on 1 March, and the aim was precisely to streamline these fund-raising activities. To that extent, the time window in which the legislation was being prepared last season did not think that similar interpretation difficulties would arise in such different types of voluntary emission compensation services and similar matters, so in that sense the government proposal is necessary and thank you for that. There is also a bill on this in the early years, and it is good that we now get this government proposal to start the autumn season. As Vice-President of the Administrative Committee, I shall take steps to ensure that this issue is also dealt with quickly. Madam President! As far as the issues raised by Mr Laukkanen in that speech are concerned, the situation is indeed that the objectives of the last period have not been achieved. I believe that the legislation on collection is in order, but now there is a need for operational instructions and practical advice and applications from the Police Government. Such changes were made to the legislation that the field of operators, which is huge and consists mainly of small fundraising and organisations and volunteers, also needs these practical advice on how to apply the law. Madam President! This is indeed a necessary and good change in the fund-raising law, and hopefully the status quo for this autumn will also be corrected. It cannot be that if something is not prohibited by law, then at the moment our authorities would interpret it as contrary to the law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u212	Congressman Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u213	Mr President! I, too, would like to say briefly here that it is important that we now correct this failure in the money-gathering legislation regarding voluntary emission compensation. Thank you, Minister Ohio, for taking this matter forward. As has been said here, emissions compensation is an integral part of climate action. Of course, emission reductions are the most important measure, but alongside it, the possibility of compensating for our own emissions is important and will lead us forward towards our climate objectives, and therefore, as has been said here, the law should be put into effect as soon as possible. Emission compensation enables each of us to compensate for our own consumption emissions and reduce our carbon footprint. On the other hand, it enables organisations, foundations and entrepreneurs to create such compensation services and thus develop voluntary emissions compensation and climate innovations in the sector and thus take our climate work forward. What is essential here, of course, is that this compensation is an increase and that otherwise it would not have happened, and we need transparent standards, criteria and controls to ensure this. This is not the task of this legislation, of course, nor is it the case, but the Ministry of the Environment has already carried out a study on the need to regulate voluntary emission compensation, and that is something that will be taken forward. It is good to say here that Finland is lagging behind other countries in emission credits, so this reform of the fund-raising law is really needed. This reform now makes it possible to create a compensation market in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u214	Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u215	Madam President! That is where I listened to Mr Laukka and on many points I agree. It is good that these everyday problems also come to the attention of the Minister. It may have occurred to me that when you apply for that permit — and now it is from the Police Government, or actually it is from the lottery administration, and this can also be done electronically — you still have a very long period of time to process this permit. As the police government says it is between two and four months, this would perhaps be, in addition to the technical corrections to be made to these legislation, something that could be considered to be made more flexible. After all, in this previous law the situation improved with regard to small collections, and in this previous reform the situation improved significantly, but this period of authorisation is still very long. It is a very long time for many operators of general interest, because it must then be anticipated from a very long distance when we talk about up to four months. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u216	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u217	Mr President! In this climate compensation, a case is now being forced to arise that I would absolutely like this to be really accurate and to be narrowed down. First of all, if I am to be frank, I am such a rookie, and even before I came here, many times I wondered that things would last so long and that there would be no way of correcting clear shortcomings. Now such a thing, which is not the most important thing in the world, even in this Chamber, but after some problems in this place, it confuses me quite a bit... And the situation is, if you're honest... My way of life is to recycle almost everything, and even in the sauna cottage in my own yard at the moment, nothing else is used than what you have to, what you cannot recycle, for example, concretes and mortars. I live on recycling, and in my opinion, this kind of hocus-pocus thing, that we are paying ourselves to feel good, that I do not think it will work, that we are not saving the world with this. We're actually saving by action. In my opinion, this sounds a bit like a sectarian act of buying approval. Because the situation is that this is opening up a market for companies which, in practice, are likely to — unless there is some really precise legislation to do this, how much government expenditure can be on the money it collects or the like — this is actually the way for certain arrogant and greedy people to get money for themselves by selling good minds to people. There is no limit to how much this organization, which is doing this job, the CEO will get paid, how much of it is actually spent on saving the world. As an ideology, I have no objection at all to saving the world. I do it myself with a constant pitch. I just went to buy a suit jacket for ten euros from a flea, which I'm going to be wearing when I get my sleeves cut by five cents. But such practices that we are, in a way, buying it as an environmental act, while certainly half of that money, I say, goes somewhere else than that environmental act. Okay, if anyone will.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u218	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u219	Madam President! Mr Talvitie made an excellent speech here, and it must be said that last season the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mykkänen, did an excellent job. What I liked about the whole reform of the fund-raising law was the way in which NGOs were involved. They were listened to, it was a broad committee, it was a long process and it was being improved all the time, and eventually it was very good, and many things have improved. For example, a small collection permit has been a very important issue for small associations. In fact, these tiny run-off defects that have been left there would be extremely easy to correct with regulations. They would go just by specifying what is meant by the content of the law. But the greater concern is how this communication between Parliament, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police Government could be even better so that the instructions on the website of the Police Board regarding the collection of funds would be clear in such a way that they would not be open to interpretation all the time so that several letters would have to be sent to that applicant from the Police Government because they want to know exactly how and where and who is now collecting this and in what way. It was not the purpose of the reform, but the creation of rules of play where trust is the most important, and then ensuring that these who raise that money also spend the money on where it is collected and such grey areas disappear from this round of collection. The special thing is that, for example, these association - based congregations are instructed to collect collections at the gatherings there, but then the Police Government considers that the opportunity is no longer there on the coffee side, but that voluntary donation for the coffee requires a fund-raising permit, even though those church coffees are the same opportunity. In my opinion, these are completely unnecessary issues that cause regret and harm to the public and then create the resentment between the work of the authority and its NGO. I think these things should be clarified and made easier that there will be no such interpretation gaps, but then the ministry and the Police Board could together look at what is at that adjustment stage
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u220	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u221	Thank you, Madam President. I have taken another floor, actually, because it is quite... Mr Laakso pointed out that it is regrettable that certain things are not moving quickly and that there will be no change. Last season I was one of the few representatives who received a legislative amendment through their own legislative initiative, thanks to the strong contribution and cooperation of colleagues. I have also been promoting a legislative initiative in this area. When it comes to major reforms or the complex nature of things, it is quite clear that they will last and take their time, such as the larger reform of the fund-raising law, which indeed included NGOs, committees and others. But actually, this government proposal is only a few lines long. It introduces two short paragraphs within the scope of the fund-raising law to which the law does not apply. Of course, since last summer, legislative work has been carried out, as it should be, through consultations and all the like, what good legislation is needed to prepare. However, relative to this issue, the legislative change is small and only a few lines long.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u222	Congressman Kari, Emma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u223	Mr President! Yes, you have to give thanks when you have a place to thank. Here we had a situation in which we had a clear breach of our legislation and we were in a situation that no one wished for and very quickly the situation will be corrected. This is a special thank you to the Minister of the Interior and to the entire government. Personally, I think that we are in a situation of combating climate change, as has often been pointed out over the last few weeks, that there is no one specific solution that will solve this situation. We need every possible means of reducing emissions and increasing sinks. What is being done here is not that this one small change of law will save the world, but we will involve organisations, foundations and companies more strongly than in the past and enable this compensation system to be improved. Of course there is a need for control and monitoring, but I personally think that the state should not do everything itself, but that we should also make it possible and involve everyone. Finland is lagging behind other countries in this emission credit, and that is why this reform is particularly needed. At best, we are creating an entirely new sector, and this will lead to new climate action and hopefully the jobs that we desperately need. What is important is that it is possible for everyone who wants and is able to participate in climate action. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u224	I did, and we will have spent almost half an hour of what has been reserved here. — Let us take Mr Mari Holopainen here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u225	Madam President! Mr Laakso pointed out that one way is not enough, and you also pointed out that recycling is important and that the circular economy is important. It's just like this. Repair is important, and it is important that more incentives are created for people to repair their clothes more often than to throw them away. For example, the government has agreed to examine whether the household allowance can be extended more and more to repair. There are also obstacles and bottlenecks that must be dismantled equally. We also need to reduce consumption, we need to decouple GDP growth more and more from emissions, and we need to measure our economic growth in quite different ways, we need to find better, wider ways to do so than GDP, which ignores over-consumption of natural resources and emissions. It is quite true that a number of measures are needed. We also need to encourage carbon sequestration, and this legislative change is one of the ways in which we really need this wide range of products. It's great to have the Minister. With the government, Ohio has now taken this project forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u226	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Defence Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u227	Thank you, Mr President. The Government's proposal for a law on the provision of official assistance by the Defence Forces to the police and some other law on official assistance is under discussion. The purpose of this important proposal is to update the legislation on official assistance to the police, which is now almost 40 years old and which has remained for many parts of its time. The bill aims to improve the police’s ability to protect the safety of Finns and residents of Finland. Mutual assistance between security authorities is part of normal everyday life and works well. Therefore, no changes are now being proposed to the basic principles of official assistance and to the everyday, so-called "normal" assistance between the authorities. In the cases referred to in the law, it is a question of carrying out police duties under the direction and direction of the police. Official assistance legislation does not create new powers and does not change the management relationship between the authorities. Official assistance provided by the Defence Forces and the Border Guard is not intended to remedy the police's lack of resources. Official assistance is only intended for individual situations where the police’s own resources and equipment, for example, are inadequate in relation to the situation. Mr President! The main changes in the draft law relate to preparedness, very exceptional situations and the regulation of military assistance. The demanding assistance proposed in the Act is intended to prevent and suspend terrorist attacks in situations where the police’s own force or equipment is insufficient and armed assistance from the Defence Forces or the Border Guard is needed. The objective of the amendment is to enable the police to obtain demanding official assistance at an earlier stage in order to get the assistance there in time. The current law requires that a decision corresponding to demanding official assistance is taken in principle at the General Assembly of the Government. The decision-making process will take time and, given the speed with which these situations may be taking place, the threat in the current law is that the aid will not be available in time. The aim is to enable a decision on demanding official assistance to be taken at a sufficiently early stage in order to enable the decision to be implemented within the time required by the situation. In a sudden situation, the decision-making process should be sufficiently agile. That is why, Mr President, some changes are being proposed to the conditions and the decision-making process for providing official assistance. In the case of demanding official assistance, the main rule remains the decision-making process in the General Assembly of the Government. However, the proposal suggests that the level of decision-making on demanding official assistance could in some respects be reduced at ministerial level between the ministries of internal affairs and defence. In the event of an emergency, a decision could be taken at central agency level, i.e. the Police Government would decide to ask for demanding assistance, and depending on the person to whom the request has been made, the Chief Staff or the Border Guard Headquarters would take a decision to provide assistance. The proposal suggests that a decision to provide demanding official assistance could be taken before the situation is immediately in place, if specific information or observations have been made to suggest that this is a crime that seriously threatens the lives or health of a large number of people — that is to say, as a change to the current situation. It is also proposed that, in addition to preventing and suspending terrorist offences, demanding official assistance could be provided in order to prevent or suspend a number of other crimes which have a similar effect to the terrorist offence, which seriously endanger the lives and health of a large number of people. The reason for this change is that when deciding on official assistance it is not necessarily known whether or not the crime has a terrorist motive. In addition, the Act proposes a separate provisioning regulation. The present law has not taken any account of preparedness at all. Precautions would allow for the advance movement of equipment contained in the official assistance in individual situations, but would not yet justify its use without a decision on assistance. This could be applied on a prudent basis in situations where the conditions for demanding official assistance are not yet met, but it has been estimated from an overall assessment that normal official assistance may not be sufficient. Preparedness can make an essential contribution to the ability of the police to respond and to counter the threat if the situation is rapidly escalating and the conditions for demanding assistance are at hand. It is also proposed to amend the border guard system in such a way that the regulation of demanding administrative assistance would be in line with the regulation of the proposed new law on administrative assistance. I would also like to stress that situations where demanding assistance from the Defence Forces or the Border Guard could be needed are very rare and exceptional. I am sure that everyone here would like to see the provisions on demanding official assistance never applied, but that does not relieve us of our obligation to prepare. Demanding official assistance is the police's last resort to prevent the planned terrorist attack from being carried out. The proposal also includes proposals to amend the Police Act, the Defence Forces Act and the Voluntary National Defence Act. The laws are intended to enter into force at the beginning of next year. Mr President! Thank you for the opportunity to present it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u228	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u229	Mr President! I am sure that this is a very necessary change in the legislation presented here by Minister Ohio. But what comes to mind now is, when you spoke of this demanding assistance and said that this could be, for example, a last resort for the police to prevent the terrorist attack that is taking place, whether, Minister Ohio, there were other situations that have been considered at the time when this law was adopted, when you said that this could not be limited to these terrorist attacks. And, of course, it is clear, as you said, that the police's lack of resources cannot be filled with official assistance. But it is only natural that if their numbers go very low, then this threshold will inevitably be lowered in these situations, if the number of policemen falls, and this certainly must not be such a place for the Defence Forces. But I would have asked you: What were the situations in these where this could be applied?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u230	And Secretary Ohio, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u231	Mr President! Thank you for the floor. Indeed, this proposal, which is now on the table here, is based on a report by a broad-based working group of officials in September, which was in the consultation process. There has been a broad positive response to this, and the proposal has received support. As I have pointed out, this is a 40-year-old regulation in the background, and the world has, of course, become more diverse, whether it is a matter of preparing for terrorist attacks, of these very serious exceptional situations in general, situations in which police equipment and staff are not enough, that is to say, it is seen that we need stronger armed equipment. These have been widely considered in this cooperation project, which is behind this law. It is really a question of strengthening preparedness and, for example, securing state visits more effectively. Of course, Finland has been responsible for the security of a very large number of Heads of State here during the Presidency of the European Union, and this would also help us in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u232	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u233	Thank you, Speaker! Did I miss it just now, that is, was this also going to the Administrative Committee for the opinion?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u234	This is going to the Administrative Committee for a report, and the Constitutional Committee and the Defence Committee will then give it opinions. Like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u235	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u236	Thank you, Mr President. The aim of this Government's proposal is to develop the regulation of recruitment of civilian crisis management experts posted abroad. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that Finland has a sufficiently large, diverse and competent team of experts with regard to its civilian crisis management participation objectives and priorities. At the same time, account must be taken, inter alia, of the impact of participation in civilian crisis management on the human resources of specialist background employers. Currently, the recruitment of civilian crisis management experts has followed the practice of setting maximum service periods for all experts and requiring a break between service relationships. The proposal would create a clear norm for the recruitment procedure, which would differ in certain respects from the current practice. The proposal proposes that those employed by the state, municipality or joint municipal authority should continue to be entitled to leave office or to leave work for the duration of the activities referred to in the Civil Crisis Management Act. However, the right would be limited to a total of three years' absence over a period of five years. The discretion given to the employer would, in part, achieve the same objectives as the current practice of the requirements for a break in service relationships and maximum service periods. The proposed restriction on the right to leave would bring the position of employees of general government closer to those of other employers, while also giving limited discretion to public employers as regards the granting of leave. The proposal also extends the right to such leave of absence or exemption from work to basic civilian crisis management training and post-employment feedback sessions, not just organised by the Crisis Management Centre. Employers other than those employed by the state, municipality or joint municipal authorities are not obliged, as is the case today, to grant their employees exemption from work for the purposes of the Civil Crisis Management Act. In the preparation of the proposal, it was not considered necessary to restrict by law the possibilities for these people or those who do not have an employment relationship to apply for civilian crisis management tasks. The proposal contains one restriction for all. Certain civilian crisis management tasks specified in the Regulation could be designated as candidates or only those who have not previously been in a service relationship under the Civil Crisis Management Act. This provision is intended to facilitate the recruitment of first-timers for civilian crisis management tasks. In this case, the benefits for Finnish working life will also be greater by ensuring that more people have the opportunity to participate in civilian crisis management tasks and to bring the expertise acquired in the tasks to Finland. Mr President! Regulation would take into account Finland’s EU obligations. It is proposed to regulate that a State employee should not be entitled to leave office if he is in a position based on an obligation under Finnish EU law. The Member States of the Union are obliged to participate in the permanent European Border and Coast Guard, for example. The right of an official to leave office for the purposes of activities referred to in the Civil Crisis Management Act would be problematic in view of this obligation. With regard to the recruitment procedure, it is also proposed to regulate the obligation of the applicant to provide health information, to take part in health checks where appropriate and to provide a certificate for the drug test in the appointment procedure. These costs are borne by State resources. In addition, the integrity and bonds of the person to be appointed will be clarified. Therefore, regulation would clarify the current situation. The law would prohibit an appeal against a decision on appointment. The right of appeal would be problematic if, as a result, Finland had to inform the European Union, for example, that a person likely to have been in a service for a long time would not be able to continue in his or her duties. In practice, the Court of Appeal would have no bearing on the appellant’s legal protection. With regard to other amendments, it is proposed that the law should be regulated to limit the period of notice of a person in a contract of employment. The service relationships in civilian crisis management are often short, and as long as 6 months' notice periods under the State Civil Service Act would often be excessive for the employer. — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u237	Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u238	Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. — This bill clarifies and provides tools for both personnel planning and recruitment and life management, although I understand that public employment may also have critical assessments. In any case, the changes will involve and extend the basis of civilian crisis management and the use and development of expertise in it to more demanding tasks. However, the three-year rule, even if implemented in several parts, may seem like a task cycle, and it should be noted that it does not undermine the involvement of a specialist. The common goal must certainly be that substance competence is in use regardless of the security of the public sector’s employment relationship. In addition, with a view to improving civilian crisis management more effectively and more proactively than the operating environment, the evaluation as a co-operation between different responsible parties should be developed, and the parliamentary crisis management group proposed quantitative and qualitative targets for participation in crisis management. I understand that at least the gender-conscious 50-50 recruitment has been taken into account, but what else has been taken into account, i.e. how can participation be made as broad-based as possible in society? So while this bill clarifies matters on the basis of the employment relationship, how is it taken into account that a broad and over-sector specific expertise can be provided for mediation and crisis management tasks in the future? I hope that this will be remembered when the report is being prepared in order to improve the basis for training and recruitment. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u239	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u240	Mr President! I'm sure this is a good performance. I would have asked Minister Ohio: when this is meant to limit the selection of certain tasks so that they would be first-timers, was there any other options here than precisely this sort of function title orientation, when perhaps one might think that in another place a particular task is more suitable for a first-timer than in another place? The second question then relates to this report of the Parliamentary Committee, which Mr Junnila has just referred to: since apparently half of women should now be involved in these tasks, are the countries of destination in Finland capable of making this even possible in a safe and rational way? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u241	Secretary Ohio, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u242	Mr President! Thank you for these comments. — First of all, Mr Junnila: It is a good point how we attract more people in this area at all. When this parliamentary work, which has been done in the area of civilian crisis management, was also mentioned, there has certainly been a lot of work to be done on how to inform people, how to better understand these opportunities, whether from the employers' point of view, how to create new opportunities or how people understand that international tasks are possible for all. This work will be strengthened, and parliamentary work will play a very important role in this. Then there is the question of whether it is safe to work in these countries: We have many examples that even in very difficult places, regardless of gender, people have been active.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u243	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Education and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u244	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to introduce amendments to the law on the reform of family leave. It implements the Government Programme of Prime Minister Sanna Marin on the reform of family leave and implements the European Parliament-Council Directive on the Balance of Labour. The reform contributes to the Government’s demographic policy objectives. Mr President! Reform is a big investment in families with children. The number of paid parental allowance days is increasing. The aim of the reform is to ensure a more even distribution of family leave and care responsibilities among both parents in families, and in particular to encourage fathers to increase the use of the free. A more even distribution of care responsibilities would have a positive impact both within the family and in society as a whole. The aim is to strengthen equality and equality in working life and also to reduce the gender pay gap. The aim is, above all, to increase the well-being of children and families. When both parents can establish a close relationship with the child right from the start and are responsible for the child’s care, it helps to build a close relationship between the child and the parent. The reform will increase the opportunities for family choice and flexibility in the maintenance of family leave and ensure equal treatment for all parents and children regardless of family form. The reform brings family leave to this day and takes into account the diversity of families. Mr President! This is a major reform. The key changes to the proposal are included in the Health Insurance Act, the Employment Contracts Act and the Early Childhood Education Act. In addition, amendments are proposed to the Act on Child Home Care and Private Care Support and the Act on customer fees for early childhood education and a total of 25 other laws. The proposal proposes a reform of the full system of parental allowance under the Health Insurance Act. The total number of parental allowance days would increase from the current 317 days, i.e. from approximately 12.5 months to 360 days, i.e. to approximately 14.5 months. Parental allowance would be paid on the basis of one child for a total of 320 working days. In the proposal, plural families have been taken into account so that 84 additional parental allowance days per child would be paid for the second child and the subsequent child. Mr President! If the child had two parents entitled to parental allowance, the parental allowance would be divided into half parents, i.e. both parents would be entitled to 160 parental allowance days. The parent could give up to 63 parental allowance days from his/her own parental allowance quota for the use of the child’s other parent or parent spouse, or for use by the child’s other guardian or the child’s other parent spouse. On the other hand, if a child has only one parent entitled to parental allowance, he or she could use the full quota per child, i.e. 320 days. Before the beginning of the parental allowance entitlement, a pregnant mother would be paid a pregnancy allowance for 40 working days. Parental parents’ parental allowance rights would, as a rule, be determined on the same basis, regardless of the form of family or whether the parents are married or cohabiting. While one of the major objectives of the reform is to increase the use of family leave, especially for fathers, the mother will continue to have the possibility of the current length of family leave if the mother so wishes. Mr President! Parental allowance could be used in a much more flexible way according to the situation and needs of the family. It could be used at the desired times and periods until the child reaches the age of two years or two years after taking care of the adopted child. Parents could also, for example, alternate in the care of a child or work part-time or receive partial parental allowance. The period of pregnancy allowance could also be started more flexibly than the current maternity allowance. Increasing flexibility is an important part of the reform and will facilitate reconciliation between work and family in the early years of the child. Flexibility is increasing not only in employee families but also in student and entrepreneurial families. The provisions of the Employment Contracts Act on family leave would be amended as required by the provisions of the Health Insurance Act on parental allowance and as a result of the implementation of the Employment Balance Directive. The Employment Contracts Act would provide for a new family-care leave. The law on early childhood education would also be subject to the necessary amendments to the parental allowance provisions. The right to early childhood education would start in the beginning of the calendar month in which the child turns nine. In addition, the right to the same place of early childhood education would remain even if the child were absent from early childhood education due to parental leave if the absence lasted for a continuous period of not more than 13 weeks. Pre-announced absences due to parental leave in early childhood education would be free of charge for parents. In addition, a number of preferential laws and other laws would be subject to terminology and technical amendments resulting from the proposed changes to the Parental Allowance Scheme or the Employment Contracts Act of the Health Insurance Act. Mr President! Family leave reform is not expected to have a significant direct impact on employment. The cost impact of the reform is estimated at EUR 80 million, but the cost of the reform depends on the actual behavioural impact. The proposal relates to the draft budget of the State for 2022 and is intended to be dealt with in connection with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u245	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u246	Madam President! It is wonderful that we are allowed to discuss family policy here today. The birth rate now turned to a slight increase in the corona year 2020 after a ten-year continuous crash, yet our population is ageing strongly and the birth rate is still quite low. Finland's demographic structure is still the oldest in Northern Europe, and in such a situation a positive attitude towards families with children is needed, positive messages and signals are needed for families with children. I would therefore like to begin by thanking you for the fact that this proposal is much better than it was necessary to understand during these previous debates. We all know the political pressures of this reform of family leave within the government too, and I would therefore like to express my sincere thanks to the Central Party, whose handprint is reflected in this reform, above all, in the fact that home care support will not be broken down and the length of parental leave for mothers in fixing and increasing these quotas will not be reduced either. After all, there has been a great deal of pressure on this over the last ten years, and there has been pressure to support home care. When I myself was a minister in the government from 2011 to 2015, I can tell you that it was a party that left us to defend home care support. The same controversy has taken place during a number of governments, and this time it seemed that it was the centre's job to defend this. Such repeated ideological attacks against home care support and, in general, against the possibility for parents to care at home for young children under the age of three create uncertainty in families with children. Here I would remind you that home care support is a very popular benefit. According to the Kela Yearbook, almost 90 per cent of the families who are entitled to it use the aid. However, this proposal now reinforces this principle of quota for both parents. Of course I support it and I very much welcome the fact that fathers also participate in childcare, but I do not think it is up to the government to take these decisions on behalf of the families. So what is the problem if an adult woman makes a decision of her own volition to care for her children, even during the whole period of parental leave and home care support, if the spouse agrees, or vice versa, that the father would like to use it? Why on earth should the government determine how these tasks are shared within the family? I think that this government proposal leaves us with the impression that the top objective is to embellish these statistics on gender equality. However, family situations vary, children are individuals. I think it would be wise for families to choose the way in which childcare is organised.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u251	And do we want to have a debatt? Apparently, they do. Let's get this thing started. — Debatin will be initiated by Mr Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u252	Mr President! First of all, we must thank the government and Minister Sarkki for the fact that we are now dealing with a very important reform. Family leave reform has many implications for the various sectors of society and, of course, for the everyday life and working life of families. For the first time, the reform gives both parents equal rights to participate in child care. It finally treats different families equally and recognizes the diversity of families. The reform encourages both parents to keep parents free. Today, it is very common for mothers to be free for the most part, and the impact on employers is therefore even greater in women - dominated sectors. Increasing the father’s own free quota is a strong message from society to families and workplaces that care responsibilities and the right to care also belong to the father. The reform also supports the change in the attitude climate. The reform of family leave provides tools to ensure that parents are in a more equal position, and it is desirable that both parents keep children free.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u253	Congressman Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u254	Mr President! The Coalition Party has long promoted family leave reform to increase equality in Parliament. With this reform, we want to promote better everyday life for families, equality, equality between working life and parenthood and the right of children to participate in early childhood education. There are a lot of good elements in this government proposal that we support with warmth, but unfortunately, from the point of view of equality, the reform has become very watered down along the way. Equality is not progressing and, according to experts, the reform could even reduce employment. I would like to ask the government and the Minister: why did the government miss out on a unique opportunity to promote equality?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u255	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u256	Mr President! I support Mr Räsänen's idea that families should have freedom of choice. For some reason, it seems that this government is happy to interfere with how we move, what we eat, what we think, and now how we treat our children. I believe that Finns can define what is best for their family and their child in the family themselves. It is extremely unfortunate, though, that the government is going down here too. Fortunately, however, the very worst terminological issues did not come into this performance, but I am surprised at this pregnancy allowance and special pregnancy allowance. I find this term boring. Especially when this bill tells us that this is being paid to a future mother, why, then, cannot it be spoken of as a maternity allowance if it is being paid to a future mother?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u258	Congressman Kemp.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u259	Madam President! Thank you very much for finally getting the reform of the family leave parliament. This is an important structural reform for Finland as a whole. And thank you for taking this forward ahead of families, not ahead of working life, as has been the case in some places in this debate. I am convinced that the reform of the government's family leave will bring the daily lives of families to this day, and this model will also provide better protection for families with children than the current situation. This model will increase flexibility; it was an extremely important issue for the city centre. For example, in the family of one parent, the parent is allowed to use all quotas. We downtown people don't compromise on home care support. It will remain in this reform as it is today. It is also the wish and choice of families in many places. The best part of the model is to increase the share of fathers, and I am very proud that it has been strongly taken into account here. This reform is a choice of values based on children's needs, not a means of blackmailing families in employment policy. I think it's very important,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u260	Congressman Salmonkoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u261	Mr President! Family leave reform is an important act of equality and a step towards a more equal parenthood, as family leave quotas for fathers increase substantially from the previous one. Thank you very much to the government and ministers, Mr Pekonen and Mr Sarkkinen. No one's free in this model is getting shorter. Neither has any of the present governmental parties been in the process of shortening the freedom of mothers, contrary to what was claimed here. I myself was negotiating in the government negotiations, and I am surprised at such a claim. The opportunities for family choice and flexibility are increased here. This reform is very welcome and necessary for gender equality and will also contribute to the well-being of children and families. This will improve equality in working life by improving the position of young women in employment, as it is expected that the use of paternity leave will increase as a result of the reform of family leave. Whenever the share of Daddy’s quota has been increased, an increasing number of fathers have used family leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u262	Congressman Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u263	Mr President, värderade talman! Det rauh förslaget är ett viktigt steg för att modernsera vårt famileledighets system. Den största utmaningen harvarit att få papporna att ta ut famillegigheter och activare delta i barnets uppväxt. Den au reformen utgör en stark morot i rätt riktning, men utöver lagen behövs en attitydförändring i samhället och framför allt på arbetsmarknaden.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u264	Mr President! I'd like to thank you, Minister. The Sarkki report on the presentation of this important reform of family and gender equality. The Greens have been pushing for family leave reform for a long time. This reform, which has been presented here, is not complete, but it is an historic step in the right direction. Finally, it is recognized that a father has the same right to have time with his child as a mother. Contrary to what could be understood by some speakers here, freedom of choice for families will not be reduced in any way compared to the current situation. Even after the reform, parents can give their parental leave to each other according to the family’s situation. From mothers, reform takes nothing away — nothing — but instead the status of fathers and the rights of fathers to their own children and at that important time with their own children will be improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u265	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u266	Madam President! Family leave reform is one of the most important reforms of this parliamentary term. The Coalition Party attaches great importance to this. It is to be welcomed that there will be more flexibility for the family and that the status of different families will be recognised. But the real disappointment is that this came in watered down. It's got some serious run-ins. One is that the reform does not include effective incentives to compensate for care responsibilities and, in particular, the cost of parenting. I thought the feedback from the hearing was harsh. It stated that the proposal will not, in the end, significantly increase the use of fathers' family leave. This means that the objectives of equality remain very far away. As long as the mother incurs more costs than the fathers, discrimination against women in the labour market will continue. It is certainly not today that we maintain systems that favour the hiring of men and promote discrimination against women. So let me ask the government: why was this left uncorrected? Why was this proposal left as a torso in this regard and allowed that in the future sex is a bonus for a man and a risk for a woman? We need women and men in working life, don't we?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u267	Congressman Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u268	Madam President! I would like to thank Mr Sarkkinen and Mr Pekonen for preparing this important reform. It was important for the central group that home care support should not be undermined. Families must retain the right to make their own choice, which form of treatment is appropriate for their families. Families and their needs are different. The better they can be considered, the better the families — and individuals within the family unit. There are mothers who soon want baby leave to work, and there are fathers who like to stop on their own career path to take care of the baby as long as it is legally and economically possible. We must also respect a more traditional model in which the mother bears the main responsibility for the care of the baby and wants to spend all the time in the home caring that is possible under the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u269	Congressman Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u270	Madam President! This family leave reform is one of the biggest and, in my opinion, the best structural reforms that have been carried out for a long, long time, and I really hope that this will receive the attention it deserves, even though we are discussing it tonight. I think it is very valuable that the opportunities for us fathers to be with children in particular are supported and thus increased equality. I believe that this reform will have a good impact on the long-term future. So, thank you very much — apart from Mr Sarkkinen, who brings us the legislative proposals — especially as a minister for a great job, a job, for Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, who has done this, whose great work is the result and outcome of these legislative changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u271	Congressman Sirén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u272	Mr President! This is indeed a very important reform for families, which has been promoted for a long time by the Coalition Party and in which the members of the Assembly have been proactive and active. The government set a very good set of objectives for this reform, with which it is easy to agree. The proposal brings some positive steps forward, which we are in favour of: increasing flexibility in some areas and taking more account of different families, although there is still room for improvement in others. Unfortunately, from an overall point of view, however, this government proposal is disappointing and somewhat unambitious. The question is: why did the government not hear the presentations and messages of experts who would have provided solutions as to how genuine care responsibilities and the cost of parenting would be balanced and thus taken into account?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u273	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u274	Mr President! The fact is that this is a very big future for family policy. There is no way I can catch up with the few criticisms that freedom of choice has not been added to the families here. The reform will significantly improve the choice of families. Thus, with this reform, society will not whisper in the ear of anyone or any family, how it should be done, but in the house of the family and in its own kitchen. Nor can I find anything reprehensible about increasing our fathers' quotas without taking them away. Personally, I would like to thank the government deeply for the excellent preparation of this reform of family leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u275	Congressman Hänninen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u276	Madam President! Now you could say, finally. Thank you to the Government, thank you to the previous Minister, Mr Pekonen, and thank you to Mr Sarkkinen for bringing one of the important family leave reforms to this Chamber to improve equality and equality. This reform also takes into account the diversity of families, which is extremely important. This improves the livelihood of families with children and supports the friendliness of families with children. Thank you for that. This reform will enable more flexible and equal use of family leave. In 2020, as many as 89 per cent of the users of parental allowances were women and only 11 per cent were men. In other words, equality has not been achieved in the use of family leave, but this reform enables and also enables fathers to spend more of that important time with their own little child. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u277	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u278	Mr President! I also have a few statistics here. Women spend the majority, about 89%, of all parental leave. The proportion of women with home care support was even higher: only 8% of the recipients of home care support were men. And still the female euro is only 84 cents and the pension euro is even smaller, 79 cents. Women spent 98 per cent of parental allowance days. In other words, in the light of the statistics, everyone in this Chamber must agree that incentives for fathers are needed. It also requires cultural change, but here is a quota where the inalienable share is four months for the father to stay and care for the child, and it is hoped that this incentive will help.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u279	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u280	Madam President! This reform also includes a new family-care leave, which I consider to be extremely important, namely the right to five unpaid days off to care for and care for a sick person, and this is a significant improvement on the current situation. An employee is also entitled to an equivalent leave when a loved one is in hospice care: it is possible to be next to a dying loved one, to care for him at the last minute, to say good-bye. This is a very valuable and deeply human reform. The bill is all very well supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u281	Congressman Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u282	Mr President! The reform of family leave is necessary, but unfortunately the government's proposal remains modest. Of course, one of the good things about it is that the share of those who are dependent on earnings is getting longer. However, real concrete incentives and more effective structural reforms are still lacking. It would now have been possible to reform family leave in an ambitious way as a whole instead of these minor cuts that have now been presented. Concrete solutions are addressed, among other things, to the following major issues and to the challenges behind this reform: How are fathers really encouraged to make greater use of family leave? A significant proportion of the frees that are now possible for fathers will remain
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u283	And I would also like to respond to the representatives of Mr Huttunen and Mr Räsänen, followed by the Minister. — Mr Huttunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Regrettably, family policy discussions are often held only from the point of view of working life and the economy, and family wishes and everyday life are forgotten. At the same time, people wonder why the number of children born has fallen or why the family is being established at an ever later age. Family leave reform to improve the status of families has been the goal of the city centre for a long time. In fact, the reform of family leave was one of the key issues in the government negotiations in 2019. Our goal was to increase the equality of care and the possibility for fathers to care for a child at home, but this should be done in such a way that mothers' family leave is not shortened. The central demand was also not to cut home care support. Parents must have the opportunity to take care of the child at home for the first three years. The central objective was also that the reform should take greater account of the different forms of entrepreneurship and incentives for part-time work. Child care and partial employment must be better combined with family life. Family leave reform is not just an act of employment; it is a choice of values. I would like to warmly thank the Minister and the Government for this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u285	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u286	Madam President! Having listened to this debate, I am even more grateful for the fact that such a compromise has been reached within the government, because there has clearly been pressure — for example, from a group opposition — also to the fact that this system has become even stricter. In other words, it is a good thing that this family and child perspective has been raised. But I would point out that these quotas are still quite rigid. So both parents are entitled to 160 parental allowance. They may hand over 63 days to the other parent, but most of these days are non-donorable. In other words, they are, as it were, subject to compulsory quotas, and I believe that, in this regard too, the freedom of choice for families could have been given more consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u287	Secretary Sarkkinen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u288	Madam President! Families are free to choose, and flexibility is increased. No one is forced to stay home with their child. However, I believe that more and more fathers want to assume care responsibilities and also have longer periods of family leave at home with their children. Experience shows that increasing quotas has an important role to play in increasing equality in family leave. This is seen in Finland in previous reforms; once the quotas for fathers have been increased, the use of the free has increased. It is also seen from other countries. Thus, no one is forced to stay at home, and any earnings-related family leave for the mother will not be reduced. However, even if the maximum number of quota days were handed over in the family, still that inalienable quota for the father would increase from 54 to 97 days, which would almost double. In the light of previous experiences, then, we can expect the number of family leave periods used by fathers to increase. The fact that both parents have an equal period of family leave also sends out a message of equal parenting throughout society and working life. However, the family can still make decisions from their own perspective. The fact that both parents have an equal and equal period of family leave sends the message to employers that fathers can equally remain on long family leave. In this way, the discrimination against women against pregnancy and family leave can also be reduced and wage equality and pension equality can be improved in the long term. Increasing flexibility is also a key means of encouraging and enabling fathers to use family leave more strongly, and it helps entrepreneurship families, for example, in a very concrete way. It will also be easier to use half-days and reconcile part-time work. In addition to flexibility, different families are also taken into account. We know that families today are diverse, and this is taken into account. The system is being brought into modern times. I would like to reiterate that this is a reform of the family leave system, which is based on the starting point of families and children. This is not, in principle, an employment reform, and it is estimated that the impact on employment will be rather neutral. However, the effects of the reform will ultimately depend on behavioural changes. That is why this implementation is very important. We need footing in working life, early childhood education, clinics. This reform is an important step forward in modernising this system, and I would not say that this is a small reform. Yes, this is a very big, huge, structural reform. Mr President! As has been said here, home care support is not changed or limited, but the need to use home care support may be reduced,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u289	We shall now proceed to the list of — Representative Kari, Emma.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u290	Mr President! Thank you, Secretary Sarkkinen. As I said during the debate, the Greens have been pushing for the reform of Finnish family leave for a long time. This reform, which we have before us, is by no means complete, but at last there was a government that was able to carry out the reform. This reform is a huge step forward in the area of equality in family life. We wanted to strengthen the rights of fathers, to improve the position of women in the labour market. We wanted to improve the position of diverse families and strengthen the rights of different families. Here's what we're gonna do. Mr President! I often get messages from fathers who tell me what attitudes they have had to face in the workplace when they want to stay home with a small child. The attitude seems rather often to be such that a couple of weeks after the birth of the child, it is all right at home, but the rest is not. It is quite clear that it is not easy to be the first man in the workplace to stay home with a small child. It is not a question of Finnish fathers wanting to spend some less time with their children than fathers in other Nordic countries, it is not a question of fathers still not being seen as equal parents in Finland. At the moment, one in five Finnish fathers do not consider family-free at all. Less than half of the fathers stay home alone with the child on parental leave. This reform shows that a father has just as much right to have a baby as a mother, and this reform shows that the importance of fathers is finally recognised. Freedom of choice for families will not be reduced, flexibility will be increased. Mothers are not taken away, but the starting point is the father’s equal right to build that most important relationship in life with his own child. And from the studies we know that the more family leave is quotad for the other parent, the more they are home to take care of the child. And at least I have never heard a father who stayed home with a child regret this decision, and this reform supports the parenting of fathers. Mr President! The reform is also intended to improve the position of women in the labour market. Women continue to face discrimination because of the creation of a family. Recruitment of a young woman is seen as a risk, temporary work accumulates, careers break down, wage developments lag behind, and when a Finnish woman retires, the euro is less than 80 cents. No young woman should have to think about applying for a job as to whether, because of her age or gender, she is at risk of being excluded from employment. That is also why this reform is so important. Mr President! In Finland today, every third family is something other than a traditional nuclear family. Families are also one-parent families, adoptive families, stepfamily families, rainbow families, clover families, families with children, twin or third families and foster families. These families exist, and these laws must be for all of them. The starting point for this reform is that it treats all families equally. For this reason, it is also important that clear terms are used in legislation that excludes anyone. It is therefore a good thing that maternity and paternity terms are abolished and that in the future there will be talk of parental and pregnancy benefits. Every mother is still a mother, every father is still a father, and every child is still dear. Mr President! This reform will lead us towards a more equal parenthood and a more equal Finland. In the long term, however, we Greens see that more changes are needed. We support the 6+6+6 model, which would extend the period of parental leave to 18 months. It is important that together we boldly seek different ways to facilitate the everyday lives of families with children, improve the implementation of equality and take into account all kinds of families. However, this reform, which has now been carried out and presented, is a huge step in the right direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u291	Thank you. — 45 minutes in advance have been spent and the debate and proceedings are suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u292	And now we will continue with the debate on item 8 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary. — Mr Honkonen is absent. — Mr Kinnunen, Mr Mikko is present.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u293	Mr President! Children have a future. We should build Finland the most child-friendly and family-friendly country in the world. Family leave reform is a strong step in helping families with children. Few children have been born in Finland in the past decade. The birth statistics have been dark readings. We have been plagued by an atmosphere in which having a child may have been seen as a burden rather than a gift. Of course, not everyone's had a baby even though they wanted to. We need a child-friendly atmosphere in our country and a message that families with children are to be helped and supported. Such a message was, for example, that secondary education became free of charge. It's a big support for families. The birth rate started to rise slightly during the corona year, although we are still at a clearly lower level than we were a decade ago. However, the outlook is encouraging. We have taken steps in the right direction. Mr President! It has long been clear that we need a family leave reform. They tried it last season. At the time, the Centre did not accept cuts in family subsidies. Now the reform is starting to come about. This is a great time. The aim of the reform is to promote the right of the child to both parents and to increase the well-being of children and families. Both parents have a flexible opportunity to care for a baby and a small child. The central position is that this reform must cost money. Taking care of the well-being of families is not an act of employment for us; it is a choice of values. Finland is becoming increasingly child-friendly. The reform affects many of the laws that we are now dealing with. I am glad that the things that are important to the city centre are being realized. Fathers get more, but mothers don't get cut off. Dad gets a chance to be with the baby. The total number of parental allowance days is increasing. The home care allowance will remain, as will the private care support that my own family used years ago. We appreciate the freedom of choice for families in the reform. Mr President! I believe that the reform of family leave will bring the necessary flexibility to family life. By facilitating the reconciliation of work and family, this can also have positive effects on employment. It is a good thing that fathers and mothers share their freedom more and more equally. However, parents should not be forced to share days; family situations are very different. Let each family make their own decisions at the kitchen table. The model now being implemented includes the same number of parental allowance days for mother and father, but parents can give their own days to others. If Dad gives up the maximum number of days to her mother, her time off won't shorten the present. Parents can alternate between themselves in the care of a child. This was an important matter for yourself. It is also possible to negotiate and agree on parental leave periods with the employer. Parental allowance can also be applied for in part, half if you work part-time. When implementing the reform, different families and different family situations will be better taken into account. If twins or triplets are born in the family, the number of parental allowance days increases. The reform also takes into account situations where more children are born into the family within two years. In this case, it would be possible for parents to have unlimited parental allowance at the same time to care for children so that parents receive parental allowance on the basis of different children. These are all good steps in building a flexible, family-friendly Finland. The bill as a whole is to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u294	Like this. — and Mr Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u295	Mr President! The Centre is very pleased with the government's proposal on how to share parental responsibility for care and care after the baby is born. The central objective of the reform of family leave was that it should be an improvement rather than a weakening compared to the current situation. We also felt it was important to promote equality between mother and father, and to increase parental responsibility and family leave benefits. However, this was not allowed to happen by cutting from mothers. It was important for our group that home care support should not be undermined. Families must retain the right to make their own choice, which form of treatment is appropriate for their families. Families and their needs are different. The better they can be considered, the better the families and individuals within the family unit. There are mothers who soon want baby leave to work, and there are fathers who like to stop on their own career path to take care of the baby as long as it is legally and economically possible. On the other hand, we must also respect a more traditional model in which the mother bears the main responsibility for the care of the baby and wants to spend all the time at home caring for what is possible under the law. Your own home and your own parent’s care are the best care for your child without underestimating any other forms of care. On the contrary, we have a very high-quality early childhood education system in Finland. When the reform of family leave goes all the way to the law and the law, employers who have had a keen attitude towards the use of paternity and parental leave in the past will have to bend to the inevitable. Fathers may very well be out of work for a while, for the adults are really no one there irreplaceable. Rather, the time spent at home with a baby is a unique time that strengthens the life - long relationship between a father and a child. There's nothing to replace this time. Indeed, the best jobs have already been such that a male leader has shown genuine values that value families by taking care of himself. In these working communities, fathers talk about children and their affairs. In sharing everyday things in male groups, paternity is also strengthened and is a natural part of the person’s personality. Today’s grandfathers are at the age that the most interesting stages of working life are beginning to be behind us and can concentrate on Grandpa’s comfortable tasks if such pleasure is provided by life. Many of them may regret that at one time they were not more with their children when they were young. There must have been a lot of reasons. In the past decades, the role of a man as a home father was a radical idea from the point of view of both the employer's and the man's image of time, but often also the excluded option from the economic point of view. Fathers usually made more money, so money also solved this question. That is why the reform of family leave is a welcome historic reform, as it will in the longer term promote equality between men and women in pay and employment pensions. We are now taking a step towards a more equal working life in which the costs of parenting are more evenly shared between mother and father.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u296	Like this. — And Mrs Holopainen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u297	Mr President! This is a great reform, and it is great that this has finally been brought forward during this reign. Of course there would be development here too, but we can be pleased that this affects the rights of future parents. Income-related family leave increases, the number increases by 43 days. Both parents have the right to spend 6.5 months and one of them may give up 2.5 months of their own quota leave. A single parent can use all the free. At present, women spend the majority of family leave, such as 90% of home care support, and this of course weakens the labour market position and livelihood of young women, both short and long term, until retirement. Finnish parents are among the most exhausted in the world, and the birth rate fell even in the 2010s by a quarter and was separated from other Nordic countries. The high proportion of children without children as their own or unwanted choice has grown rapidly. According to the Family Federation, children are postponed or abandoned due to uncertainties such as employment, financial well-being, self-sustaining or relationships. What is stopping is that fewer children are born in Finland than people wish. Finland should be a more family-friendly and child-friendly society, and this reform is one way forward. So the reform of family leave that we are preparing will finally promote a more even distribution of family leave and equality in the labour market, as the quota of fathers or other parents for earnings-related leave increases. Women who work meta-labors tend to birthdays, book hobbies, run parental associations and children’s clothes. Of course some men do, too. More than a third of those in management positions are women. The higher the organisation goes, the fewer women are in both the private and the public sector. The share of women in board members of listed companies has increased in the 2010s. In 2020 the average number of women on board listed companies was 30 per cent. However, positive developments appear to have slowed down in recent years. Women's start-ups account for only about 1% of the funding raised, while Finland accounts for about 5%. In other words, in the new technology companies, in the growth companies sector, we also have a huge problem of inequality, and some of it is because women bear more responsibility for the family. About one third of women are self-employed. The number has remained at the same level for a decade, even though the level of education of women has risen. The woman's euro is still short. These are some of the reasons why this reform is so important. Women also face the issue of pregnancy discrimination in the labour market, which has been studied. This must also be accompanied by separate legislative reforms. It is great that this reform also brings certain flexibility. Different forms of family are treated more equally. There's still work to be done. We also treat those who have lost their children better than planned at the beginning of the reform. And, indeed, it is extremely important that the right of single parents to all these frees is involved. We also know statistically that children of single parents experience on average more challenges in life. Many fathers would like to be more involved in their children’s lives, and according to studies, quotas are the most effective way to control the allocation of family leave. We can talk about freedom of choice, of course, but every person lives as part of a society whose cultural practices and models affect every one of us's choices, and now we do not have to go very far in history when it is seen that the traditional responsibility for care has been very strongly for women and that it has been for men to work and lead society. Fortunately, this development has changed, and there are many ways in which Finland is ahead of us. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u298	Excuse me, Congressman Holopainen. This is where I used to tap into these times. — Representative Rehn-Kivi absent. — Mr Salmonikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u299	Mr President! The talk of parenting used to be about motherhood. In the social debate, the parenting of fathers only rose in the debates on equality between the 1960s and the 1970s. Fathers were entitled to a two - week paternity leave in 1978, but taking leave required the mother’s consent and shortened her mother’s freedom. In the early 1990s, paternity leave was slightly prolonged, and in 2013 the paternity leave system was reformed and paternity leave was extended to nine weeks. Even the current legislation on family leave allows for equal distribution between parents. Yet women still spend about 90% of all parental and care leave. Mr President! The reform of the government's family leave is an important equality measure and a step forward towards equal parenthood. This reform will create a 160-day parental leave quota for both parents, of which 63 days can be handed over to the other parent if you wish. This means that the government almost doubles parental leave for fathers. Mr President! A more even distribution of family leave and care responsibilities will strengthen the labour market position of women, while the expected value is that fathers will also use longer family leave in the future. Equality and equality in working life will also be strengthened and the gender pay and pension gap will be reduced. Increasing parental leave for fathers is an attempt to influence more generally the perceptions of parenthood and the division of work between the sexes in society. At the same time, parental leave, which is now growing for fathers, is a signal to employers that parental leave belongs equally to fathers and that fathers can also remain on long family leave. I would therefore like the reform to have a preventive effect on pregnancy discrimination when attitudes in working life change. Similarly, I would like to say that the reform would also protect young women in particular from unwarranted questions about raising a family in job interview situations. Mr President! The aim of the reform of family leave is to strengthen the idea of equal parenting. Parental parental leave is an incentive to think about and plan to share the child’s responsibility for care. International statistics and research evidence show that the use of fathers’ family leaves has increased ever since their quota share has increased. It is therefore expected that, with the reform of family leave, the use of paternity leave will continue to increase and become more widespread. Of course, no one is forced to remain on parental leave and take care of the child. The mother will continue to have the possibility of current earnings-related family leave. Mr President! The woman who took paternity leave is also in my circle of acquaintances. In a family of two mothers, parents may have been married to each other for a few years and two mothers may have been confirmed by the maternity law. It is very good that the appointments for parental leave are also finally being updated to this century. Mr President! Family leave reform is an important reform for us in the Left Alliance, and it is particularly gratifying that the reform was presented by the Left Alliance Minister of Social Affairs and Health. Thank you for preparing the reform for Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, who has been running the board for a couple of years, and thank you also to Hanna Sarkkinen, who has presented the matter. This reform is also important to me personally. Between 2006 and 2007, I worked in a project to promote equality in working life, when I became interested in family leave models in other Nordic countries and in the more enthusiastic use of paternity leave in Finland. There was a lot of talk about "Swedish papaws". After this, as the President of the Family Policy Working Group of the Left Alliance, when we established in the We also sought the 666 model of family leave in the spring of 2019. I myself was negotiating the government records of this family leave reform together with representatives of other government parties. The present reform of family leave is a very good compromise. It is a great leap in the right direction and we welcome it in the Left Alliance. Mr President! Family leave reform promotes the well-being of children and families. The goal is for the baby to be given care from both parents and to have a close relationship with both of them, from childhood to adulthood. In addition to strengthening equality, at best, family leave reform has a wide range of welfare-enhancing effects for children and families that cannot, and should not, be measured in terms of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u300	Like this. And Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u301	Mr President! The reform of family leave is certainly one of the most important reforms of this parliamentary term, and I warmly welcome it. There's a lot of good in the performance: The earnings-related share of parents is increasing. There will be more flexibility that families have especially wanted. Families are different but equal — it is important that this reform recognizes this — but of course there is much to be done about equal treatment between different families. Maybe Parliament can look at those things. But this reform was also disappointing. This is a well watered down form if you think that mothers spend 91 percent of parental leave and fathers 9 percent. Although since the beginning of time, when family leave was laid down, all the other shares, except maternity allowance periods, have also been available to fathers, this still remains the case. When I grow up, I find that aspect of equality very weak in this proposal. There is a need for women and men in working life, for fathers and mothers in parenting, and that is a lack of incentive for fathers to use family leave and the lack of means to compensate for the cost of parenting. When you look at the summary of opinions and the reasons for the proposal, you can rightly think that the proposal will not increase the use of parental leave in the end, and that is what the government has recognized when it has made those financial assessments. It is also fair to say that even if fathers use more family leave, it does not yet offset the cost of parenting, but remains the mother risk, i.e. the situation that a man has a family bonus, sex is a bonus, but for a woman sex is a risk and family is a risk. As long as mothers incur more costs for employers, discrimination against women in the labour market will continue. I do not think there is this millennium, this year, that we maintain systems that encourage men's pay and lead to women being recruited for fixed-term contracts. That is why I very much regret these two points: there is no incentive for fathers to use more family leave — this share of quotas alone does not take this issue forward quickly enough, as the government has shown in its own proposal — and there are no ways to offset the cost of parenting, which would be impressive, because the fact that fathers use a little more freedom does not eliminate the mother risk. After all, we had a lump sum that came before, but there is no new instrument of this kind. Personally, I think it is important that these smallest things here in Parliament should be corrected but not halted by this reform of family leave. As many representatives of the government party have said, this is by no means perfect. At the table again, the social partners, who were left out a little bit of this preparation, were not in every corner, and the preparation would be continued so that the cost of parenting could be reduced. I would suggest the model that exists in Sweden. In Sweden, parental insurance is provided. Parenthood is not a disease and therefore parental insurance would be removed from that share of health insurance. Some of the social partners have shown their interest in this. In other words, there would be a separate parental insurance policy and, regardless of whether a family-free mother or father is using it, it could compensate for the cost of parenting. Parental insurance — that is to say, the model in Sweden — would also remove the disadvantage that women's employers alone bear the greatest responsibility. Independent parental insurance would improve the transparency of the compensation system, make it clear what the cost of parenting will be for employers and employees, and parental insurance would also allow independent development of parental benefits. Employers, employees, entrepreneurs could participate in financial benefits on an equal footing, and minimum benefits could be paid by the state. I think it is very important for the various parties and social partners to consider this establishment of parental insurance. I say that we are particularly pleased to welcome these flexibility, which means that it is really important for families to have flexibility. Families, children and life situations are very different, and flexibility is exactly what families have wanted. For entrepreneurs, for example, flexibility enables better reconciliation between work and family. The fact that it is possible to use part-time allowance — there are different situations in which part-time work — has become a major problem. It was in that statement. I hope that this can be corrected here in the parliamentary work. The assembly has its own model for reforming the parental leave system. We would have liked this to have been reformed as a whole, but it was not possible to do so in this context. Mr President! To conclude, we believe that a successful reform of family leave is one where the child’s best interests are, in fact, a priority — that is what must be — but that the reform must improve equality between parents and working life. That's what we're missing here. It must increase family choice and flexibility and strengthen women's employment and labour market position. It is also in the best interests of the child to look at equality and the fact that mothers are on an equal footing in working life and that their labour market status is as good as that of men. And, of course, it is important that the reform of family leave increases the participation of children in early childhood education. There is no doubt that the results of the research show that high-quality early childhood education equalises the skills gap between children from different backgrounds, and the best interests of the child should be the most important. At the end of the day, I would like to say that it is absolutely essential to level out the responsibility for care, its distribution between parents more evenly. 91% and 9% are the figures at present. That is why we need a reform of family leave, which also promotes equality. It is important to take into account the different needs of families and to encourage work and entrepreneurship. It is also important for children to have equal participation of parents in working life [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u302	Like this. — Ledamot Löfström borta. — Mr Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u303	Mr President! This historic family leave reform certainly has a long way to go, but today shows that this road was worth walking. Politics matters, politics is above all value choices, and this is also very clear in this proposal. This reform has been a central objective for a long time and now it will be a reality. Reform is an improvement for families. Flexibility and freedom of choice for families are increasing, and at the same time equality is progressing. The reform is first and foremost a victory for families and is thus reflected positively in the whole Finnish society. The reform encourages fathers to keep longer family-free but does not force them to do so by quota but by maintaining their own freedom of choice and by being an improvement for families, not an operation. Freedoms for fathers are extended while the right of mothers to free is maintained. So the free healing of fathers is not from mothers. Nor will home care support be weakened, even though some have demanded it. Here, too, is the government's choice of values: Let's do a reform that's an improvement. Let us make a reform that will be carried out with respect to the wishes of families. Mr President! Families are different, situations, needs and hopes vary from family to life situation. This has been identified during the preparation of the presentation. The reform makes it possible to keep family leave more flexible. At the same time, it enables better sharing of care responsibilities among parents. It is important that these objectives be promoted not only through regulation and benefits, as this reform is now doing, but also through the development of the culture and management of working life. I encourage all jobs to build a more family-friendly atmosphere and managers to encourage fathers to keep their families free. Indeed, a strong family-friendly approach can also be a major competitive factor for organisations when recruiting skilled workers. It strengthens both the attractiveness of the workplace and the grip strength. Mr President! This reform is a strong message from a society in which children are welcome, the time spent with young children at home is valuable and families are welcomed. Well-being children and families are the most valuable capital in society. The well-being of families radiates to all aspects of life, including working life, and that is why it is worth investing in families. I am delighted and proud of this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u304	Like this. — and Mr Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u305	Mr President! In the early part of the evening's debate, family leave reform became a criticism that it does not steer sufficiently towards equality and, on the other hand, that too much is being directed towards family choices. I think it shows that this proposal is, in fact, a very balanced whole of freedom to choose and control quotas. Childhood does not become a renewal, and therefore family leave reform cannot serve only the needs of working life, but improving the equality of fathers in the family promotes the equality of mothers in working life — and in this equation, however, the greatest winner is a child who receives more care and attention from both parents. The aim of the reform is to ensure that family leave and care responsibilities are equally shared between both parents. The quotas are being studied to increase this, and equality is progressing through quotas. Today, women use the majority of the free, as has been said many times in this Chamber. This weakens the labour market position of women and affects their livelihoods throughout their lives, even up to their future pensions. Therefore, the purpose of the law is to increase the well-being and equality of children and families. The fact that both parents create a close relationship with the child right from the start and are responsible for the care of the child helps to establish a close relationship between the child and the parent, which has far - reaching effects. The pay gap between women and men is often justified by the extra costs of motherhood for the employer. The costs have long been compensated by various means, but the accuracy of the match has not been optimal. And if this argument does not go away now, as we saw in this Chamber that it will not go away, it will at least be reduced because the quotas of fathers will increase the free use of fathers and thus also bring equality to work and a basis for a better wage equality. The reform will also make the use of family leave more flexible. It can be used in more parts or part-time, thus facilitating the reconciliation of work and family life and helping families to cope with everyday life. I personally am particularly pleased about these flexibilitys because the current system is too rigid. In addition, the law takes better account of the needs of different families. It is not just the law of fathers and mothers, but the law of all kinds of families and parents. The starting point of the reform has been the increase in the well-being of families and children. For one reason or another, it is not possible for all families to share family leave or parental leave equally between both parents, and for this reason a model has been drawn in which a parent can give a certain number of his or her own parental allowance days to one parent or spouse, for example. Compared to the current situation, however, this possibility of giving up does not lead to a deterioration in the status of families, but rather to an improvement, as has been pointed out in this Chamber. The issue of family leave reform has also been criticised for not sufficiently supporting the availability of labour. True, it may be assumed that shorter leave or the abolition of home care support would bring women better into the labour market. Simulation models that assess the impact on employment tend to provide good employment incentives in the event of cuts in social security or benefits. But this law has not been adopted alone to strengthen the labour market. It's part of a better family policy. It's an investment in families with children. Home care support is mainly used for one year, and after all, the employment impact of halving home care support, for example, could be much lower than expected, as it would apply to a smaller part than perhaps once thought. The total abolition of aid would be a big change. It would have a bigger impact on labour supply, but it is then a bigger thing for families and small families with children. There seems to be little support for it, not among families, but fortunately not in this Chamber either. Just changes in the law do not guarantee equality in practice. We have had equal pay legislation since 1963. Even under the current law, fathers would be able to use much more freedom, but we are prisoners of history and, in part, of the economy. Attitudes affecting the use of freedom and lower pay levels for women. However, changes in the law are one way to change the world. They aim to encourage and enable a more equitable sharing of the free, while at the same time giving a strong indication of the need for equality in both parenthood and working life, thus contributing to attitudes and sexual practices. A change of attitude is needed in families, but also in the workplace, and it is important how parents, especially men, are treated: will fathers be encouraged to remain free, including those who are longer free? The authorities, especially the maternity clinic services, face future parents and therefore play a key role in promoting equality between parents. Ladies and gentlemen, the movements of one thing are important, but the legislation will ensure that the various needs are balanced fairly. The safe beginning of a child’s life is the best equality act for society as a whole, and the potential employment impact is then added bonus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u306	Like this. — Ledamot Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u307	Mr President, ärade talman! Nu behandlas en mycket väntad reform, famileledighetsreformen, som är en mycket viktig grj för oss i SFP. Reformen är framför allt en satsning på barnfabillioner i vårt land, och den nya fabileledighetsmodellen behandlar barn Jämlikt Oberoende av familijeform, med barnet i focus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u308	Mr President! Finally, we have a reform of family leave which is genuinely and concretely aimed at promoting equality between men and women in working life and at facilitating the reconciliation of work and family life. The aim is to ensure that family leave and care responsibilities are evenly distributed among both parents in the family. Equality and equality in working life will be strengthened, and the gender pay gap will be reduced. The opportunities for family choice and flexibility in keeping family leave are now being increased, and this is important if the law is to genuinely respond to the different situations and needs of families. The reform will be implemented in such a way that it treats everyone equally, including diverse families, taking into account the different forms of entrepreneurship. Family leave reform is an important investment in families with children. The reform will strengthen the livelihoods of families as earnings-related family leave is extended and more flexibility becomes available. The reform will also improve gender equality as care responsibilities are shared more evenly. On the other hand, although the assumption remains that the free parents are equally divided, the parent still retains the right and the possibility of giving part of his own quota to the child’s other parent if he wishes. This reform not only strengthens equality and family equality, but also demonstrates the value base of this government's child-friendly family, but also improves equality between women and men in working life by allowing for a more even distribution of family leave and by strengthening the labour market position of women. Mr President! There has also been talk of home care support in this Chamber today, and I would also like to say that the undersigned is also pleased that the family retains the right to care for their children at home if it wishes, with this home care support. I myself have been able to stay home with children in my day with the help of home care, and I am, of course, very grateful for this. At the time, home motherhood was possible in my life and also in many ways a reasonable and functional solution for our family’s everyday life, although being financially supported by home care was really challenging in a multi children’s family. Personally, I would like to raise home care support to at least the current level of basic safety, because caring for your own children is also very important work and should be more appreciated than it is at present. Perhaps basic income would also make it easier for families with children, for example by better combining part-time work with home care for young children under the age of three. Mr President! However, the fact is that in 2020 mothers spent 89% of all parental allowance days. The fact that women use the majority of these liberals weakens the labour market position of women in particular and also their livelihoods both in the short term and in the long term. Thus, the aim of the reform of family leave is to achieve a more even distribution of family responsibilities for childcare between parents. This aims to achieve equality between women and men, both within families and in working life, thereby reducing the pay and pension gap between women and men. While the reform aims to strengthen the economic livelihood of families and equal value between the sexes, the aim is also to increase the immaterial well-being of children and families. Clearly, when both parents establish a close relationship with the child right from the start and are in charge of the child’s care together, it contributes to a close relationship between the child and the parent, and this will naturally have far-reaching effects. That is why it is important that both parents have equal rights and opportunities to spend time with their children. According to the Nordic study, both fathers and mothers were more satisfied with their relationship when the responsibilities and work related to the care of the child were shared equally. Of course, parents’ satisfaction with a relationship is often reflected in children. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that it is great that the reform of family leave also introduces a new five-day family-care leave for an employee whose family needs substantial assistance or support because of a significant decrease in functional capacity. The worker is also entitled to an equivalent leave due to the care provided by the person referred to above. Mr President! This reform is not complete either. The Left Alliance, like many other parties and with many women's organisations, has for a long time been promoting the so-called 6+6+6 model, which, at least not yet being implemented. However, in any case, this proposal is an historic and ‘large family policy act’, such as a colleague’s representative. In his own speech, Kivisaari was very well characterised by reform. Thank you, therefore, to this government and especially to Mr Pekonen and Mr Sarkkinen for their excellent work on equality and the kindness of families with children. Both parents, including the father, have the right to have time with their children.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u310	Mr President! Based on studies and international comparisons, the quotas for parental leave allocated to the father are the most effective way of increasing the participation of fathers in the use of family leave. This legislative change will promote equality, but there should also be a change of attitude in society and in working life. Appreciation for caring for a child and spending time with a child should be seen as the benefit of society as a whole. The reform of family leave is also a strong signal to the workplace that parental leave belongs equally to fathers and that fathers can also remain on longer family leave. This model increases the freedom and choice of parents. There is greater flexibility in the use of parental funds according to the situation and needs of the family.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u311	Mr President! The reform of family leave has long been awaited. I still remember yesterday's conversation with the new fathers when they wanted to be home with the children during baby and toddler times, but that was not possible at that time, ten years ago. But now, finally, a step towards a more diverse time for young children is closer, thanks to the Marin government. This reform has been carried out for a long time and has been discussed at least throughout the 21st century. Finally, we are moving from words to deeds. This reform will also give us flexibility in the management of different families and different kinds of everyday life. Shifting or studying brings a rhythm different from 7 to 16 days. Mr President! However, in the SDP, we are most pleased that this is an act of equality: equality for families, for women the possibility of equal pay and for their own better pensions, for men the opportunity to participate in baby care, but also for equal opportunities for entrepreneurs, plural families, one-parent families, adoption families, rainbow families, student families — equality for every family.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u312	All right. — and Mr Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u313	Mr President! We have a proposal from the Government for legislation amending the Health Insurance Act, the Employment Contracts Act and the Act on Early Education and related laws. This proposal aims to share the cost of parental allowance and the time of parenting more equally between parents and their employers. I personally see that this proposal strengthens the position of women in the labour market, but here, in the guidance of this law, this flexibility has been stretched to the limit. Mr President! ‘The proposal for a reform of the health Parental allowances under the bill would be special pregnancy allowance, pregnancy allowance and parental allowance. Parental allowance would normally be paid on the basis of one child for a total of 320 working days. If the child had two parents entitled to parental allowance, both parents would have the right to use half of the parental allowance days, i.e. 160 parental allowance days.’ Mr President, there is now a sentence that I do not fully understand: ‘The parent could surrender his or her parental allowance quota to a parent of up to 63 parents day after day, the parent of a parent who is a parent of a parent of a parent of a child. “ This is quite exceptional, and this is not right for this sort of conservative distribution. I do not know how, then, it will be determined later whether any child support will come to these people to whom this parental allowance has been given. “Parent money could be used for the time you want, until the Parental parental allowance rights would, as a rule, be determined on the same basis regardless of the family form. Before the beginning of the parental allowance entitlement, a pregnant insured person would be entitled to an allowance for 40 working days.’ Mr President! This first part did sound like a very green-left liberalism, but then, when I got a little closer to it, I was surprised that this green-left agenda has not gone all the way to the finish line here. There is talk here of sexual practices, of different families. The speeches have highlighted diverse families, equality, equality. Do you think the Non-Discrimination Commissioner has been through this? They're talking about paternity allowance and maternity allowance. I think it refers very strongly to men and women, and so it is the law of fathers and mothers. A few years ago, even the textbook said that a man can give birth, and it has not been taken into account here at all. Other genders have also been forgotten about power. According to someone, there are dozens of them. Is it, after all, that in government a party has turned against the fact that, in the end, only a man and a woman or a mother and a father have ended up here? Mr President, is it true that this government proposal finally recognises that only a woman can give birth, which is why she is called a mother? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u314	Thank you. — Mr Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u315	Mr President! It is the result of a long wait that Parliament finally got the reform of the family leave process. This expectation has taken more than nine months. Much the same is true in this government proposal as in the Family and Working Life Guidelines of the Coalition Party, which we have already prepared in 2015, but much remains to be done. Our society has a lot to do to make jobs and our society as a whole more child-friendly, but it also has to do with the lyrics: Who is “staying ” with children? I think that there have been a lot of jobs and a lot more than a child care place in the past,and I think that the question that ‘Migrating to parental or child-care leave’—sometime before I began as a Member I started my career 25 years ago as a dishwasher in a restaurant. It was a good job for a high school student, and for the first time I heard my mother, who was an entrepreneur, talking about the mishap faced by women’s employers, namely that mothers’ employers pay more for parenting than their fathers’ employers. This is particularly true of thousands of micro, small and female-dominated entrepreneurs and employers, and this is still unfair. This is therefore an employer's so-called'mother risk', which is being minimised in many ways. It undermines wage developments and increases deadlines in women-dominated sectors, and this unfairness affects almost all women at some point in their working lives, and this has been long awaited for change. Young women, too, have the right to longer working relationships and the euro, rather than a number of short-term jobs. The fact that since the 1990s many employers, especially in the social welfare and health sector, have changed from public to private, also increases the risk of mothers. Thus, as an employer in women-dominated sectors, society no longer carries the risk of a mother; instead of a municipality or state, an employer is a company or, for example, a third-sector organisation. There are many advantages to the reform and proposal of the government on family leave, such as longer parental leave and the flexibility that families need — of course, additional quotas that share opinions. However, the government model of family leave still does not recognise and facilitate the labour market position of women at the level that it could do so, but, on the contrary, it contributes to increasing employers' responsibility for the cost of parenting, as the parental allowance period is extending. Women entrepreneurs and young women deserve measures to promote equality in the labour market and this would be achieved by genuinely reducing the risk of the employer's mother. It is unfortunate that the proposal of the Marin government does not recognise it or directly alleviates the burden of women's employers and female entrepreneurs on the financial responsibility of motherhood. According to various calculations, the cost of the baby is now approximately EUR 12,000 to EUR 17500 for the mother’s employer. They consist, inter alia, of absences due to pregnancy, parental leave, the remuneration of a substitute and child care leave for a sick child. During the last parliamentary term, we made a small correction to this, i.e. starting in 2017, the employer of a mother returning from family leave has been paid a lump sum of EUR 2500, and that is a step in the right direction. A fair solution would be to eliminate the so-called'mother risk' entirely from women's employers and in the longer term, in this decade, the cost of parenting would be passed on to society in full, including for the first two or three months and for the replacement's remuneration and for the sick child's care leave. Most of the family leave is really used by mothers. This reform will certainly contribute to the increase in the share of family leave used by fathers, but before we reach those goals of the government proposal, it would have been reasonable for this so-called baby allowance to have been increased until much of the family leave was also used by fathers. Instead of heavy quotas, it would have been good to change family leave so that subsidies and free people respond flexibly to the needs of families and encourage equal parenting. Fortunately, however, more attention is now being paid to studies and work, as well as to those outside the labour market. As a mother of two children, I know that because of the child and the situation in work and life, there can also be very different needs in the same family at different times. Society and our co-legislators should not over-determine which form of care or support is the best and most effective in what life situation, and in addition, the financial responsibility for family leave must be transferred from employers to society. The direction of the last decade has been the opposite. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u316	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. - Minister Andersson, please. The minister's not here. Let's move on. Congressman Kivisaari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u317	Mr President! When a child pulls his schoolmate out of his hair or a high school student slaps his classmates in the face during recess, there is talk of bullying at school. Under the same term, there's a whole bunch of other things small people do. Can bullying be a crime? Oh, and, unfortunately, often it is. In schools, illegal acts are too often treated as bullying when it comes to acts of violence. It's not the teachers' fault. That is the reason for the shushing of society, and it has been given to the teachers to solve it: you take care of it, and why are you not taking care of it? There is a war against bullying in many municipalities. The joint cooperation model of the city of Seinäjoki is included in the school plan to protect students from violence, bullying and harassment. It's a good model. It has been developed by grass-roots professionals. In South Karelia, a group of representatives from schools, police, social services and municipalities recently decided to tackle school violence with a sledgehammer. Clearly illegal acts committed in schools were transferred directly to the police or social services, for example. Lawless acts included, for example, assault, illegal threats, theft, or violation of communications secrecy. The crimes were not called a crime because a child under the age of 15 is not responsible for his or her actions in criminal law. This is how the South Karelia model works: If a child under the age of 15 commits an unlawful act at school, a criminal report will be made. The perpetrator is directed to a group that includes the perpetrator and the victim as well as the guardians of both, the police and the legal representative of young people. It is clear from South Karelia that, as a rule, friendly reasoning has worked and the same person has not had to come back to the session. So a child and a youth have been assigned a safe seat. The essence of the operating model is therefore to distinguish between bullying and unlawful acts. Cases that satisfy the characteristics of a crime are too often treated as bullying, much like "boys" in the style. A high school student who, for example, has been swimming his friend's head in a toilet does not need to be reminded of the Nice School principles, but rather of taking responsibility for his actions. President! Too often, then, teachers try to solve a heavy series of acts of violence that society imposes upon them. It's been too much to understand when I should've gone out of my way. Man’s growth is not always ironing, but sometimes also the authority of an adult. President! The Government's proposal is part of the Government's programme of measures to prevent bullying, violence and harassment. The Government's proposal specifies the rules on refusal of teaching in order to give the student the support he needs during the period of refusal and when returning to education. As regards secondary education, the law would include the obligation for teachers and principals to report any harassment, bullying or violence at school or on their way to school. It shall be notified to the guardians or other legal representatives of the pupils and pupils affected by the act. The Government's proposal also improves the availability of internal disciplinary measures by educational institutions in serious cases where the student has been subjected to criminal proceedings. These are steps in the right direction. President! Finally, I also saw a small confession. On Thursday last week, the Government approved a change in the decree, which also empowers the principals to remove the disturbing or unsafe student from the classroom or from the school’s state. I have been headmaster for a long time before being a member of the parliament and have removed dozens of disturbing students from the classroom, if not hundreds of times. I am not saying this with pride or boasting, but to say that legislation does not always keep up with realism in the real world. Now that's gonna change, too. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u318	Thank you. — In the absence of Mr Honkonen, in the absence of Mr Sankelo, in the absence of Mr Saramo. — Representative Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u319	Mr President! This Government proposal to amend the Basic Education Act, the Vocational Education Act, the High School Act and the Preparatory Education Act contains some good things and is a bill that promotes teaching activities as a general rule. In this regard, education could be refused not only for the remaining day but also for the next working day when it makes sense to calm the situation there in the school environment, and the student must be given the opportunity to have a personal discussion with the student care psychologist or curator and to arrange for other support needed to participate in the education. At this point in my mind, I would almost like to assume that there should be an obligation to organise the support and the obligation to provide the support of curators and psychologists, because these very complex situations are and require monitoring and long-term and multi-professional cooperation. This bill has also focused attention on the prevention of bullying, which is important, and attention is also paid to bullying on school trips. In this context, however, I would like to highlight the fight against bullying and above all what has been done about it: unfortunately, in this period of government, there have been no actual reforms in schools to prevent bullying. In particular, I would like to look forward to further improving cooperation between the authorities, where, of course, the resources of the police are also important, so that we can work together with the social services, the school, the health services and the police. We need to address and prevent bullying situations at an early stage and also to direct both the victim and the perpetrator to the necessary care and services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u320	Thank you. — Absent representative Ari Koponen. — — — — Congressman Filatov, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u321	Mr President! The bullying situation is never between equal schoolchildren, but in it one is always outnumbered and defenceless, whether it be physical size or age or something else, and between children these things cannot be solved. It is the responsibility of adults, and that is why school must also have instruments to tackle bullying. We know that we have had rather shocking situations that have made us wonder what the right tools are. In my opinion, this law has sought clarification as to how bullying can be tackled, but in the best interests of the child. I would like to stress that it is also a question of knowledge and desire, of the fact that teachers and other school staff have the necessary skills to intervene in these situations and that there is a climate in which they really are being addressed at school. This legislation alone does not solve matters, but it is a good tool and a step forward in the sense that schools also have the tools and clear rules to tackle bullying.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u322	Thank you. — Representative Ollikainen absent. — — — — Congressman Hänninen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u323	Mr President! It is extremely important that we have zero tolerance for all forms of discrimination, bullying and racism, and that is particularly important when we talk about young children and young people. But of course it also applies to us all and everywhere. It is important that we also set an example that we do not discriminate against anyone or talk about each other in a demeaning way, but that we respect and respect each other. Mr President! Prime Minister Sanna Marin's government programme includes a promise of non-discrimination, according to which Finland has zero tolerance for bullying and racism. This law proposes to amend disciplinary provisions in order to address bullying, harassment and violence in a timely manner, to strengthen the student's legal status and to secure a safe learning environment for all at school. The Government's proposal is part of the Government's programme of measures to prevent bullying, violence and harassment. In line with the objective of the Government Programme, every child and young person has the right to immunity, and in order to achieve this objective, sexual education is strengthened and a programme of measures is drawn up to reduce bullying and loneliness. It is also extremely important to identify the different forms of bullying that have already been mentioned, that is to say, that bullying can also be excluding from the group of friends, it can be understatement, and unfortunately it is more and more of the social media writing and on different platforms from picking on or remarking on others, and we should be able to intervene in this too, to identify the different forms of bullying and to deal with them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u324	And Congressman Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u325	Mr President! The safety of schools and the well-being of children and young people are not created by surveillance cameras or more stringent disciplinary measures, but by community, jointly agreed and controlled rules and individual encounters. A sense of security also arises from freedom to be oneself without fear of discrimination or harassment. In order to achieve these goals in every school, the school resource must be sufficient. There has now been a austerity trend — in which schools have abandoned assistants, reduced human resources and support measures, increased size of groups — leading to a situation where not all of these can be tackled, where teachers or staff are unable to cope, are not able to make time, or there is no knowledge or ability to learn new content, including by staff. In other words, it is essential to secure adequate resources for schools and then have common rules of play and a culture of action. Bullying and violence must be an absolute zero tolerance. Promoting well-being and peace of work, preventing loneliness and bullying, and supporting learning and the well-being of the mind must be part of all pedagogical activities. Good working conditions contribute to the well-being of the entire school community. Mr President! The law now sets out the principle of priority in the best interests of the child and the age of disciplinary action. The student’s obligation not to harass or endanger safety will be specified. The principal will be given the right to intervene in disturbing behaviour and to determine detention, and the principal will be given the opportunity to refuse teaching for two days instead of the previous working day only. This paragraph adds the obligation to report bullying to the pupil's guardians also in secondary education. I think this is very important so that this information about bullying also ends up with adults and guardians and does not remain hidden. The legislative changes are part of a broad programme of measures to reduce bullying and loneliness, which strengthens staff skills in tackling bullying and supports the emotional and interaction skills of children and young people. Thank you to the Minister for the progress of legislation to tackle bullying.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u326	Thank you. — Representative Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u327	Mr President! It is to be welcomed that this legislation has arrived in Parliament to prevent child bullying, bullying and the child being left alone. This was an excellent working group preparation during the previous parliamentary term, and then during this parliamentary term we also went through these. It was good that all the parliamentary groups were involved in this. Now that this has come to Parliament, this law must be carefully dealt with, and I am sure that the opposition parties will have a say in this. But basically, it's really good that this is here. I want to say that what a child learns at home and in early childhood education, in day care, he can do at school. That is why the activities are also important for the early education, the very early stage in which the interaction skills are learned. I wanted to bring it up here. Mr President! Then my concern is that the government, on the one hand, will give and on the other hand will take. In other words, the proposal to transfer student care to social welfare and health care in the welfare area is quite the wrong direction. After all, this is not just an administrative transfer, but, in practice, the draft law is fundamentally changing the way in which the student care is carried out, and it is undoubtedly going to be on the side of medicalisation, where there should be resources to support the child and young people in their normal growth and development. I am truly sorry that neither teachers nor principals were heard. I hope that, when the repair series for the social welfare reform comes, one of the key points is to cancel that decision on student care. It's really part of the school assignment. I am concerned that this reform will weaken the ability of schoolchildren to prevent bullying and different forms of harmful behaviour. But this bill is very welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u328	Secretary Andersson, three minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u329	Mr President! Thank you for your excellent contributions. It is very important that this debate can be held together in this Chamber, because I personally see that one of the most important tasks of this society is that we can safeguard the right of every child to feel the joy of learning and also the right to feel a sense of belonging during the school day. As has been shown in this speech by representatives, the Government Programme includes a promise of non-discrimination, according to which Finland has zero tolerance for bullying and racism. In order to achieve these objectives, this programme of measures was launched in January this year to prevent bullying, violence and harassment. In the preparation of this programme, good cooperation has been carried out with various ministries, stakeholders and various parties, with the participation of the opposition on a parliamentary basis. Contrary to what was claimed here by the opposition, concrete acts and measures to prevent bullying and school violence have therefore been specifically sought during this reign. This extensive expert report was carried out during the previous parliamentary term. There was a previous working group sitting at the Ministry of Education and Culture, but unfortunately the previous government did not have much time to implement any of the proposals made by the working group, and that is why this work will now continue during this parliamentary term, when these changes are actually being implemented. This government proposal now under discussion is therefore part of this extensive programme of measures, and these legislative proposals are intended to clarify and correct the provisions of the education system in order to tackle bullying in a timely manner. In addition, the aim is to strengthen the student’s legal status and to secure a safe learning environment for all at school. As part of this legislative process, the Ministry of Education and Culture also organised a representative consultation of children and young people. I would like to raise one more point here, which was also referred to by the representatives in their own speeches. In other words, the law on vocational education and the law on upper secondary school is now being amended in accordance with the parliamentary bill to provide for the obligation of the teacher or principal to notify the guardian or other legal representative of any harassment, bullying or violence that has occurred in or on the way to school. I believe that this is an important indication of how it is possible to take the initiatives and proposals of the parliamentarians into account in the drafting of the law. I would also like to thank all the representatives who were involved in signing this bill and taking it forward. And I'm glad now that I'm a minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u330	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Representative Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u331	Mr President! This Government bill proposes to amend Article 58d of the Act on Disease Control. However, there is a problem with the amendment of the article, since this article has already caused a lot of problems and ambiguity between the Regional State Administrative Agency and the operators, and therefore the most sensible thing would be to repeal this section altogether. The cultural and event sector has been subjected to excessive restrictions and has been exacerbated by the two-metre security gap associated with this proposal. The abolition of the security gap in this bill sounds good, of course, and it is good that no precise security distance has been defined, but this leaves a very wide scope for interpretation for regional government agencies as to how this law is interpreted, what is the necessary security interval and how it is applied in different parts of Finland. The Coalition Party has objected to this bill that it would make more sense to repeal this 58 d altogether. The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media also agreed, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also gave it the green light, but this was not the end of the committee, despite the fact that our large-scale group of experts was also strongly in favour of the repeal of this section. I would like to point out here that when expert opinions were requested from representatives of the sector, organisations, operators, the Regional State Administrative Agency and others, they asked for an opinion on the government's proposal. In the same way, the Committee on Education and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also asked for them. In other words, it was not asked to take a position on the repeal of this paragraph, but, nevertheless, many of the authors raised this point and proposed it themselves. We did indeed object to this, and we have already voted on the fact that we proposed that our proposal should be included as a base proposal. Today, on this point, I will now make the proposals for statements in the motion that has been discussed, and they will read as follows: ‘The Parliament shall require that the Board of ‘The Commission requires that the Government not delay a proposal to ensure the uniform treatment of traders,organisations, associations and public In the third place, ‘the Board of Directors shall require that, without delay,the proposal for a cost scale or a
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u332	Thank you. — Representative Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u333	Mr President! I support the proposals made by Mr Laiho and note that it was a huge disappointment that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health concluded that Article 58d It was not abrogated but adopted the wording of the article in the government proposal which, according to several legal scholars, is at risk of leading to a more confused situation. It was also noteworthy that the Committee on Education and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs gave the green light to the repeal of that section. There were regional government authorities, a number of experts who considered it justified that the section should be repealed and not modified as in the government proposal. There was a real danger that that section would lead from a ditch to an ally. It was very disappointing that the field of culture and events was not consulted. That is one of the areas most affected by the corona restrictions, and many times government parties have promised to hear about this area, but when it is the place for action, those acts will not be done. Several legal scholars stated that it seems that the government has not quite understood what points in the legislation have led to this very unequal treatment, which has become extremely costly in human and economic terms in the field of events. I say, President, that we understand that restrictions are needed, that the event and culture sectors understand that restrictions are needed, but they must be fair and proportionate. In conclusion, I say that, as the National Institute for Health and Welfare has doubted it and has assessed whether the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, in this changed situation, has taken sufficient account of the proportionality and necessity of the various restrictive measures, this is also the argument that I support them. Statements made by the skinny. I think they are very well-founded. I hope that, in tomorrow's vote, you representatives of the government parties — you, who on those steps promised to hear about events and culture — will give your support to these statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u334	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u335	Mr President! This Article 58d After all, there has been some confusion in this Act on infectious diseases. Here in Parliament, too, it has divided a few people and different committees, and I am happy to say that the Committee on Culture was completely unanimous in this. We did indeed make a statement in which we unanimously proposed that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health should now seriously consider deleting this whole section. We certainly did not think that it would be somehow detrimental to safety, to health safety, because all the other articles remained there, although they became such criticism in expert feedback that all the a's, b's and c's of Section 58 should be reviewed. Then, of course, there was the hope that the whole infectious disease law would be passed, and I also understand: after all this, it will have to be passed. But I would like to say that, as a minister who had himself changed the Act on communicable diseases in his day, I know that there is much in it that can be done to increase health safety, even though Article 58d They would've taken it out of there. There's a lot of tools left in the open. And when the avi herself felt that this only causes confusion and that there might be inequality in different areas, it would have been good to take it away. It is a good thing that we are voting here tomorrow, or because we are voting now, and then we will see what we think about this. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs was unanimous in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u336	Thank you. — Representative Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u337	Mr President! Here I would like to draw attention to our proposal for a statement 1, in which Parliament requires that the government bring a proposal to Parliament without delay — excuse me, I mean two — to ensure a uniform interpretation of Article 58 of the Act on communicable diseases. Now, as Mr Risikko has pointed out here, there is a disproportionate constraint on this D. There is also a different practice in that, given the government's interest rate strategy, these are not in line with the current government's interest rate strategy, which no longer refers to the incidence, but Article 58 specifically refers to the incidence, and they are not synchronized. It would therefore be necessary for the Government to bring Article 58 in its entirety to Parliament for review and regulation. Of course, this whole infectious disease law would certainly need to be updated for future threats in such a way that, even if any viral or bacterial disease comes, it can work. But it would be necessary to correct these most pressing issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u338	Thank you. Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u339	Mr President! Let's just be brief. After all, in this same hearing, we have seen the fact that we are building a risk assessment table of this kind, which has caused a great deal of confusion and also fear in the cultural and event field, which has already been tried with a rather cold hand. We too have often been said that we must be proportionate and precise and not just spat out the constraints, we must tailor and give some thought to what type of opportunity we are dealing with. A risk assessment table of this kind is now being built. Well, I will not take such a final position on it yet, but it does sound — what I have learned about it — very special now, once again, to this situation. We will hear about it this week when this corona certificate is being reviewed here and wondering what the benefit is, and I see that it has an enormously good purpose, this corona passport, or whatever it is to be called. It has a good purpose, but if it then comes up with special details on the basis of which ‘it’ will then again assess all these events and which are very unequal to the different sectors and events, thenthis will be all the more so. But it is hoped that reason will prevail here in Parliament, too, with regard to these, that these areas will now be genuinely considered. The cultural sector also has a wide range of competences and should therefore always be related to it, also in view of the regional disease situation. Let us see what we can do, and I trust that this Chamber will know what needs to be done. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u340	Thank you. — And Mr Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u341	Mr President! Here again, I would like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, Mrs Risikko, for the fact that the cultural and event side has been taken up, as the Committee on Culture should. I think that would be a task for the whole of Parliament. Strong concerns have come especially from the music industry, artists, actors and entrepreneurs who organise concerts. In other words, this assessment table, which I am sure the representatives of the government parties have been familiar with, seems, at least on the basis of the information it has received and what we have been dealing with in the opposition, to place yet another sector in a very unequal situation. Looks like they're going in the wrong direction, too, and they're going in the wrong direction. I would now appeal to the representatives of the government parties across the board to do so, and together with the support of the Committee on Culture and Education and with the help of the whole Parliament, we can ensure that the corona does not die of culture or of the wrong actions — I say here — which the government has brought in its presentations. In other words, restrictions have been needed, but there has been no need, at least on the part of the opposition, for the cultural and event sectors to be treated unequally. It's been a real accident. Especially in difficult times, culture is needed, and the functioning of culture must be made possible. A fine speech was made by the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and I trust that there will be a special focus on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u342	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. The proceedings were suspended at the sitting on 17 September. I'm opening a conversation. Congressman Park, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u343	Mr President! I dealt with, among other things, the unconventional monetary policy and also the planned digital central bank money in previous reports by the Banking Council, and this time I am actually going to a rather special theme which the Bank of Finland has also dealt with several years ago. It deals with the Bank of Finland’s gold reserves, which the Bank has slightly over 49 tonnes. The gold reserves are presented in the Bank of Finland’s balance sheet, where the current value of gold and gold receivables has been recognised as EUR 2335 million in August 2021. The currency value of gold varies, but the physical tonnage remains the same. The majority of the Bank of Finland’s gold reserves are geographically distributed in the rest of the world. According to data published by the Bank of Finland in 2013, 51 per cent of the reserves are in the UK, the Bank of England, 20 per cent in Sweden, 18 per cent in the United States, 7 per cent in Switzerland, and 4 per cent of the gold reserves are preserved in Finland. Physical gold itself does not include counterparty risk, but is safe as long as it is kept safe. However, gold storage may involve risks if it is engaged in so-called leasing activities. When gold is lent to the market, gold becomes a gold asset and a counterparty risk arises from repayment. Even in the Bank of Finland’s balance sheet, the top item on the assets side is the item “Gold and gold receivables” according to the general presentation of the central banks’ balance sheets. In turn, leasing interest can be used to achieve investment returns or to cover the cost of depositing gold. London, in particular, is known as the center of gold leasing. The gold market is weakly transparent. Transactions in different financial instruments may exceed the volume of trade in actual underlying assets, in this case physical metal, multiplely. A particularly difficult situation arises if physical gold is subject to several requirements and not allocated by serial number. Such a situation may arise if the loaned gold has been sold on several occasions, possibly with leverage, for example through so-called repo contracts, repurchase agreements. The arrangement normally rolls forward, but if, at the same time, a number of parties demand the specific physical gold back, there may not be enough margin for the contracts as physical gold, at least for a moment, i.e. a liquidity problem. This can lead to a situation similar to the traditional banking rush in the gold market. A similar situation arose in the late 1960s when the price of gold had long been considered artificially undervalued. As a result, the London gold market fell into payment difficulties and the so-called London Gold Pool, the eight central banks, collapsed. Antti Kuusterä and Juha Accurate events have been described in their work on the history of the Bank of Finland. So it is not a matter of day politics, but rather of long-term and slow events in this area. Mr President! The gold market is significant in volume and leasing and leveraged instruments are widely used. It is therefore appropriate to consider the possible contractual risks to storage, if any. The Bank of Finland's Annual Report, for example, stated in 2009 that "unsecured gold deposits and gold interest rate swaps such as money market deposits are used for investment", page 35. There is still a breakdown in the 2012 Annual Report: EUR 0.8 million, interest income on gold investments, page 100. This would correspond to an estimated profit of 0.1 per cent based on my own gross calculation, assuming that half of the gold of the Bank of Finland would then have been "invested" to produce interest. Recently, statistics on negative gold leasing interest rates have been presented in the same way as there are loan papers on the market at a negative interest rate. Last year I asked a written question about the matter, but I did not receive an actual reply from the Ministry to the substance of the matter, because although the draft legislation is on the Ministry's side, the supervision of the Bank of Finland is under the supervision of the Parliament. As the Bank of Finland’s institution, the Bank’s operations and administration, including the management of risks to financial assets, are subject to supervision by the Banking Council appointed by the Parliament. That's why I'd like to ask the bank council: Is the Bank of Finland’s gold reserves currently in the leasing business still in the form of unsecured gold deposits, gold interest rate swaps or similar transactions such as money market deposits? Has there been any consideration for these contractual risks and, on the other hand, is there or would there be economic viability in the current zero interest rate market or in the case of negative interest rates? Finally, I would also like to raise this issue because of the Basel III regulation of banks, which, according to the information I have read on the London gold market in January 22, is the source of the Financial Times. This regulation will identify physical gold allocated according to risk ratings for gold that has not been allocated. Allocated gold would be less risky in the banks’ balance sheet and therefore more attractive for the balance sheet structure. We are talking about the so-called NSFR rule, net stable funding ratio. I would like to ask you again whether this amendment of the rules has any possible implications. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u344	Thank you. — Representative Holopainen Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-21-ps-101.u345	Mr President! The role of the Bank of Finland is wide, and especially during this time of interest rate crisis, it has certainly been enormously significant and even wider. The idea is that the Bank of Finland is a builder of a sustainable economy and stability, and one major part of this is to better respond to the climate and environmental crisis. This crisis will have a much more catastrophic and profound and long-lasting impact than the corona crisis or any other economic crisis if we use up natural resources or accelerate the natural disaster further. It is therefore great that the Bank of Finland and the Financial Supervisory Authority are increasingly taking into account the risks posed by climate change in their own operations, and this aspect needs to be strengthened in the future. One concrete example is the responsible investment undertaken by the Bank of Finland: and to look at how responsible investment succeeds and to genuinely implement it. Of course, we still need more information on how we will work sustainably in the field of climate change, and I am sure that these forthcoming reports will place even greater emphasis on this issue. Attention should also be paid to investing that does not harm biodiversity, and more and more information is available on this. However, emissions are what we have been focusing on so far. The theme of responsibility is sustainable development, and I would encourage us to further advance the objectives of carbon neutrality. There's still a chance. It is great that the Bank of Finland has also drawn attention to the worryingly low level of education in Finland and has not developed in the desired direction, and has highlighted the importance of human capital. I thought that the Bank of Finland has played an important role in many important discussions, especially recently in this debate on education policy, because it has such a significant impact on our productivity and hence on our economic performance.
