ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u1	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Sarkkinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u2	Mr President! The transfer of pension rights from the pension system of the European Union to the pension system of Finland currently requires that a person is employed in permanent employment in the EU and that he has transferred his pension rights previously acquired in Finland to the pension system of the European Union. Persons employed by an EU institution on a fixed-term basis are now not receiving a pension from this period of employment in the EU or from the Finnish earnings-related pension scheme. It is now proposed to amend the pension transfer between the EU and Finland's pension systems so that a person employed in the EU who has not acquired the right to a pension under the EU scheme could transfer the acquired pension right to the Finnish earnings-related pension scheme. The proposal would also make it possible to transfer to persons with a fixed-term employment relationship in the European Union. The transfer would be subject to the condition that a person would have acquired a pension in the Finnish earnings-related pension scheme prior to the transfer, i.e. he would have access to the Finnish scheme through the work of the insured person in Finland. The proposed improvement would therefore apply to Finns working in EU institutions, such as the EU Commission, Parliament and EU agencies on a temporary basis or in employment contracts of less than ten years. In the future, it would also be possible for these people to make the earnings-related pension accumulated throughout their working lives part of the Finnish pension system. The transfer of pension rights under the proposal would take place in Keva, and the pension would be treated as a state pension. This share of a person’s pension would be paid from Keva in due course when he retires. The aim of the proposal is to clarify and simplify the transfer of pension rights of a person employed in the European Union. At the same time, a number of legislative and regulatory changes are proposed with the aim of modernising regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u3	Congressman Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u4	Madam President! The legislative amendment in question is very small, but of course it is important for those people who have worked in the EU on a temporary basis or for a shorter period of time. The legislative amendment now under discussion would therefore increase the equality of Finns working in EU institutions in relation to our current pension system. According to the pension transfer law currently in force, a person entering the EU institution from Finland can transfer the pension rights acquired in Finland to the EU pension scheme and return the pension right to the Finnish employment pension scheme after the termination of his employment relationship. However, it has been the case that this transfer of earnings-related pension rights has not treated persons employed in the EU institutions on an equal footing or for less than 10 years, as they have so far not been able to transfer pension rights acquired in the EU to the Finnish pension scheme under current legislation. About 1,000 Finns work for EU institutions, and the extent of this is explained by the fact that, on an annual basis, only individual pension rights returns have been made to the Finnish earnings-related pension scheme. It is now assumed that the proposed changes will make the regulation clearer and simpler, and therefore there will also be some additional transfers of pension rights to the Finnish earnings-related pension scheme. All in all, however, only a few dozen are spoken of on an annual basis. And, as I said, although the legal amendment now being made is small, as many of those in this House are, it has an important impact on people who work in the EU on a temporary basis or for a shorter period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u5	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u6	Mr President! The government proposal under discussion proposes to amend the pharmaceutical law in certain respects. The purpose of these changes is to improve and make pharmacy activities more flexible by taking into account the different types of services provided by pharmacies. The aim is also to increase the number of pharmacies, promote competition and improve the availability and accessibility of pharmacy services. The following amendments to the pharmaceutical law are proposed: The conditions for setting up a new pharmacy would be broadened. Fimea could decide to set up a new pharmacy, both where it is necessary to ensure access to medicines, and also in situations where it would be necessary to ensure adequate pharmacy services. Pharmacies and secondary pharmacies could also be set up more easily in the context of social welfare and health care services, such as hospitals. In particular, the proposed amendment would ensure the timely and flexible availability of medical treatment for patients who leave and visit the hospital. The Act proposes a new provision on pharmacy pick-ups and clarifications on the provisions on online pharmacy activities. In addition, the powers of Fimea to address any possible shortcomings in online pharmacy activities would be clarified. The services provided by the pharmacy and the secondary pharmacy for health and well-being promotion and disease prevention could also be provided at the pharmacy's service point in the future, and the services would thus also be accessible to residents of sparsely populated areas. Competition for self-care medicines in pharmacies would be possible at retail prices. Thus, pharmacies could sell self - care drugs at a lower price by narrowing their own sales cap. The proposal would also allow a regulation to set a uniform national price for some self-care medicines if it were found that they were not compatible with price competition. In addition, pharmacists at the pharmacy should provide advice and guidance to ensure that the price does not guide the customer to make a wrong purchase decision from the point of view of rational and appropriate use of medicines. According to the proposal, the service housing units of social services could maintain limited stocks of medicinal products intended for joint use. These would have a small and limited range of medicines for the unpredictable and sudden needs of the clients in the operating units. The aim would be to allow rapid medical treatment for customers and to reduce unnecessary transfers of customers to health care on-call units, for example. However, most of the treatment of clients would be provided by an outpatient pharmacy, as has been the case up to now. In addition, the proposal would specify the rights and obligations between a pharmacist who has obtained a licence for pharmacy and a pharmacist who renounces his licence and reduce the appeal procedure for certain pharmaceutical safety and development decisions by removing the stage of the appeal procedure. In addition, the national deadline for applications for the extension of marketing authorisation and registration would be abolished and the law would be amended to reflect the good manufacturing practices of European Union medicines, the reporting of adverse drug reactions and the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation of the European Union. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u7	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u8	Mr President! It is great that we now get this pharmaceutical law into the parliament. This is just one part of the road map and reform of total medical treatment, and this is largely what was included in the previous Sipilä government proposal. Facilitating and streamlining access to pharmacy permits is, of course, an important part of obtaining pharmacies in areas where the population is growing smoothly. At the same time, however, we must take into account the fact that we have enough pharmacies throughout Finland and sufficient access to medicines. I would like to raise some issues here that are good reforms. For example, when granting a pharmacy permit, account will be taken of the extract from the criminal record, which is a welcome reform to reduce the misuse of medicines. Although it was not a major problem, there have been isolated cases. Similarly, in prison health care there is a mechanical dose distribution, which is a very good thing. And then the limited pharmaceutical stores in the service housing units: We already have very poor elderly people in 24-hour care, as well as home care, and there has been a problem that everyone has their own medicines and does not have any common medicines, even though there is a need. For example, if fever rises or if an acute situation occurs, a common supply of medicines is needed. It has also been suggested that the pharmacy could have new forms of service. It is somewhat unclear what it means here, and I would like to ask the Minister whether it has been thought, for example, that pharmacies could carry out future vaccinations or, for example, those corona tests in connection with the corona. Then I would have brought up marketing. Now, on the basis of this proposal, self - care medicines could also be sold at a discount. How have you thought about this with regard to marketing? Is it going to be regulated separately because, after all, medicines should not be marketed, only in need. And even when there are pharmacies of different sizes, then of course, large pharmacies, who are doing well anyway, have the possibility of selling these self-care medicines at a much lower price than smaller ones, and it can also distort the situation between pharmacies.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u9	Congressman Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u10	Madam President! I would like to thank the government for this excellent proposal. Representative Laiho here listed a number of good improvements that this proposal contains. One, of course, is that in future a pharmacy or a secondary pharmacy could also be established within the social welfare and health care unit. Of course, as a Lappish MP and a pharmacist's son, we must be pleased that we adhere to a good and safe Finnish pharmacy system. This proposal is excellent in terms of increasing the availability of medicines across the country. I would have asked the Minister: how has the proposal assessed the impact this will have on the remote and sparsely populated regions of our country?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u11	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u12	Thank you, Madam President. I feel that this reform of the law is very important to me, not only because I am in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, but also because there is a pharmacy background. Twenty-five years of being a pill-spinner, I'm sure you know a little about what's going on in that pharmacy. The good thing about the reform is that these pharmacy permits are made easier. After all, the pharmacy industry has been such a stagnant industry. If so, Parliament is rather slow to legislate, but in the pharmacy world it has been rather slow to grant these new permits. It has been very specific in times past, with approximately the precision of a stick, where the pharmacy can be in each village itself. And the granting of permits has been very bureaucratic and very slow, and it really makes sense that pharmacies can be set up more where they are needed, where there are customers and where there seems to be a need. But it must also take into account the fact that sparsely populated areas must not suffer and, by no means, the pharmacy network must suffer, so that then there will be no pharmacies in sparsely populated areas. That's a guarantee. But this reform in itself is very good for increasing this pharmacy network. Then, if we consider these others, there is much to come here for these reforms that concern the pharmacy. It must be borne in mind that people are getting those drugs, but how can we take such things into account in this reform when there are some of them coming... If you think that there are a lot of medicines available without a prescription and then there will be changes in the price stuff and others, then how do you take these things into account for a little higher risk of self-medicating? Because there are such more risky self-care medications: certain anti-inflammatory drugs are like this, there are migraine medications, there are some other such medicines, such as emergency contraception. How these things have been taken into account, I'd like an answer to that. What about cough pills? There are such risks, too, if you think that their use is greatly increasing. What have we been thinking about? Of course, the world is changing and it is good that the reform is being carried out in such a way that these permits are easier to obtain, especially since it seems now that the activities of pharmacies could be considered anyway. When it comes to social and health reform, that necessarily brings concentration. It is quite clear that there will no longer be a health centre in every municipality after that. Although other claims are made, it is certain that in five years’ time health stations will leave. However, there are pharmacies in nearby areas. Can we just think about the bigger picture? Do you think there might be an exchange of diabetes equipment, could there be vaccination? What other choice would there be? And let us not forget this pharmaceutical advice. There are university - trained staff who really know their field. Let us take this into account that it does not get out of hand and ensure that medical advice is maintained. How is it to be maintained, as it should be? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u13	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u14	Madam President! The draft law before us is very welcome. Thank you to the Minister for bringing it in at this stage in the parliamentary term. In the pharmaceutical sector, there has been a huge reform deficit in the development of pharmacies, and this is not because of pharmacies or the pharmaceutical sector, but because of Parliament. In other words, twice, 2015 and 2019, quite similar legislation has lapsed, and it is now important that this bill is dealt with and that the pharmaceutical sector is moved forward. This is part of the pharmaceutical road map, which has also been speeded up by Parliament and has increased appropriations in the budget negotiations, and it is important that this be taken forward. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party sees Finnish professional pharmacies as part of health care, and we want to develop pharmacies as part of health care, taking into account equal access to medicines and pharmaceutical safety. Several legislative proposals relating to the pharmaceutical sector are under preparation. Now we are under budget debate, and we have seen that the Achilles' heel of the left-wing green government is that we want a lot of good things, as we want in politics, but there seems to be no money. For example, it is a matter for which no money could be found, and the government is looking for savings of EUR 60 million in reimbursement of medicines, so that it can be financed, so that it would be good for Parliament to be informed in this debate as well as whether there are any more detailed preparations for this and when Parliament will be able to bring this savings law to the attention of Parliament. Here you can be concerned that the cost of medicines in Finland is very high for those with a lot of people, and whether this surgery will then hit the most vulnerable. Well, the pharmacy is the most used health service: 60 million customer visits per year. It is the nearest health point for the majority of Finns, and it is important that the pharmacy establishment is maintained and updated. Mr President! The purpose of this proposal is indeed to provide greater flexibility for the establishment of pharmacies. The purpose of this is to improve access to medicines, to increase price competition in self-care medicines, and then also to allow pharmacies to have more extensive health activities for preventative activities and health promotion. Here Mia Laiho, Vice-President of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, has already raised the role of pharmacies, and I would like to ask here, when the tests are very expensive in Finland and the government has thought about the corona pass and is deciding on its own strategy, whether it is thought that rapid testing could be possible in pharmacies, and whether it would be possible for Parliament, if legislation were needed, to regulate it now in the context of this bill. In many European countries, pharmacies are taking rapid tests, and this would be an opportunity to bring more test capacity, to take advantage of pharmacies and, above all, to reduce the cost of tests. When this happens elsewhere in Europe, why not also in Finland? That is what the Assembly has proposed, and I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will be able to consider this. At least we should find out what conditions pharmacies could be involved in this. This is linked to this legislation in that it is known very rarely that the pharmaceutical law is being reformed. Now that it is on the table, Parliament could also look at it. It is very good that, in future, pharmacies and secondary pharmacies can be set up more easily and, above all, that they should come into contact with social welfare, health care and hospitals. It has been a very bad thing in Finland that when a person, for example, comes home from a hospital, it has been very difficult to get medicines. It is really important that there are pharmacies where there are people, as was said in the group of Finns. Well, then on this licence of pharmacists: It is really good that Fimea is given the opportunity to decide on the creation of new pharmacies, and it is intended to be extended. And what is really important and what I am presenting on behalf of the parliamentary group is that the process of determining the permit should be transparent and more flexible. It is good to assess whether this regulation, which has now been adopted, is sufficient. I say here that this bill was prepared on the basis of what was negotiated by the representatives of the groups in the previous government, and this is really well done, and we are behind this. If there is still a chance in Parliament to look at this, it is good, but it is important that this be taken forward. Perhaps even after this presentation, the authorisation process will still be a little stiff. Above all, it should be transparent so that we know how these permits are given. But, at the end of the day, I say that it is really important that the production of pharmacy income should come from work rather than from the price of medicines. Whether it's expensive or cheap will affect what kind of income a pharmacy gets from it. And it would be important for the ministry to carry out research, so that more of that income would come from it. That is why it is important to look at, for example, dose distribution and the remuneration and reimbursement criteria it contains in order to achieve a comprehensive supply of such pharmaceuticals throughout the country and to make it reasonable for pharmacies to generate income and also justify the cost to health care as a whole. But I support this bill and thank you very much for bringing this good bill to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u15	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u16	Madam President! Just as colleagues have said here, this amendment to the pharmaceutical law is part of a wider road map in the pharmaceutical sector and this work has already begun during the previous regime. It is important for us to be able to streamline the pharmacy licensing processes, and this proposal also aims to enable a limited supply of medicines in social care services units and also allows for reductions in the price of self-care medicines. In this connection, I would like to point out that the Christian Democrats have always advocated face-to-face ownership in the pharmacy system, that is, this Finnish system in which people are responsible for their own pharmacy business. On the other hand, I also regret the public debate that has taken place around the pharmacy industry and where it has been suggested that pharmacies are one of the best entrepreneurs in Finland, even though it is known that this coverage, for example, is not so great in these rural pharmacies. In fact, when the social welfare reform is being carried forward, there is also concern that we in Finland will have at least the current, comprehensive pharmaceutical distribution and pharmacy system and the health care system as a whole. It is certainly worth considering in this context whether there are any services that could possibly be carried out in the pharmaceutical sector in the future, such as vaccines or similar, different types of simple tests and this type of tests. This has raised the debate on these rebates, which would be possible in the future for these non-prescription medicines, self-care medicines, and I would like to believe that there will be an ethical debate in the field of which medicines are of the kind that they can be marketed with discounts. It is hoped that the pharmacy industry likes self-regulation in this respect for marketing, because it is true that although there are different types of pharmacy systems in the Nordic countries, Sweden, for example, has found problems with certain self-care medicines in their abundant use and then with the health damage that has been caused. In that sense, this is certainly the point of this proposal that we should follow and, as has been said here, it would be possible to do so by means of a regulation. But I hope that the pharmacy sector is now also discussing what are good ethical marketing practices and what products they are suitable for.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u17	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u18	Madam President! The Minister of Social Affairs and Health presented this project closely and comprehensively, so there is no reason to re-reference these key content. However, there are a few points I would like to mention in this referral debate. This is not an overall reform, but it is not just a technical proposal, and then we in Parliament will have major pharmaceutical policy issues to resolve in the near future and certainly in the coming years. However, as has been said here in the excellent speeches by colleagues, this is now exactly the right time to make this long-standing proposal. In my view, the most important thing here is that the need for the establishment of a pharmacy should now be emphasised, as appropriate, as well as the need to do so. When I worked as head of the health centre and looked at it that way, later as head of the hospital again, it has become clear in both cases that the location and coverage of our pharmacy network has not been entirely appropriate, but have been influenced by other factors. Another very important point is that pharmacies can be set up in connection with social and health care services, as others have mentioned in their speeches. Finally, I would like to say that pharmacies are part of the health care sector which receives the most commendable grade in many population surveys, in such polls. We usually talk about level 9/10. It clearly leaves hospitals, health centres and many others, and this is a very important observation, so I myself am also in favour of moderate reforms. Instead of making a revolution in the pharmacy system, we should solve the problems there and move on gradually. Finally, the package of pharmacies and pharmaceuticals in Finland's health care is about EUR 3 billion. Of this, this outpatient treatment, which pharmacies care for, is about two and a half billion, of which Kela's reimbursements for medicines amount to EUR 1650 million. We had a report here yesterday on the activities of the Kela delegates, that is, two and a half billion is the total turnover, and 1650 million of it will come from Kela. And then the second entity is the medical care system for hospitals and other health care units, which is about EUR 600 million. It is based on large competition rings and then it is its own whole. In total, we are talking about about 1.5% of our gross domestic product, or a total of 3 billion. It is a very important issue not only for the citizens but also for the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u19	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u20	Mr President! This government proposal may be considered a good start but not a sufficient improvement in the development of Finnish pharmaceutical services and, in particular, the pharmacy sector. The positive thing about this proposal is that, if not directly, at least between the lines, the challenges of domestic medical care and the pharmacy sector are recognised. The current practice of pharmacy licensing bureaucracy — whether in pharmacy activities, establishment, authorisation process, ownership or pricing policy for medicines — prevents healthy competition in the pharmacy sector. The bill will naturally fall on the Finnish pharmaceutical user and the wider Finnish society. This has been demonstrated in a number of independent surveys on the pharmacy sector and the price development of medicines over the last couple of years. For example, in 2020 a preliminary study by THL, Fimea and Kela concluded that Finns pay more for medicines than other Nordics. The same result has been achieved by the Finnish Competition and Consumer Protection Agency and the Finnish Food and Drugstore Association in their own surveys of the pharmacy sector. That is why, Mr President, it is a good idea in this government proposal to extend the conditions for the establishment of a pharmacy so that a pharmacy can also be set up where it is necessary to safeguard pharmacy services. Secondly, welcome reforms are measures to clarify the conditions for online activities in pharmacies. This will strengthen the reliability and coverage of pharmaceutical supply, in particular in remote areas. Thirdly, the planned reforms to improve the price regulation of self-care medicines are also satisfactory in this situation. In addition, it is good that the present government has relied on the preparation of its predecessor, the Sipilä Government, to which it is ideologically bound. Mr President! Equal access to medicines and pharmaceutical safety must remain at the heart of Finnish pharmacy activities. Therefore, careful consideration must be exercised in the development of the sector. Yet, in the future, too, we should look forward to this. The pharmaceutical sector must be given the courage to reform in the future and make it more cost-effective and cheaper for the consumer. I personally would like to see future reforms in this area focused on three sets of issues. The first concerns the regulation of pharmacists' licences. For example, it is obvious that guaranteeing medical care throughout Finland requires some kind of regulation of pharmacy permits, but is there a need for heavy bureaucracy such as the one we have today? Could the current regulation on pharmacy licences be phased out in the future and, in the same context, could it be possible to extend the existing models of pharmacy ownership? Could the practice of pharmacy activities be possible in the future, under certain conditions, also in the form of an open company, which would allow the ownership base to be extended to professionals working in the pharmacy? The second package relates to self-care medicines and the partial transfer of their sales to grocery stores. So it is partly self-care drugs, but not painkillers like Sweden, for example. After all, this was discussed in the pharmacy working group of the parliamentary groups of the government parties in the last parliamentary term, and even some agreement was reached on it after strict conditions were reached. So why not continue to do so in the future? Thirdly, we need to discuss the future role of pharmacies in Finnish health care. This government proposal will allow for health and well-being-related service activities to be carried out at pharmacy service points in the future, and that is a good thing. There is now a need for a common vision of all the measures that can be extended from the current basic health care system to the treatment of pharmacies. Is it possible, among other things, to obtain flu vaccinations or Coronary Tests from pharmacies in the future? And could pharmacies assist health care, for example, when patients need an up - to - date blood test? In an ageing Finland, the pressure on the adequacy of healthcare services is increasing year by year, and in my opinion, pharmacies should also play a bigger role in meeting this challenge.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u21	Mr Heinonen and then the Minister. — Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u22	Madam President! Thank you, Minister Sarkkinen, for a good presentation. I personally consider this to be a good and moderate reform, and it takes us in a good direction in our pharmacy situation. Add pharmacies to where these problems exist, i.e. growth centres. We need to make it easier for us to get more pharmacies there, but I do represent the survey population that has been presented in this debate by a number of other colleagues, that our current system has secured the pharmacy services in the whole country very well, and I hope that such a massive reform will not be carried out as, for example, for taxis: when we started solving the problems in Helsinki and the capital region, the rest of Finland's taxi system was mixed up, and I fear that this would be the case with pharmacies too, if this working system were to be changed now with a big rush. I therefore want to continue to secure pharmacy services throughout the country, including in rural areas. Last summer, for example, there was the case of our colleague, Petteri Orpo, who went to the pharmacy and the skilled pharmacy staff said that you have these symptoms and these symptoms, we take an ambulance. After a while, the man was in the hospital and received the best treatment in Finland. Would this have happened at Sale's register, you might ask and doubt that it would not have happened. Sale's cashiers are also competent in their own work, but they are not trained in what our pharmacy staff are trained for. This is by the way only one good example of how our pharmacies operate. They work in exactly the same way for each of us. When we go for medicines, we get good guidance every time on what the doctor has written there, but also quite often on how to deal with medicines and how to proceed in the future. That's where I think this pharmacy and side pharmacy business is good. Perhaps it is precisely the problem of growth centres and then of smaller places, and I agree with Mrs Wallinheim's speech that these expansions of pharmacy services are worth considering. For example, the Coalition Party has raised the issue of corona stinging, and why not in the future, for example, as Mrs Wallinheim has pointed out, flu vaccinations and this type of vaccination could be obtained. It would also bring these services more widely across the country. Let us stick to this good, functional pharmacy system that works well in a sparsely populated country,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u23	Secretary Sarkkinen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u24	Mr President! Thank you for a lively debate. Indeed, there is a long and over-electoral preparation, as Mr Laiho said, and fortunately this has finally been brought to Parliament, and hopefully we will also be able to make it work smoothly. It is important that the road map can also be implemented more widely. Thank you also for your resources. The road map for pharmaceuticals is a large entity which will take place during several parliamentary term periods and will also provide some answers to these ideas for development which have been raised here today. The new services of pharmacies could include, for example, pharmaceutical evaluation, such as the overall evaluation of medication, and perhaps such a wider expansion of pharmacy tasks will then be considered in this road map work. For example, in the case of vaccination or sampling, there is no extension of tasks in this proposal, but I think it is possible that it will be considered as part of this further development work, and it should be clarified. But we must be aware that these issues are also related to information management issues and, for example, access to Omakanta and would require legislative changes. In other words, all these expansions would not necessarily be easy to implement, but they need to be considered. Competition for the price of self-care medicinal products must ensure that it does not endanger rational use of medicinal products. Pharmacies have an advisory obligation, and then marketing is regulated in many ways. However, this bill includes the possibility of a regulation, by which certain medicinal products can be excluded from price competition in the event of negative effects. Ensuring services in sparsely populated areas is important. When it becomes easier to set up service points for side pharmacies and pharmacies, it can help sparsely populated areas. On the other hand, the development of online pharmacy services can also be an opportunity for sparsely populated areas. Finally, I believe that pharmacy legislation should be developed with the awareness that pharmacies are very important local services for people and are part of the healthcare package.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u25	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u26	We will now resume the debate on item 13 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session. — Debate, absence of representative Eestilä. — — — — Congressman S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u27	Mr President! The government's proposal to amend the pharmaceutical law may be considered a good start but not a sufficient improvement in the development of the pharmacy sector. At the meeting we can reasonably welcome this proposal because it has been done largely on the basis of the preparation of the previous government. Here in the tax wonderland we also have a pharmacy tax, but a surprise, a similar tax is not found in any other Nordic country. Our tax dates back to 47 years, and at that time it was aimed at balancing the results of different pharmacies. There is good reason to ask now whether the law and the associated tax practices have been up to date for some time. Because of the tax, some of the drugs have to be sold at a loss. The situation takes place in large pharmacies, such as university pharmacies. In particular, more expensive medicines are sold in practice at a loss, and their share of medicines has clearly increased and are constantly increasing due to the age structure of the population. The basic problem here is the pharmaceutical tax and taxation, that is, the cover structure, and this is where Mr Essayah took a little catch earlier in the day. The tax reform has collapsed the margins. The margin difference between a medium-sized and a large pharmacy can be as much as ten per cent, and it puts different operators in an unequal position. In practice, laws and regulations force us to sell at a loss. The pharmaceutical sales of university pharmacies have been at a loss for several years. The reason why I am raising this issue lies in the fact that the profits of university pharmacies go directly to education and research, so it is in everyone's interest that the activities should be productive. Furthermore, the pharmacy tax should not be applied to any other than pharmaceutical sales. If the sales of large university pharmacies other than pharmaceuticals are more than 20 per cent of turnover, a pharmacy tax must also be paid for that. These include patches, vitamins and similar products. Again, this inequality is alive and well. Mr President! I would also see it as a line of action if the tax were to be levied on a profit margin, which it does not do at the moment. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u28	Congressman Kivisaari gone.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u29	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 11/2021 vp. — Debate, Chairman of the committee, Mr Kalmari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u30	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! This is one of those moments where you can do this job. I am pleased and proud to present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the citizens' initiative. Our proposal for a decision is: ‘On the basis of a citizen’sinitiative,the Council of State will, as far as possible, become involved in the We rejected measures 3/2020 and 47/2021 in the traditional way, although they were good in themselves. These were dealt with in part in our report and will then continue to be dealt with in the context of legislation. The committee had one proposal for a statement: ‘The Commission requires that,as part of the reform of the water supply legislation intended by the Indeed, when I said I was happy today, I will tell you a little history of what has happened here. In fact, it all started with the decision to privatise water supply by the city of Jyväskylä and the city of Ähtär and quite a public noise. I am grateful to Aila Paloniemi and to Councillor Knuuttila for not taking up this proposal, but for pointing out that there was an inappropriate hiring of a consultancy company to promote this. When we talk about water supply, we don't talk about anything small. In Finland, we have an example of what happened when the electricity networks were privatised. Prices are rising, even if all legislators try to do their best not to do so, but they do not want to be held back, they cannot come up with a brush. We also have international examples of how, as a result of privatisation, manna has not rained from the sky, but the examples of privatisation are poor. For example, we have considerable legal battles in South America to try to keep water supply in private hands, at the risk of international investment protection, once it is renationalised, when prices have skyrocketed, but it is quite challenging, it is expensive and, in part, impossible because of arbitration. The committee also went through the legislation of other countries on this issue, and we noticed that although officials were very careful about promoting this issue — perhaps because the municipalities have the right to make their own decisions in the desired way and their sovereignty was not being interfered with — and even though this was a little clammy, we still have very good legislative models, for example from Norway and Sweden. In Norway, the entire water supply network is protected by public ownership and by law, while in Sweden, by control, water supply facilities have been held in public hands. We therefore received, as it were, background support for progress in this area. I am very proud of my committee that we did not give up, even though you know the significance of the ministry's defences. In other words, even though we received a little clammy responses from there, we were not content with it, but for so long we demanded a new response that we were able to write such a report. The reasons are clear. Water supply is a public monopoly and cannot be competitive. Access to affordable clean water is a fundamental right and part of national health security and is part of national security of supply. There can be no competing water supply networks alongside those already in existence, i.e. privatisation will achieve nothing. It is predictable that the economic situation of municipalities will continue to deteriorate in the future, and when the municipalities’ finances are to be put in order, this will continue to put pressure on sales in many municipalities. And, as I said earlier, if the moped has gotten out of hand, it would be really difficult to tackle this afterwards. Now that the situation is still under control, water supply is in public hands, and we were able to intervene in advance. The earth is drying up, and it is predictable that there will be competition for water resources in the future. And, as I mentioned, privatisation at international level has generally not led to efficiency gains, but to higher water prices. We should act now that the situation has not gotten out of hand. If the privatisation of water supply has already taken place for international operators, the return of ownership to public bodies will be priced, inter alia, by the protection of WTO investment. Well, there's still a little background on this water supply plant itself. After all, we have 1,800 water service-producing organisations. Of these, approximately 450 public-owned municipal institutions are owned by the citizens' initiative, and 90 per cent of Finnish institutional water supply is owned by the municipalities. We wanted to take a stand in this report on the need for cooperatives which operate on a small scale in the water sector to be able to continue to operate as before, but we also took the view that, if sales are made, the municipality should have a right of preference for these networks. After all, many water supply cooperatives are quite elderly and resource-depleted, so there will probably be changes with time on that side too. But the majority of customers, 90 per cent, are owned by institutional municipalities. In many cases this ownership is transferred through various forms of incorporation, and now there is a change in future legislation. It is important that water prices do not have to be cashed in, but that water prices reflect the costs of water supply. Just as I am sure the Committee on the Environment has pointed out that we have a huge repair debt and a debt reduction in these structures of water supply, this House should also take account of this in the budgets tomorrow. Renovation investments should be 2-3 times higher than they are now. I was talking about fundamental rights. The law requires that water supply charges should be reasonable and fair, but in practice the reasonableness and control of the revenue included in the charges is inadequate. The Committee therefore considers it important that water charges are better directed towards dismantling the repair debt. We also took a position on what this order of use of water resources is. That's Articles 3 and 4 of the Water Act. However, this is also reflected in the forthcoming Water Management Act. Priority is always there for the residents of the municipality and for the residents of the water supply establishment, and if there is external use, it must be authorised, and only then, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u31	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u32	Madam President! A report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry is being discussed. Water is for our citizens' initiative. The citizens' initiative originated from the plans of the City of Jyväskylä to sell part of its water supply activities. The City of Jyväskylä withdrew its intentions as a result of strong opposition from the municipalities. To date, Parliament has adopted two citizens' initiatives: equal marriage law and maternity law. Water is therefore our citizens' initiative, which is the third citizens' initiative adopted by Parliament. At the beginning of 20, the Water is our citizens' initiative collected 89,000 declarations of support. It was sent to 20 parliaments in March, the initiative was in the referral debate in September, and the report was finalised in June of this year. Mr President! Water is a human right that has been enshrined in the UN resolution. Water is essential to man’s life. The lack of water in the world causes food shortages, flows of refugees. We've seen it in a bad way. Finland is a land of thousands of lakes, but our groundwater areas are also abundant. Water is the property of all of us Finns, and it should not do business to achieve maximum profits, or to seek benefits such as hidden tax at the expense of local and local livelihoods. Mr President! Water supply is a natural monopoly in the region. Its private ownership would in practice be allowed to print money at the expense of residents. We know this from experience in electricity transmission in Finland and in water supply in Europe. The sale of water supply activities is seen only as a momentary plus word in the municipal financial calculations but as an eternal minus in the municipality's own purses. It's not durable. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry notes that water management is a key function for the functioning of society, for security of supply. Ensuring access to sanitary water and proper treatment of waste water is important for the population, industry, health care and defence. It's part of a big security of supply package. The committee considered the initiative to be important and timely and felt that an effective and sustainable solution should be found to the problems raised. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry is monitoring the European situation with regard to water. We are constantly hearing worrying news about how many areas of farming have been contaminated and groundwater resources have been reduced, i.e. recyclable fertilizers through groundwater, contaminated many areas of farming. Finland's importance in clean food production will be very significant. It would be great if we had been able to say yet, or perhaps a future parliament or someone could say that there is no sale of water resources in Finland. Fortunately, we have water legislation so advanced that the objectives set out in the report will further enhance the protection of property that needs to be provided with water. Water is the most important thing in life. It is a pleasure to join the chairman of the committee in almost a ‘I have a dream’ speech. This has been a great thing for us to be able to achieve something that we agree on across party lines. In other words, on the basis of the citizens' initiative, Parliament requires the Government to take measures as soon as possible to prepare legislation to ensure the maintenance of public-owned water management activities, which are subject to the municipal organisation obligation, owned and controlled by the municipalities. I would like to thank the members of the committee for their good cooperation. Thank you to those left-wing activists who, as first signatories, made this move, and especially to the more than 80,000 citizens who signed it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u33	Congressman Kiuru, Pauli.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u34	Mr President! Thank you to the committee and to the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalmar, for his inspiring speech and indeed in flames and, of course, thank you to the citizens' initiative makers. Firstly, it is self-evident that water must be kept in the hands of the public sector. The experience of privatisations from the world in relation to such a natural monopoly is poor, as the chairman of the committee said in his speech and in the citizens' initiative. Water management can be organised in many ways. For example, it is not in itself the wrong way, it can be a very effective way, and cooperation between municipalities can be justifiable. It is also justified that various support services should be purchased from the private sector, there is nothing to blame for. But, as the committee says, the committee does not exclude the concern expressed in the citizens' initiative that municipalities sell their water supply facilities in a bad economic situation. First of all, it is important that the obligation to organise remains with the municipalities, and it is particularly important that control also remains with the municipalities and municipalities. If such arrangements, such as limited liability companies, are made, shareholder contracts, redemption clauses and other legal arrangements must always be made in such a way that final control is maintained in municipalities in all situations. It is a security issue, and security is also an essential part of the feeling of security. For example, Pirkanmaa has a joint municipal artificial groundwater project, which has been prepared since 93 years, 2002 has been established as a limited company. The starting point has, of course, been good and worthwhile: securing water supply. But taking that project through, as if by force, has turned against itself, and solutions have been made in other ways, and there have been doubts to the public and many municipalities as to where those shares may be going if such a project is built at all, which is no longer justified from an environmental point of view or justified from the point of view of water management. The main shareholder, Tampere, should justify what they intend to do with the project as a whole. Water has been taken for granted, as well as literacy. This is how you take care of both of us on the day of reading. I hope that this proposal for a decision and a statement will move forward as the committee has proposed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u35	This is the part where I don't admit to the debate. We have a very long list of speakers, and this report is unanimous. But I will keep a close eye on the situation if there are very different points of view here. — — — — Congressman Kinnunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u36	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Kalmar, for a clear and inspiring introduction to history. Congratulations on making a dream come true. Clean drinking and domestic water is our national wealth, which is rare on a global scale. Clean water is a source of great joy and pride for us. It is a big matter, as Mr Kalmari said. Finland is one of the few countries where tap water can also be provided to foreign guests. This national property must not be sold away. The value of water will continue to grow in the future. The citizens' initiative is therefore important and timely. Thanks to the people who did it. The starting point of the city centre is that the supply of water must be ensured throughout Finland. We need water in every house. Water is a basic need. Every county's plumbing is important. Water is an important part of our natural cycle. We are the land of thousands of lakes, ponds and rivers. The water is in constant circulation, and no one owns it. Responsibility for the organisation of water management, i.e. water management, treatment and supply, as well as waste water management and treatment rests with municipalities. When it comes to private ownership, it's good to be careful. The examples coming from abroad are so warning. Thank you to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for the unanimous consideration of this important issue. According to your report, water supply facilities and water supply infrastructure must remain primarily publicly owned. No one wants a situation where the price of water begins to be determined by profit-oriented, perhaps foreign, companies. Functioning water supply is also a safety issue and part of the security of supply in our country. If the water runs out, life ends. The service must be close and reliable. Prices must remain reasonable. You can't cash in on water. The Committee also notes that the model of existing cooperative water supply plants and a smaller private minority ownership must continue to be safeguarded. Water cooperatives are non-profit-making. They are particularly important to us people living in a sparsely populated area. In reforming the laws, it is important to see that things that work are not broken. There is no reason to scrap the existing system. The control of the municipality should be strengthened. Mr President! The concerns of the citizens' initiative are justified in many ways. For example, the repair debt of our pipelines is high. 12% of the network is in very poor condition. Many small municipalities have a water plant or a wastewater treatment plant coming to the end of their journey. Adequate support should also be provided for their reform. Renovation investments are needed. Water supply companies are under pressure to sell because there is no money to renew pipelines and repair real estate. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that preventing the sale of water supply by law is problematic in terms of the protection of municipal self-government and the principle of funding. Municipalities must cope financially with their tasks and obligations. We need to find solutions to ensure that water supply remains in our own hands and that the repair debt is discharged. The water is ours. It's a fundamental right. Let's take care of this national treasure. I would like to join in the committee's view that we will ensure that the water supply activities are maintained under the ownership and control of the municipalities. In the preparation, the autonomy of the municipality, as well as fundamental and human rights will be taken into account. Secure access to clean water. It serves all of us: business, health care, national defence, the overall security of our country as a whole. Let's protect our water and our waters. The water is ours.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u37	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u38	Mr President! In this land of thousands of lakes drinking water can be proudly introduced to foreign guests. Clean water is a matter of national property and of great importance to us. Public water supply must remain under the control of the public sector. We have learned the hard way about the mistakes the Katainen government allowed with regard to the electricity grids. We don't want a new Caruna for water supply. Private, natural monopolies are frightening. In the current situation, small-scale private ownership, such as water cooperatives, plays an important role at local level in many areas. The inhabitants of sparsely populated areas, of course, mostly manage their own water supply. However, it should be noted that in each region the municipality is responsible at least for organising the water supply of agglomerations. This must continue to be the case. Mr President! The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has made a wise decision in favour of the citizens' initiative. In the preparation of the reform of the water supply legislation, the maintenance of public water supply as the responsibility of the municipalities must be ensured. This is also required by the committee in its proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u39	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u40	Madam President! When talking about water, we could start as far away as the account of creation or the aqueducts of ancient Romans. However, without further delay, I shall move on to this day and say that it has been a real pleasure to see how, here in Parliament, we are unanimously behind this committee's report and also value Finnish water supply and want to keep it in safe hands. I was fortunate to have received a book from my mailbox in Helsinki today, called the National Icon of Water Management. It tells of the work done by Kiiming—the Ice Water Management Association. There, together, people have wanted to fix the water in the area. Finland has the cleanest water in the world. Clean waters, as many have already said, are indeed our national treasure, which should be held on to and whose value seems to only rise. Mr President! The source of the citizens' initiative is people's concern that our water supply will fall into uncertain hands — perhaps even for foreign owners. As has been said, there is cause for concern. In my country there is an old saying in Kuusamo: “There is also poor water. “ Let's hold on to it. If water supply were transferred to private hands, the risk of high prices would be great. As the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalmari, well described, the public debate on the subject of this citizens' initiative accelerated in 2020 as a number of cities were planning to sell or sell water supply to private individuals. At present, these sales plans are on ice so far, i.e. they have been interrupted. ‘The fundamental right of avession,to which theprivatisation of Mr President! The Centre considers it very important and valuable to intervene now that the situation is still under control and that water supply is in public hands. Like the committee, I hope that legislative changes will move forward rapidly so that we can get even clearer on this issue. Mr President! The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry states in its report that ensuring access to health-friendly household water and proper treatment of waste water is vital for both the population and the economy, health care and defence of the country. I would like to thank the committee for this expert, common-minded report. It is easy to agree with the committee's proposal that the Government should proceed swiftly to prepare the necessary legislation. In this way we ensure that the water supply functions are maintained under the ownership and control of municipalities. The Committee also rightly notes that these customer-owned, non-profit water supply companies, which are mainly small water cooperatives, must continue to operate. They are particularly important in rural areas. Water supply must primarily be publicly owned, because in this way it is a very critical, important issue for our society. The preparation of legislation must be done with care. The law must be watertight so that this national treasure of ours is in sure hands.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u41	Congressman Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u42	Mr President! Citizens' initiatives are a very good thing, so thank you for this initiative too. This citizens' initiative was given the green light from the committee, and with unanimity. The People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (VKK) are also very positive about this initiative. The VKK wants to have a clearer public opinion on decision-making at both local and national level. We therefore welcome citizens' initiatives and, in general, citizens' involvement. There should also be referendums on many issues. We are therefore in favour of a direct democracy in which citizens can decide directly. Mr President! The new legislation would ensure the maintenance of public-owned water management activities under the ownership and control of municipalities. The proposal for a decision of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry proposes that Parliament requires the Government to take as prompt measures as possible. That is, of course, a good thing. The report also mentions that, unlike many other European countries, there is no body in the Finnish water supply sector that controls the service and price levels of water supply plants. This is something that should be corrected. The Water Management Act states: ‘The costs of water supply and sanitation are expected to be met over a long Payments shall not include more than a reasonable return on capital.’; That's a reasonable return on capital. In other words, control of that reasonable yield is currently solely in the hands of local politicians and officials. Mr President! The party programme of the VKK has set out the objective of keeping all the state's strategic monopolies state-owned, so we are clearly living in the spirit of this citizens' initiative. Thus, the management of the road and rail network, the electricity, heating and water network, mining, forests, water bodies and groundwater must be in the hands of Finns. We also stress that the high level of self-sufficiency must be maintained in terms of both food and energy production and other security of supply. Mr President! I hope that this initiative will also be adopted unanimously in this Chamber. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u43	Congressman Pie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u44	Madam President! The Water before us is our — the citizens' initiative to prevent the privatisation of water supply received a positive response in committee, and the committee's position is unanimous. It was really interesting to hear different views on how clean water is handled in Finland. The SDP has a recent decision a little over a year ago that water supply should not be privatised and that water resources should remain in public ownership, as is also stated in this committee's opinion. The committee's report and position are therefore entirely in line with the SDP's guidelines, so that it was really good to move on this path. Well, then I will raise this issue, which certainly spoke to us, that is, the way in which these waters are owned. When it comes to groundwater, however, these water reserves are limited, and the Ely centres have the responsibility of monitoring how much water is taken from the public pumping plant overall, i.e. there are 24-hour limits. Well, then it makes it possible that a private well does not, of course. When we remember the past, there are still wells in the sparsely populated area that take their own household water, take water for the cattle and so away, so that I understand that there are no such limits. Nevertheless, the municipalities should have this decision-making power as to the way water resources are then used, and this responsibility for organizing is the responsibility of the municipalities. As has been said here before, we have cooperatives in sparsely populated areas, and their importance has been quite great in the sense that clean water has been delivered to the area, but at the same time dirty water networks have been drawn and the environment can also be taken care of in that way. But above all, there is concern about it in that regard if the municipality has not taken care of how the cooperatives’ estates are handled, or in that it is said, if there is any financial difficulties for the cooperative, in what way it is managed. That is why it is important that, in these Treaties, if the municipality is involved — as is often the case with small seed money, where EU money has been used — there is a record that the municipality has a right to take advantage of it. At least I remember being in my own municipality. It is important that it does not go into private hands without knowing, and in this way it will be able to take good care of this water supply.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u45	All right. — Representative Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u46	Mr President! First of all, thank you for raising an important issue for the citizens' initiative makers and signatories. Water is a prerequisite for life and clean water is a human right, and that is why it is essential that we take care of our water resources and keep the operation of water supply in the hands of the public authorities. The citizens' initiative aims to prevent the sale of public-owned water supply activities to commercial, private operators and to ensure that current ownership is maintained by the public sector. The initiative stresses the importance of clean drink and household water for ordinary people, health care and the livelihoods. Once water management is under public control, we can guarantee more certainty that the system will also work in crisis situations. The Greens have supported this citizens' initiative from the outset, and our representatives in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry have worked for this report. And thank you, I would like to thank the entire committee for this one-sided and commendable report. Mr President! It is vital that our national legislation guarantees good status and sustainable use of surface and groundwater. Although the availability of water has not been a problem in Finland so far, we cannot lull ourselves into the fact that there will be no problems in the future. Climate change has a major impact on water conditions. For example, heavy rains are already causing a sudden strain on sewage systems. Different environmental pollutants affect water quality and threaten groundwater and access to clean water. Privatisation of natural monopolies is, as a rule, a bad option. It is a widely shared view here. Privatisation of water supply could attract foreign investors to become operators of Finnish water supply. The municipalities, which now mainly own our water supply system, have a legal obligation to take care of the state of the environment. In turn, the pursuit of economic profit is emphasised in the activities of companies. As has already been heard here today, there are bad experiences of water privatisation in the world. This has led, among other things, to an excessive increase in prices. I would also like to highlight the issue of transparency, which is an important aspect of the ownership of activities that are essential to a society such as water supply. Public ownership ensures transparency and transparency. It is great that there is a broad consensus in this Chamber that it is not worth taking the path of privatisation. In order to ensure this, it is therefore necessary to refine the legislation as set out in the citizens' initiative. Mr President! In addition to water supply, we must ensure that our water bodies and water resources are maintained. Ensure a high level of waste water treatment and resolutely reduce diffuse pollution, inter alia by changing agricultural and forestry practices. For this, too, we need guidance and control from the public authorities. In some parts of our water supply network, poor condition and repair debt pose a risk to the functioning of water supply. The deteriorating economic situation of municipalities threatens to further increase the correction debt instead of reducing it. This is also reflected in the customer charges for water supply, which must be directed towards reducing this repair debt, as has already been said here. Mr President! We therefore have enough water supply challenges, but they are justified in the future to be resolved by and under the authority of the public authorities. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry therefore unanimously calls for the adoption of this initiative to be resolved as part of the ongoing reform of water management legislation. I think it is important for the committee to insist in this report that this reform be monitored and that the committee receive a report by the end of 22. This will help to ensure that the preparation is progressing rapidly and will remain monitored by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u47	Congressman Pitko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u48	Madam President! I would like to begin by thanking the people who have launched this citizens' initiative. It is indeed historic to take an initiative that will be adopted in Parliament's plenary session, as is the case with the indications, that is to say the unanimous report of the committee. I would also like to thank colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for their very thorough examination of the matter, for their constructive cooperation and for the extensive expert consultations we have had on this initiative to hear and study together. Clean water is indeed a fundamental right to which our decision-makers must continue to guarantee access for all. Clean water is a basic need that should not be taken for granted even in Finland. Although our water resources are abundant, climate change can actually make it more difficult for us to access water too. There are already a number of conflicts in the world due to water shortages. In Finland itself, water reserves, such as groundwater, cannot be owned under the current Water Act, but the water supply infrastructure, such as water pipelines, is mainly owned by municipalities, which are also responsible for water supply. In terms of customer numbers, more than 90 per cent of the water supply in Finland is owned by municipalities at the moment. Public ownership of water supply guarantees the realisation of the common and public interest. Clean water is affordable for everyone. On the other hand, privatisation of water supply could have a wide range of adverse effects on our water supply. Privatisation is not restricted in the current Water Supply Act. That is what we are now making a change to, however, because we are indeed dealing with this. Water is our citizens' initiative, which, when adopted, means making the necessary changes to the law to limit the private management of water supply. A private monopoly is poorly suited to a so-called natural monopoly such as water supply, where there is no genuine competitive situation between companies. There is no competition in water supply, as the construction of parallel water supply networks and water treatment facilities in the same areas is practically impossible and the customer of water supply cannot choose a regional service provider. There are many bad experiences around the world with the privatisation of water supply. This gave us a comprehensive consultation in committee on various practices and events. These have resulted, among other things, in an increase in water prices and in a deterioration in the service level of water supply. Many European cities, such as Paris, which privatised their water supply, have since taken water supply back into public ownership. Privatisation of water supply could also lead to the involvement of foreign investors in water supply and could pose a threat to the environment. Municipalities have a legal obligation to care for the state of the environment and this is the best guarantee that the state of the environment and the quality of the waters will remain high. Water supply is also a question of safety and transparency. The functioning of water supply is also guaranteed in crisis situations when water supply is publicly owned. The public sector is also subject to transparency and transparency requirements which ensure public access to information and control over the operation of water supply. Approximately 10 per cent of Finland’s institutional water supply is currently privately owned. This applies mainly to water cooperatives purchased and managed by customers operating in sparsely populated areas. The purpose of these forms of ownership is not to interfere with this legislation and our report proposed by the citizens' initiative, but to limit the sale of municipal water to private profit-making operators. In addition to water supply, we must safeguard our own water supply. The chemical status of Finland’s surface waters is still weak, and eutrophication, for example, is a serious problem. In order to safeguard clean waters, it would be important to reduce the water pollution caused by agriculture and forestry in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u49	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the citizens' initiative makers and to the committee for a very good job. Water and water resources are national property, and it is of course very important that we protect our waters. As we have done well so far, the aim must, of course, be to protect our water assets better in the future. Water supply in Finland is mainly very high-quality and municipal or public-owned, with the exception of these cooperatives in sparsely populated areas or small private water supply solutions, as has been mentioned here in several speeches. This expertise is good enough to take to the world as well, and it has also been exported to the world. I believe that this is the fist that should be used to promote this issue by these larger players, who have clear skills. We have heard that there have been bad actions in many countries, that in many countries the situation is poor, and that is why it is worth taking away the Finnish expertise as well. These municipal conglomerates, which have not only water supply in general but also the production, sale, distribution and other types of activity of electrical energy, should consider splitting up the company and, if they want to increase their knowledge of the company, for example in the field of electricity generation, then acquire minority shares. But I absolutely agree that these natural monopolies, which we also have in this country, for example, this water supply, belong to the public sector. In my view, selling these parts to private operators is not a matter of concern, as the committee has also said, and many representatives here are well-founded. And, as I said, there is always an alternative for these large conglomerates to chop up the company in such a way that the sections in which the additional knowledge through private ownership is sought are, for example, those in the electricity production sector that are specified. The committee statement states that public ownership is necessary to ensure the quality, safety and affordability of services. I think it is at the heart of the matter, and this should be borne in mind when this initiative is progressing in due course and then new legislation is emerging. This is at the heart of everything, that we take care of these national resources, that we take care of natural monopolies and that the mistakes that have been made during the time of Katainen's government will not be repeated. All the same, it is easy to support the committee's support, because I believe that the arguments are watertight.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u51	Congressman Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u52	Madam President! The market economy can only function well if it is limited to its own property as a servant of society and is not allowed to develop freely into monopoly capitalism, where power and wealth belong only to the few. Natural monopolies, such as water and electricity networks, are essentially lacking in the market. It is rather absurd to give a private body the right to launder money without having any influence. This is not helping, even though attempts are being made to correct the situation by adjusting the bureaucratic maximum profits that companies operating in tax havens are easily circumventing. Mr President! This initiative is already historic because it was adopted unanimously by the committee. Quite a huge thank you, Jonah, Olli, Hilkka, Vesa, Heidi, Jouni and you almost 90,000 others that you left us with the initiative. It is also a historical matter of substance. Too many natural monopolies have been privatised in Finland by decision of both municipalities and the state, even though there are bad examples of this around the world. Too often, right-wing decision-makers, in their ideological rage — or others in front of a consultant’s speech — have wanted to give up common property. Of course, natural monopolies also differ. Privatisation of the electricity network or railway line will cost people and ultimately public finances too much, but it does not go to the very core of the basic needs of water. Water must always be the common property of all of us living in Finland and in every municipality. Water is our common treasure, which must not be abandoned, like short-sighted greed or quicky, in patching up the tracks of a poorly managed economy. Thank you very much for taking the initiative and thank you to the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u53	Congressman Eskelinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u54	Madam President! Few people have spoken so enthusiasticly, brightly and positively as the chairman of the committee, who showed us the model in this Chamber — for that I thank Mr Kalmar. Thank you, of course, also for the citizens' initiative. It is easy to agree with the committee's proposal for a decision, report and statement that the reform of water management legislation needs to be clarified quickly. Water supply is a key function for the functioning and security of supply of society. Ensuring a healthy supply of domestic water and the treatment of waste water is vital for all sectors of society. As regards the main heading of the initiative, the SDP has a clear policy to prevent the privatisation of water supply — as Mr Pierainen said — which supports the maintenance of municipal water management activities under the responsibility of organising the municipality under the ownership and control of the municipalities. In this context, we can talk about the basic infrastructure of society, which is critical to the functioning of society as a whole. Mistakes have also been made, and big mistakes have been made, as has been said here, with regard to electricity networks and electricity companies in previous decades. In particular, we can even talk about fundamental rights and national property in relation to water. The current water legislation itself safeguards the conservation of water resources at a good level in terms of quality and quantity. However, this is not a matter of course with regard to water resources; it is important to continue work on water resources and on the implementation of water legislation. In this context, the future of water supply and perhaps also of ownership should be examined further. The important thing is to look at ownership in further work as a whole. Although more than 90 per cent, measured by the number of customers, is publicly owned, i.e. owned by municipalities, it is important that the municipalities' right of pre-purchase also needs to be taken into account for smaller cooperatives. The problem and risk is a major field for small operators — currently around 1800 organisations provide water services, as has been heard. It is clear that the challenge is posed by a large number of players — a particular concern for smaller operators and cooperatives, whether they have sufficient resources to provide quality services. These are largely still in sparsely populated areas. Perhaps the main concern is the repair of the water supply infrastructure, and even the service debt can be discussed. It is estimated that 12% of the water supply network is in very poor condition. The need for restructuring is high, and small institutions and cooperatives are most vulnerable to this challenge. Therefore, in further work, this public ownership and ownership structure must also be considered as a whole in order to be able to take care of the condition and safety of our water supply network in the future. Mr President! The national work on water management reform has started last year and work needs to be speeded up on the legislative side. In line with the view of the committee, the preparation must be accompanied by a new regulation in order to maintain public-owned water supply activities. Indeed, the work must be carried forward quickly, as stated in the Committee's opinion, in order to obtain at least a report on the progress of the reform of the law already during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u55	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u56	Madam President! Firstly, I would like to thank the citizens' initiative makers and also the committee for their very good and thorough work. This citizens' initiative is something that this House as a whole supports. No one in Finland can own water in the natural cycle. There is no private ownership of it, and this basic Prince of the Water Management Act shows that water definitely has a special status as an essential asset outside private ownership. This basic idea of our water law, could I say, is also well implemented by the UN resolution on water as a human right. On the other hand, water supply and its water supply infrastructure can be owned. And even though the majority of this water infrastructure is owned by non-profit cooperatives in Finland or by non-profit cooperatives, the legislation does not clearly ensure that municipalities do not have the opportunity to decide on the sale of this water supply property, and that is what this citizens' initiative is all about. In other words, our legislation needs regulations which, while respecting the autonomy of municipalities, can prevent municipalities, for example, from selling public-owned water infrastructure to private individuals in their money shortages. We have a number of foreign examples that warn us about that road. You shouldn't go to that. And the committee is very pleased to note that this issue should be raised in the context of the revision of the Water Management Act and this preparatory working group will be set up in 2021. And, as the committee has explained here, it is very likely that this overall reform of the provisions of the Water Management Act will not reach the end of this term of government, when it is important that this Parliament, by the end of 22, should have an account of where it is going with this reform, and I am sure that we will see in the same context how these legislative reforms which the citizens' initiative and the committee are hoping for are moving forward. However, just as Mr Eskelinen has pointed out, I should like to draw attention to what has been raised with great care and concern in the report, namely that we have a major water supply repair debt, and that is something the committee sees as a very serious problem. The same applies to these water cooperatives. In particular, the many people involved in water cooperatives, especially in sparsely populated areas, are older and there are many shortcomings in knowledge — the greater the variety of digital systems and, on the other hand, the different authorities’ obligations and information management, and these pose different challenges. And this need for investment and the need for repair, which is currently in our water supply network, should also be considered as a whole in relation to the local government finances situation. However, the fact that we have water supply from public property does not mean that the municipalities might not be tempted to impose a hidden tax on the rest of the municipal economy in order to make up water for citizens and residents. And this committee's report states that, based on the information available, there is no way for the committee to assess whether or not water charges currently contain some form of hidden tax or how common this phenomenon is. In this context, I think it would probably make sense — in the same way as we do under the Electricity Market Act, the authority is examining whether this is reasonable, and what is the so-called reasonableness which has been considered on several occasions here in Parliament — in the same way as in the case of water, such a review would be carried out nationally, and that such an examination would now also be carried out by a certain authority. I hope that this will be taken into account when this revision of the Water Management Act is being carried out, that we will have a market authority that will examine this issue, even though this is not a private market asset. But the local authorities in this economic situation, which many of us as decision-makers also know, may be tempted to make this patchwork of municipal finances also through water supply. And in this context, I would also like to remind you of the situation in small municipalities. Small municipalities may have, for example, industrial plants, large companies that put a lot of pressure on that water supply, and then, at the price of water, this need for repair and investment is not necessarily dared to go to the site, so that many small municipalities may face major water supply measures and investments. I hope that this issue as a whole will also be examined at the time of this review of the Water Management Act and this working group will get its work under way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u57	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u58	Mr President! This citizens' initiative is to be welcomed and it is therefore a good thing that the committee has taken a positive view of this in its entirety. Of course, we are waiting for the measures by which the government, in practice, will promote these parliamentary positions and refine the Water Management Act and other related legislation. Most of the points that are relevant to this issue have already been raised at this stage, and I will not repeat them more. Of course water is a basic need. Everyone needs water more than once a day, especially clean water. I therefore support all these views that have been expressed here in the past, but I would perhaps like to bring a new perspective on this issue and look further to the future and to the global economy. Clean water, surface water and groundwater is one of the few natural resources that Finland actually has, and in the future these will be increasingly rare in the world with population growth, environmental pollution, perhaps even climate change. In other words, water will be perhaps more important than oil in the future, and we now have it here in Finland. It is a national property to the greatest extent, and it should not under any circumstances be put at risk of being taken over by international corporations or by other supranational players. There will certainly be an interest in our water resources in the future from the state. I would not be surprised if a large Eastern country were interested in starting to sell water around the world, and that raw material was available in Finland. Or the EU has already shown an interest in socialising Finland’s forest resources, so why not at some point the EU can show an interest in socialising Finland’s water resources? So I throw in the air the idea that we should at least protect our water resources — and perhaps other national assets, perhaps ore resources — at the very level of the Constitution, that we will not be able to intervene lightly at a later stage by means of normal legislation or international agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u59	Congressman Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u60	Mr President! First of all, I would like to express my thanks to the authors of the citizens' initiative for bringing this issue of social importance under the legislative process. In its report, the committee has dealt with this issue with the seriousness it requires. It is essential that the risks highlighted in the citizens' initiative in relation to the privatisation of water resources are addressed. There are bad experiences of the privatisation of natural monopolies in Finland, for example in recent history with regard to the electricity network. In addition, plans for, for example, the integration of the fairway network fell into the crushing feedback. In addition to the electricity grid, water supply is a natural monopoly, which is of paramount importance in our daily lives. Its privatisation must, at least in part, be viewed with extreme criticism. It is the task of a private company to make a profit to its owner. There is a significant risk in the Monopolistic position that the interests of the company are to the detriment of the consumer, in particular with regard to customer charges. As far as electricity transmission is concerned, many consumers feel that prices are already being exploited. It is good that there are already some obstacles to the excessive sale of domestic water in our legislation. Under the Water Act, water abstraction, other than for municipal water supply, is always the last resort. A shortage of water must not be created by selling it elsewhere. However, the plans of a few municipalities for the privatisation of water supply require a review of the legislation to ensure the functioning and accessibility of water supply to society and its potential for exploitation. This is also a security of supply issue. The committee has made an excellent assessment of the power of the municipalities to decide on their own finances and, on the other hand, of how the current obligations of the municipalities and economic developments have resulted in the plight of many municipalities, where additional revenue may also be sought through the privatisation of water supply. The committee concludes that, in view of the responsibility for the organisation of municipal water management, it is possible that legislation will have to address the question of how water management is to be implemented. However, I cannot help but note that the issues that have now arisen regarding water supply also apply to many other natural resources in Finland. For example, there are warning examples of mining activities in which foreign companies have liquidated our national property and left a polluted environment behind. In legislative work, national interests and the well-being of Finns must always prevail. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u61	Congressman Semi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u62	Madam President! Firstly, I should like to thank the citizens' initiative and its authors, the committee and the very well-spoken chairman of the committee, Mr Kalmar, for this important matter, which we now have in this debate. Water is the most important raw material in life, the most important raw material in all life. Without water, we have no life at all. Water supply must therefore be kept under the control and control of society. The water is ours, and this is how it has to be. I asked for the floor to raise the issue of the way in which municipal water companies deal with matters, the status of water supply in the municipality and its tax policy vis-à-vis municipal businesses. In their tax policy, businesses must respect the reasonableness required by the Water Management Act to cover the costs of water supply, and at most a small return must be on-line and no more. According to my information, this is being circumvented quite extensively in Finland by the incorporation of water plants. Water utilities comply with the law on limited liability companies — there is no separate law that would ensure a reasonable price for customers. These transfers to the company are often carried out by transferring the network to it with a debt for which we have to pay interest, and the debt back to the water company, and there is usually some kind of income requirement that consumers have to pay. Thus, the tax on water and water has become a hidden tax, which brings those poor people who have already been exempt from municipal tax back to the municipal tax and, in particular, to the equal tax system. When I think about this issue of water installation in general, what benefits it has for the consumer and for compliance with the Water Management Act, the benefits are very limited, and that is why I am opposed to any kind of integration of the water system, because they are made into such hidden tax payers. I myself have wondered what the efficiency might be, what the minor benefit might be. There's only one thing I've come up with that's the benefits and the financial benefits, and it's the CEO of the water company. In my opinion, it should be managed as a municipal activity in such a way that water distribution is carried out by the municipal business body as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u63	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u64	Mr President! Compared to the international scene, Finland has very rich and good quality surface water and groundwater. Clean water is an everyday matter for us, in fact, both good and bad. We easily take clean water for granted and do not pay enough attention to its adequacy and quality. It is clear that every Finnish must have access to clean and affordable water. However, it is not clear that this will be the case forever and ever. Last winter, even a lively public debate took place when a few cities or municipalities announced plans to sell water supply to private parties. Of course, the experience gained from the electricity market with the development of electricity transmission prices in connection with the privatisation of electricity networks is a source of fear. In addition to drinking and domestic water, national water resources are an important raw material for the domestic industry. Water supply is part of critical infrastructure and also has a security of supply and security policy perspective. The functioning of the system must also be guaranteed in crisis situations. Water facilities and infrastructure must therefore, as a general rule, be heavily owned by the public. Mr President! In Finland, there are also a large number of non-profit water cooperatives owned and managed by users, in addition to municipal water plants. These customer-owned water supply plants must be able to continue to operate. In preparing the new legislation, account must be taken of the many different ownership arrangements already taking place in Finland. Account must also be taken of the correction debt incurred in water supply. According to the Water Management Act, the starting point is that the costs of water supply are covered by charges for water supply services. In the future, water supply charges need to be better steered towards the discharge of the repair debt. President! I would like to thank the signatories of this citizens' initiative and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for an important report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u66	Congressman Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u67	Mr President! The Water is our citizens' initiative is very timely and important and it was discussed very thoroughly in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. The main objective of the citizens' initiative is to maintain public-owned water management in national hands and not to sell it to commercial private owners. The objective is a textbook example of nationalistic politics. At the heart of nationalist policy is also the appreciation and preservation of our national ownership, such as water resources, in national hands. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry also stated that water management as a whole is a key function for the functioning and security of supply of society. According to the Water Act, you cannot acquire ownership of water itself in Finland, nor can the owner of the land own surface water and groundwater on its territory. Thus, according to the Water Act, neither foreign nor domestic entities can acquire water resources. However, this citizens' initiative and its numerous signatories also confirm to Parliament that it is hoped that this will continue to be the case in Finland. Our water reserves are not intended for foreign business, although elsewhere in the world our water resources may be of great interest. Mr President! The report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry therefore agrees with the message of the citizens' initiative and proposes that the Government should take action as soon as possible to prepare legislation to ensure that the public-owned water supply activities of the municipality are maintained under the responsibility of organising the municipality under the ownership and control of the municipalities. However, my concern is that municipal water companies and businesses, as well as water cooperatives, often have a lot of repair debts. On the other hand, it is worrying that municipalities that are heavily indebted even have to consider the incorporation of municipal water supply companies and then possibly the sale of part or all of them. In such a situation, something has gone terribly wrong. I would like once again to thank the authors of the initiative and its signatories. This is an important issue and it is very good that it is taken seriously here in Parliament. I also hope that the government will take action as soon as possible, in accordance with the committee's report, so that we can secure our water resources even better. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u68	Congressman Koponen, Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u69	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Mr Kalmari, finished his speech aptly: we did this together. This is exactly what you'd want to hear more about in this house. Citizens have the right to influence the drafting of legislation and to be heard. This citizens' initiative shows that this is indeed the case. Citizens really have a chance to make a difference when you have a desire. Thank you to those active drafters of the initiative and to the signatories who consider it necessary to reform water management legislation. I am not going to repeat the previous good speeches, but I fully agree with them. Thank you for your cooperation and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u71	Irade the Talman! Marknaden kan lösa många problema, egentligen de flesta, men i vissi situationer får vi inte en fungerande marknad utan vi får någonting som vi callar naturligt monopol. Där är ju vattenförsörjningen ett slående exempel. Det auri gör att vi måste se till att varje medborgare i Finland får rent vatten till ett rimligt pris. Jag vill passa på att tacka de som har satt i gång det ox medborgariitiativet som vi också kan se att nu leder till vi hoppeligen — eller inte hoppeligen utan småningom, ganska snabbt — kommer att få en lagstiftning som garanterar det som utskottet vill.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u72	Thank you, Mr President. The Water is our citizens' initiative proposes to launch preparations for the creation of legislation to prevent the sale of public-owned water supply operators to private operators. In addition, the initiative requires that current ownership be held by the public sector. The Finnish People's Parliament Group, and of course the undersigned, attaches great importance to the public debate on water supply as a necessity and the value of water supply for society raised by the citizens' initiative. Today, Finland is facing a situation in which municipalities play a strong role in the organisation of water supply services. That is how it should continue to be. Mr President! As has been said, it is important that municipalities continue to remain the main owners of water supply facilities. Therefore, control over the strategic solutions of water supply plants should not be handed over to the private sector. It should also be borne in mind that the organisation of water supply services today is an important part of the municipal strategic development. It must be based on the municipality’s land use planning objectives and be linked to the implementation of the plans. Water supply cooperatives owned by customers must also be able to act in the future as producers of water supply services in our country. Mr President! The initiative's proposal should therefore be examined in the context of the work on the reform of water management legislation which will be launched as part of the national water supply reform. The solution best suited to our national system to address the concerns raised in the citizens' initiative can only be found through extensive and thorough legislative work, which also takes into account the rest of our water supply system and its development needs, without forgetting our security of supply. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has also reached this same conclusion in its own report. I would also like to mention that the report was unanimous. For that, thank you to Mr Kalmar and the other members of the committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u73	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u74	Mr President! An excellent initiative — thanks to the citizens' initiative makers. This initiative on this subject is just topical, that is, Water is ours, the water of life. It is just our basic needs when we think about daily life, that is, if it were privatised and controlled by someone else, it would be somehow affected by its availability or its quality, so at least personally I think this initiative is excellent. This report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry is also excellent and I thank the committee and Mr Kalmar for this consensus. If I understand correctly, I think it is the first consensus in this House for a citizens' initiative. There we were thinking with another representative that there might have been one before, but it changed here in Parliament. Even though many of these citizens' initiatives come to us, we are now one of the first to adopt them. In other words, water supply is central to the functioning of society and, in particular, to security of supply and, in particular, to life, and its ownership must be ensured so that it is available to all of us. In particular, this initiative has just proposed that the citizens' initiative should be used as a starting point for launching new legislation on water supply. It is also very important and central to how our water resources are used and how, among other things, they are protected and then managed. This report has dealt well with this structure of our water supply operators. We have several different players in this field. It is also worth considering, as this report has touched upon, how the investments in water management in small municipalities and also in small cooperatives will work in the future. A very large proportion of these water cooperatives are located in rural areas, where it is done on a voluntary basis, as is the case with the water cooperative itself, the water cooperative in Pohjaslahti, which I myself have been launching 96. The way in which our expertise and cooperation with other actors work, so that we have high quality water and the system plays, has been taken on board, which is all right, that in the future, activities in different parts of Finland will play equally in large urban cities, but also in sparsely populated areas, and that there is a need to cooperate with different water cooperatives. It must be mentioned that the Ely of Pirkanmaa had a good attitude to the fact that water cooperatives were chained up just for security of supply. So if there is a power outage in the groundwater area or someone else is going to happen, it can always be connected to the needs of the next water cooperative. These chains have been carried out across municipal boundaries. It is very important that our various activities, our daily well-being itself, but then also the industries that need water, should also receive water. In other words, good attention is being paid to these 1800 water supply operators and organisations, and their investments have also been addressed in this report. All in all, Mr President, this is a good report, and I hope that the Council of State will take these efforts seriously and, as has been done here by the end of 22, that this reform will soon be dealt with and that this legislation will come into force from all sides, so that the spirit of the citizens' initiative will be included. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u75	Like this. — Representative Kärnä — Representative Kärnä is absent, representative Savola — representative Savola is absent. — Representative Holopainen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u76	Mr President! I am pleased that this initiative has received a positive response. We in the Greens have also supported it. Although the availability of water is not yet a problem in Finland — on the contrary, we have excellent reserves and excellent groundwater resources — the climate crisis will also make it more difficult to access fresh water, so this valuable resource will be more valuable in the future. I hope that, now that the value of fresh water has been collectively recognised, it will be clearly identified in other environmental decisions which can maintain and improve the quality of clean water. If we look at the map after studying the cleanest waters in different parts of Finland, there are blue areas, especially in the north and then in eastern Finland. It should be noted that, for example, one project fell because it overburdened Kallavesi, and it is very important that we ourselves take proactive steps to ensure that projects that overburden our waters are not approved. At the same time, we are committed to maintaining at least the same status and improving the status of water bodies, so I hope that this good initiative will also give greater value to our freshwater reserves and, in particular, to the recognition of the value of groundwater there. Indeed, there are sometimes projects in this area which do not in any way meet the strict environmental criteria, but vice versa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u77	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u78	Mr President! This citizens' initiative to prevent the privatisation of water supply is an excellent initiative, and the chairman of the committee, Mrs Kalmari, in her own speech, did very well describe and describe the consensus that prevailed in committee when this initiative was discussed. Thank you for your excellent speech and for the excellent opening-up. Of course, special thanks are due to those involved in this citizens' initiative, to those people, to those who did good work for this. Thank you to all the signatories individually and to all the people who worked for it. That's an excellent job. Similarly, the committee has done an excellent job, and the experts involved must have been... I read this report plus the background to it, and it is an excellent, thorough work done. They're all warm, thank you. It is important to prevent our water resources, public-owned water supply activities, from being sold to external commercial operators. The fall of such a natural monopoly into the wrong hands would be extremely damaging to society. We have sold these natural monopolies to our detriment. We all know the cases. Let them be a warning example from the electric side of how not to act. I find it irresponsible that such decisions have been made. And in this context I would hope that, when we deal with this matter, we would deal with this national wealth in such a way that it is a common wealth for us Finns and we would not give it up for the benefit of foreign people. Forests are exactly the kind of asset I would like to keep in the hands of Finns, but at the moment foreign investment companies are buying it, and there are situations that I would never want to see. But the water issue is now on the table, and I hope that this report that has now been submitted to us will then come as an amendment to the Water Act, and by doing so we will ensure that under no circumstances would such damage occur if the water supply were transferred to foreign ownership. It is also a national security issue. We know that it is quite possible in the present world that crises arise, crises that we ourselves cannot affect outside our borders, but in that situation we could even be threatened in a hostile way by the functioning of water supply. We must ensure that clean drinking water is available to everyone in this country and is properly priced and owned by Finnish people. This is an important issue. Finland is perhaps one of the best countries in the world from its water resources. We have clean groundwater almost unlimited. And I can say that, for example, my own summer cottage is located in an area where there is a groundwater area, and the lake on which the cottage is located is so clean that you can actually drink it — and I'm sure you'll stay healthy, so many years I've tried it. It's excellent coffee-soup water, too. It's good quality water. That is the kind of water we have at national level and must be regarded as such. It should also be noted that when the new water law is adopted, we must ensure that, when these water resources are owned by Finns, we can then, under certain reasonable conditions, also use it in marketing, i.e. sell it abroad when we do it and do not give it to foreign ownership. Some Finnish companies — today there are many companies — bottle this water and then sell it abroad and sell it to the supermarkets. It's kind of sad that even in this town you can go to a supermarket and buy — like a representative Myllykoski gave me an excellent education — French water. I think we have a better quality of water here in Helsinki than what is brought here by ships or trucks from France. This is a good thing to remember. Water is the essence of life, it is so important that we cannot even imagine its greatness, but it could be said that this incident in Jyväskylä came as a great, great gift to this nation, because so suddenly there is also a complete consensus in Parliament that we keep these things in the hands of Finns. Finally, Mr President, I would like this consensus to be maintained, both in forestry matters and in matters of soil wealth, and not to go against each other for political reasons to the detriment of the public. That is the kind of consensus I hope for from this nation, and I believe it will be found. We are living in such dangerous times today that supranational ownership strives everywhere. When money is dumped on the market now in huge amounts, it leads to such convulsional changes of ownership, which, under bad circumstances, could be very damaging to the Finns. Let us stick to national riches. We have already given them up enough, but let us stick to what is left and try to strengthen Finnish ownership, especially in such monopolistic regions, which are vital for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u80	And Congressman Mäkinen — Representative Mäkinen gone. — Mr Al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u81	Mr President! A good starting autumn for all the speakers and colleagues.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u84	Like this. — and Mr Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u85	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I myself was involved in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry with this report and it was indeed unanimous. I personally appreciate the fact that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has dealt with this for a long time. In a very diverse way, examples were taken from abroad and different options were considered. Therefore, the main thing that people here drive, that this is held by society, controlled — mainly owned — and thus prevented the flow of money outside their own economic territory is, in my view, an extremely healthy phenomenon, especially since we have seen on the electricity market and a little elsewhere where it will lead, if this kind of natural monopoly and society infra is sold out, because it means that dividends run away and usually tax payments are a little so and thus different from holding companies or other arrangements. But I do not think that too much threat stories should ever go into the building, at least for Members of Parliament. You have to stay about in the truth. I remember a similar incident at the time, and I was thinking a little about history here, that when we had the Metsähallitus Act in the parliament at the hearing, the media collected huge attention and encouraged the collection of names, there must have been 130,000 of them, that Finland's nature is not for sale and that Finland's nature and forests must not be privatised. However, it was clear to us parliamentarians that it was Metsätalous Oy, and it was because it did not happen to have an aria. This kind of threat story can be a selling story, and it can wiggle even large sections of the peoples and take a little politically in a certain direction, but you have to stick to the truth. It's a bit of the same thing right now. Even today, no one, no one or anyone, whether domestic or foreign, owns surface water and does not own groundwater and is not able to use it recklessly on the basis of land ownership. It is now well secured by law, and I believe that Mr Simula was the only representative of Parliament who brought this up directly by reading about the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. I myself looked through the Water Act quite quickly and then other legislation. The Water Management Act, for example, clearly defines what can be done. And when no one actually owns the water — it cannot be owned by law — the law has a clear priority order for which to use the water at any time. And the threat that there would be a shortage of water and someone bottled it and sold it out will certainly not be able to do so under Finnish law. First, the needs of the citizens. Even the needs of industry are not the first to be prioritised; they are the needs of the citizens. So in the sense of this kind of threat creation, that if this is started to be sold, then soon the Chinese own our groundwater and others — it is impossible under the current legislation. This need no longer be re-emphasised, as it were, in legislation, not in the Water Act or in the Water Management Act. That is what I would like to point out, Mr President, that we are broadly in the truth. Then we come to another point, which the committee here stresses is that this must remain under the control of the municipalities. I think it's right to say it's control, because in general it involves that when the Finnish State owns 51 per cent of Fortum, it is controlled by the state, but then 49 per cent is held by shareholders and anyone else, and then they enjoy dividends, as does the state. Now that we have thus determined that there should be stricter legislation, let us see what comes out of it in due course. But if it is so that the municipality is owned and controlled, I believe that the municipality can sell 49 per cent elsewhere, and there may be such a simple reason that the municipality is seeking expertise there, because it may be that the expertise itself is no longer enough, perhaps even the funds are not enough to manage — of course, the debt is owed to the municipality. But if an expert body is taken there as a partner, then we will come to the most important factor that is now in that law, that, first of all, there must be a separate accounting unit, as it is now, and, when it is a separate accounting unit, it must, of course, cover investment and maintenance costs, and the law again mentions a reasonable return, just the same as the reasonable return on capital mentioned in the Electricity Market Act. Well, we have seen what happened in 2016, when, of course, the Energy Agency independently, as it should be, made a new definition of a reasonable return, that's where this Caruna circus started. And in order to prevent that, I think it would be important for Parliament to consider what that reasonable return means and how it is defined. Nor is it impossible when there is such a basic need as water in question, as well as the decision-makers could say that it must be a non-profit-making institution, whether it is a limited company, whether it is privatised or not. In principle, it might be possible that, when it is usually owned by a municipality, it should be profit-free for the long term. Now, however, everyone — or at least in my own municipality and quite a few — is incomed by a water plant, which in practice is a dividend given to the municipality. It is often forgotten that when there is still some kind of profit claim, it keeps a certain posture in its operations, and if, for example, the energy companies currently owned by municipalities do not pay dividends — many think so, and that is a noble and good opinion — it might very soon lead to that energy company, the network company being sold elsewhere. In my view, these are the things that we, the chairman of the committee, can then correct if I am not right, were considered for a very long time in the committee, how these formulations are to be made, because there are so many things here that may in fact result in what this citizens' initiative does not want, in other words in terms of higher rates. In other words, privatisation is not the same as a price runaway. It depends on what kind of reasonable return will be determined in this sector too. That's what I think we should do. It should not differ very much from the prevailing interest rate, but it is, admittedly, extremely difficult. Mr President! That was something that had to be explained a little more broadly, because I, of course, am in favour of this report. Hopefully, when Finnish municipalities, whether because of a shortage of money or otherwise, sell these companies, they will retain that ownership and control, and even in dividend policy there will be no shareholder agreements that make this reasonable return,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u86	Like this. — Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u87	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! It is good that these important issues are being discussed in Parliament, and this citizens' initiative is yet another such initiative. Thank you to the people who launched the initiative and also to all those who have signed this citizens' initiative. The title of this citizens’ initiative entitled ‘The European Union’s’ is astoundingly well-willed as this citizens’initiativeis intended for us as In other words, this citizens' initiative is in the process of carrying out its own task. We in Parliament have talked a lot about natural monopolies in recent years. Of course, electricity may be the most intense and the biggest problem in many ways — many long discussions have taken place and solutions have been sought. The measures taken by the current government have done something and corrected it, and I hope that the legislative initiative taken by Mr Vestman of the Assembly will finally be implemented and will bring this electricity situation to an even better conclusion. I myself have also raised the issue of high-speed broadband networks in this Chamber. There is a possibility that similar problems will arise in the future, which we have now encountered with electricity networks and also with water and water networks. I hope that when making broadband networks, there will be wisdom from a distance. It is good that this responsibility for water will continue to lie with the municipalities and that control will also remain with the public administration. These are two fundamental issues in this water initiative, and I would like to be very supportive of them. But I would also like to point out that our legislation today makes it possible for a neighbouring community or a neighbouring town to come and make a water supply plant on the other side of another municipality in the event that it is not in danger or that another municipality is not in need of it. But in my own municipality, for example, we have encountered situations where the wells of landowners in this area — but above all the houses and landowners — are being emptied by these operations and even the water levels of natural ponds and lakes are falling. So they count permanently with such big things being done. These have still been mere test water abstractions and, fortunately, they have been won so far and have not been put into effect. And I hope that in these, too, this dignity of landowners, property owners and nature can be taken into account and not made fundamental mistakes. So if we mix that groundwater flow, which is visible in clean ponds and wells and so on, it may no longer be repairable after the water costs change there. Mr President! It is great that we have active citizens and a listening Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u88	Congressman S.H.I.E.L.D. is gone. — Representative Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u89	Mr President! When it comes to ownership, I believe that the Finnish State and the Finnish citizens own the waters. It has ownership, we may not have to argue about it, but the form in which someone might then come to own is another matter. But I, as a member of the municipality of Nakkila, feel like I own the water of Nakkila. It cannot be owned by someone else, even though I have no ownership of it. This is how I feel that the Finnish Water Act has defined ownership without frankly saying that it belongs to Finns. But in view of these different monopolies, of course Digita and Caruna and Katainen's government, where the left-wing coalition in the only ministerial group opposed this trade. Those tracks have been repaired over the years. And Mr Heinonen did take a good example of what might happen when it comes to fibre networks. We also have a Finnish operator to do that if we want to develop and build a domestic fibre network at national level. On the other hand, I dare say that, when we talk about these water plants at this point, they have to be owned by the municipal authorities and so on, the most important thing is that this water supply network, which is not the water pumping plant, is then also owned by the national authorities, because if it were to be owned by a foreign organisation, that water ownership would then indirectly be transferred to the owner of the network. As far as I am concerned, I can continue to stress that it has been great to be able to draw up such a unanimous report. And when Mr Pirttilahti said that this was the first consensus, I do not remember whether it was also unanimous — I am not quite sure — but it was also one of the citizens’ initiatives, which, in a way, went to the finish line. The report stated that there was agreement with the citizens' initiative, but it was not possible to do so. On the basis of this report, Parliament required the government to take action to put an end to this shift of clocks in the EU. The then Minister for Transport took the matter to the EU, and it was stated that:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u90	Like this. — and Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u91	Mr President! A brief word on the matter of water: Access to clean water for all Finns through Finnish ownership has a spirit and life for us, quite clearly, and I am pleased to see and find it very comforting that Parliament is unanimous on this issue, and this message will probably then go to the officials preparing the water law and to all the people who are currently working with it. It should be as bright as spring. As far as these other natural monopolies are concerned, Mr Myllykoski, again, according to his good, skilled skills, raised these fibre companies. They are also national property. I can say a word of comfort to Mrs Myllykoski that in my municipality of Ilomants, when we were negotiating with domestic operators about who would build us that photo fibre, the answer was quite clear: never, never, never, never. The municipality of Ilomants decided unanimously that the municipality should build it itself, and we now own this fibre company itself and manage it 100%, and the company is profitable and profitable, and soon, it won't be long, it's a debt-free company and the municipality owns it 100%. So this is what should be done. At the construction stage, the state provided us with aid, i.e. investment aid, which is part of it, but then everything else depended on our own activity. The municipality did so, and it has attracted great praise from all the actors. With regard to water, the same procedure should prevail, so that we keep it firmly in the hands of society and do not allow other actors to come here. Think of drinking water: if the horror scenarios started to spread — which I do not do now, but just say this — it will open up opportunities for any kind of action if it is ruled by someone other than Finnish society. It is an absolutely central issue for the functioning of society. I hope that this consensus will indeed remain on these big issues in this house across the party lines, and what the citizens' initiative makers and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry have done in their own work now will be an example of the national consensus that I have unfortunately noticed recently, due to the various issues that have arisen. The European Union — if the President so permits — has tried to stick its cold foot in Finnish democracy and Finnish ownership, as it were, as other men. That's what we have to stop. I will come back to that next time those things will be in the big room. But what we were discussing today in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and what is emerging there are messages which are just as dangerous for Finland as this issue is. Thank you to all those who have worked with this initiative. You've done a great job.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u92	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u93	Mr President! I said about this ownership that, if you look directly at the report, you cannot have ownership of the water itself in Finland, according to the Water Act. Thus, even foreign or domestic entities cannot legally acquire water resources. I meant this. Of course they are owned by the Finnish State, and it is now clear that no one else can own this now. But this ownership matters. Whether it is a business or a municipal business or whatever, ownership matters in such a way that there is really enough professionalism. This correction debt has been raised here, especially in small municipalities, and when it comes soon to meet the question of whether all these new-time digital systems will be sufficient there, whether there will be sufficient investment, whether there will be sufficient skills, how far-distance control and all these things, there may therefore be a situation where, for example, the municipality will sell it to a provincial company owned by the municipalities, which will then have more resources and resources to deal with these issues. That is why no ban can be imposed on this place so that the municipality must own it, because then we would restrict the right of local self-determination and, in fact, we would do a disservice to ownership. That's why you always have to leave the back door to the partnership, that there's a owner there who has the resources and the know-how to do the job that the law defines. This was the purpose of my speech earlier. Thank you all for this debate. Rarely have such a united group been dealing with the citizens' initiative this time. In fact, you can also thank the market failures and the kind of greed that appeared in the transfer prices, because if that had not been the case, then this citizens' initiative would probably have failed and Parliament's report would have failed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u94	Like this. — and Mr S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u95	Mr President! There has been a very good debate here today, and it is a real pleasure to make a contribution to this debate. This is the oldest we have today in this debate, namely water and, more specifically, a citizens' initiative to prevent the privatisation of water supply. The people know. For this citizens' initiative is very much to be welcomed. In principle, the privatisation of water supply does not make any sense. Many European countries and cities have tried to privatise water supply and have been fundamentally disappointed, and the same steps have been taken back very humbly. After all, we regard clean water in the same way as health: it can only be appreciated when it is lost. And we have so much of this clean water that we really take it for granted. We still have a strange number of watercourses that can be drank directly without any cleansing, and that is something that many foreigners find completely incomprehensible. Can we appreciate enough things like this? 2.2 billion people live without clean water. 4.2 billion people live without proper toilets and sanitation, and every day 800 children under five die from diseases caused by dirty water and poor hygiene. The world’s water supply accounts for only 2.5% of fresh water, and one percent of that we use for drinking water, and that reserve is getting smaller and smaller. The importance of clean water will continue to grow, and water belongs to all of us. That is where Mr Eestiläk was very grateful to us all for not being able to own it. However, we must also take particular care of it in the sense of who owns its water supply and how it is done. In other words, Mr President, we must be able to appreciate things that are clear, such as clean water. A big thank-you to the citizens' initiative makers and a big thank-you to Mr Eestilä. I very much enjoyed listening to such excellent, expert and statesmen talk on this subject, which was very enlightening and instructive. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u96	Like this. — And the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Kalmari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u97	Mr President! Thank you for this very good debate, for which I am sure the draftsmen of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, who are also eager to begin work, will receive a lot of advice. I would like to thank the authors of the initiative, Joona Mielonen, Olli Kohonen, Hilkka Haaga, Vesa Plath, Heidi Hietalahti and Jouni Jussiniemi for their activity. This shows that it is worthwhile to cultivate activity, but it is worth taking action. They can turn big things around. I think this was an historic decision. And on the subject of these last speeches: Indeed, the committee stressed that the provision of support services from private companies is widespread in water supply plants and that private sector involvement in the implementation of water supply services and investments is also important for the development of the digitalization sector and for the improvement of skills. So, of course, services from private people should continue to be provided. This does not mean curling up, but it means that this national wealth, water management activities, is being held to and not allowed to do business, because with such a natural monopoly it would certainly not do any good. And finally, I would like to say that the condition of groundwater is also an absolute value and that is something that we must continue to take care of. Once again, thank the committee and the committee adviser for their excellent work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u98	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 11/2021 vp. — Mr Viitanen, chairman of the committee's tax section.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u99	Mr President! As we have heard here, as President of the section, I am presenting this report by the Committee on Finance, which, overall, is unanimous. After all, this citizens' initiative was taken a couple of years ago, and, unfortunately, for reasons beyond Parliament's control, it is only now that it is being dealt with, because we have lived with this corona pandemic and it has also complicated our own timetables. But I would also like to thank the citizens' initiative makers for this initiative, because I think that citizens' initiatives are always very important. They are part of Finnish democracy, and they reflect people's activity and desire to raise important issues in the debate and also affect society. This initiative is therefore about proposing the abolition of the power tax on diesel cars. Although we cannot agree with this as a committee, we do, however, appreciate this initiative and, of course, wanted it to be properly dealt with. I am going to go over some of the arguments put forward by the committee, which we have recorded on the basis of an expert consultation. We shall begin by stating the structure of our system. In other words, the power tax is essentially related to the taxation of fuels and should be considered as part of Finland's environmental-based energy tax model. And this model is designed to tax different fuels in a neutral way, and this fuel tax is determined by the energy and carbon content of each fuel and its close emission characteristics. All fossil and bio-based transport fuels should have the same energy content tax linked to the tax level of petrol. But this is also about the fact that we generally have tax subsidies here, with which Finland has specifically wanted to support heavy traffic, our lorries, bus and coach transport, the export industry. All in all, the whole question of this reduced rate of taxation for diesel is precisely the question of tax aid for this transport. That is precisely why our structure will then include this power tax, which is there on the passenger car side. All in all, the tax on diesel is not as high as the basis for calculating our energy tax model would therefore require. And in this mitigating tax on diesel fuel, because it exists, there is such a bad thing that if we wanted to give up this power-generating tax, then that would mean, Mr President, that we would then be forced to abandon this tax subsidy, that is to say, this lower tax rate. And, of course, it became clear in the expert hearings, among other things, that it would of course contribute to reducing the competitiveness of our truck traffic and, overall, to reducing Finland's export opportunities. And this is certainly not what we want to do. Overall, this tax subsidy amounts to around EUR 400 million. That is what we say in our report. In addition to what we are talking about, we are opening up this whole package to some extent, there is then this EU tax system, from which our system as a whole is fundamentally different. That is why this structure is as it is. In other words, it is also a question of the acceptability of the tax system from the point of view of EU law. When we have a chance... We have sometimes presented this whole model to the Commission, and there it has been given acceptability, despite the fact that it differs very substantially from the whole energy tax model in the EU, and then we have, as it were, been given the opportunity to support these different ways at the same time. Here, for example, we say that this also enables us at the moment to make it possible for Finland to have both an obligation to distribute biofuels and a tax model that takes biofuels into account. This is also linked to this issue. So, at the same time, within the framework of our energy tax system, it would not be possible to abolish the power tax at the same time and maintain the lower tax rate for diesel. Here we also say that if, however, such a change were to be made, it could require that energy tax legislation be completely redefined and abandoned, either as regards favourable tax treatment for biofuels or as regards the promotion of biofuels by means of a distribution obligation. And we wanted to be more specific as to whether this is really the case. We asked the Ministry of Finance for further clarification as to what this would mean. And this was an unambiguous conclusion. Consideration was given to what was highlighted in the expert hearings: It's actually what I've been through. In other words, this power tax is also linked to the lower fuel tax level than diesel fuel, the power tax is used to differentiate the tax burden on heavy traffic and passenger transport, and then, overall, this would be detrimental to the climate objective, and this is a loss of competitiveness, which I have already said. These were the elements which were widely presented to the committee in the expert consultation. The third point that I would like to mention specifically, which we are writing about in this report, is that we are reminding you that this is part of the whole package of taxation in the transport system. The Ministry of Finance set up a working group like this to sort out this entity, and in May this report was received from the working group. But since then there have been no further political orientations. When this issue is linked to this large entity and, in any case, further orientations will be made in the future, the whole system may eventually change a lot too, we see very strongly that this is part of such a large entity that, on the basis of this too, it is impossible in practice to go only as a single measure to deal with this and then to abolish this power tax. So here's the sum total, let's say this. In view of 1) the current tax system as a whole and its acceptability from the point of view of EU legislation, (2) the above comments on the need to differentiate between the fuel tax level of heavy and passenger transport and (3) these climate objectives are the reasons why this is proposed to be rejected. And I'm sure, as I said, this whole thing will come to mind in the future. I would like to say one more thing, Mr President, although I know that time is passing. We also note here that not only does these tax issues have a fiscal purpose at all, but, of course, this is also an emission reduction target. But the committee also stresses that these reforms, which will be done, must always take account of the objectives of justice, that is to say social justice and then regional justice. We will mention these. President! As I said, our report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u100	Like this. Thank you for the introduction. — Mr Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u101	Mr President! Finland is a long country of long distances. From the end of Finland to the end, from Hanko to Utsjoki, comes by car, measuring 1389 kilometers. In the sparsely populated region, most of Finland, the car is absolutely necessary. For those who accumulate miles, the diesel car has so far been the only sensible option for at least two reasons: diesel cars consume less than petrol cars, and fuel has been cheaper for tax reasons. It is easy to understand the idea of citizens' initiativers — thanks for raising the debate for those who do. Diesel's been tilting every year. A tank is costing more and more. But you have to drive, even though it feels in your wallet. Many diesel owners have felt that the price of diesel is almost the same as that of petrol, even though the power tax is substantial. It's easy to say, switch to a petrol car or buy an electric car. Of course, many have done so, but it is not always possible. For example, there are many families with children in Finland who need a large car. Large family cars usually run on diesel, not even electricity at all. The functioning and safety of electric cars with terrible frosts is not yet sufficiently high. There are still far too few charging points for electric cars in the provinces. The issue raised by the citizens' initiative is not simple. The problem would not be eliminated by the abolition of the power tax. According to the unanimous report by the Committee on Finance, the abolition of the power tax would result in the taxation of diesel cars being raised to the same level as petrol. 59.48 cents/litre would be85.43 cents/litre. The price of diesel would therefore increase significantly. Above all, it would be a disaster for heavy traffic. The purpose of the lower taxation of diesel has been, above all, to support truck transport, bus and coach transport, the transport sector and the export industry. At the same time, passenger car drivers have benefited from lower taxation when fuelling diesel. As we heard earlier in the presentation, it is also a matter of the EU's tax system and a larger entity. Higher taxation would mean increased logistics costs. Finally, the consumer would have to pay because the prices of the goods transported would rise. Mr President! It is impossible to demand that everyone switch their diesel cars directly to an electric car. Fortunately, there are other solutions. Biofuels with lower environmental emissions than diesel are developed intensively in Finland. For example, biodiesel is suitable for many diesel cars and this use should be supported. Used cars can reasonably be converted to biogas. Like the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Sipilä last said yesterday at Studio A, now we need to support the development of biogas. New technologies need support at the development stage in order to develop market-based solutions. The production of biogas, for example, from livestock manure, should be supported, for example, from the resources of the recovery package. There are many companies in rural areas that have already come quite far in the development of biogas. It is often bureaucratic that hinders development and the start-up of activities. Licensing arrangements must be made easier, standard discharges must be continued in order to get the production, sale and use of biogas going properly. Our job is to support developing, clean techniques. It's about protecting the environment. Consumers need affordable solutions for both us and the world. Mr President! Finland’s distances are not shortened from this. The car will continue to drive. Let's get a little cleaner and fresher.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u102	Like this. — and Mr Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u103	Mr President! I would like to thank the committee for its report and for the good and thorough clarification of Mr Cape. I quite agree that this citizens' initiative is paying attention to an important issue and I think it is very valuable that the citizens' initiative has received an in-depth examination. The committee in its report states that the consultations have largely highlighted the fact that this power tax is linked to a lower fuel tax level than diesel fuel and the need to differentiate the tax burden on heavy goods and passenger cars by means of a power tax. Of course, this committee's report does not mean, as has already been pointed out here, that it would not be good to look at the taxation of diesel and petrol cars, and I think that, if possible, it would also be good to be able to moderate and reverse these costs of driving. Much has recently been said about the cost of both diesel cars and other motor vehicles, but perhaps more should be said here in the big Chamber of Parliament. People are concerned and talk about how not only the poor condition of the roads but also the cost of driving harms many people’s lives. After all, in recent times fuel pump prices have been swayed above all by world market prices. The world market price of crude oil has waved, and so will we, even though there have been no changes to the tax. Let me mention a few more aspects of driving. After all, over the decades, the situation has evolved in such a way as to ensure that anyone is burdened with taxes and charges as different as the motorist: there is a vehicle tax, a car tax, a fuel tax, there is a value added tax, which is collected for services such as maintenance and repair, and then there is the propulsion tax that we are talking about, and of course the motorist also pays for motor insurance and other costs. Perhaps in some way it has become clear to many that driving is, as it were, something from which tax revenue comes automatically, but, as we have seen now, the increase in the number of electric cars, gas cars and other driving forces will lead to an increasing degree that it is also reflected in government tax revenues, so that driving cannot be such an endless source of money. However, just as has been said, driving is essential for both housing and business here in Finland. In addition to the private sector, there is a message from the transport sector, where the increased costs of diesel, in particular, are putting companies at risk. One solution is that of commercial diesel, which was also included in the government programme. It is a tax solution that is already in place in some EU countries and can reduce the tax burden on diesel used in transport. Mr President! The Government must be commended for the continuation of the transport aid to Eastern and Northern Finland introduced by the Sipilä Government and for the Government's statement that no new increases in taxes will be made on fuels. Now, of course, it is timely to continue to send greetings to the House that no unjustified burden should be imposed on motorists in the name of combating climate change. For example, the talk of national emissions trading would be absurd. The least we can do is to reject any action that makes it difficult for citizens and businesses. It should be borne in mind that state tax revenues from road transport amount to around EUR 8 billion per year. It could take Sweden as a model: Sweden directs about half of its revenue collected from transport to basic bus maintenance and transport infrastructure, but Finland directs only 16%. During this period, the government has wisely increased the funding for basic infrastructure maintenance, but the need, especially for a lower-level road network, is still high, and the need for funding would be greater. Mr President! It is clear that driving and traffic are in a big change, and together we need to consider and make solutions to the fact that it is still possible to travel all over Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u104	Like this. — and Mr Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u105	Mr President! This citizens' initiative clearly raises an important and human issue. It is already evidenced by the speed with which this citizens' initiative was, in time, collected sufficient and even over-the-counter names, that is to say, people were interested in it. The interesting thing about this initiative and answer is how confusing, difficult and complex the network of transport and fuel taxation in Finland has been made since this temporary car tax that we have been 60 years old and ending with all the current fuel taxes. The authors of the initiative and the signatories of the initiative certainly meant that this initiative would abolish the diesel tax and maintain the same pump price for diesel. No one is taking an initiative which means that the pump price for diesel would increase, but in practice the fact that the pump price for diesel would not increase, however possible within the EU, would mean that the tax subsidy for diesel fuel should then be increased by hundreds of millions compared to other fuels. So this is an example of how absurd this fuel taxation system has become. Essentially, people are tired of using traffic and private car use as a continuous dairy cow in central government finances. It is used to fill the budget deficit, taking a lot away from basic requirements in principle. Seventy per cent of the fuel price is tax. Yet, despite this high tax rate, the road network continues to deteriorate. The money's going to be spent on something else. I think that Parliament must react in some way, in general, when mobility is a necessity in Finland, so that people can work and live their lives, and whatever money is spent on transport, no matter how it goes through taxation, is out of other consumption. The money will not then be used to meet the needs of the family, there will be no furniture, there will be no food, there will be no travel, there will be no services, there will be no barbers and other hobbies, they will go into that fuel with taxes. But we have to drive. No one's driving those rides for fun. I would also like to raise the issue a little in the living room of a hippopotamus, which has been ignored in previous speeches. Now, if we assume that cars are getting electrified, that is, people are buying electric cars and charging hybrids, it is already a direct loss of car tax. Download hybrids are currently being very heavily subsidised compared to similar internal combustion engines. Even in expensive cars, car tax can be really marginal about the purchase price of the car if the car is charged hybrid and the nominal consumption is less. In other words, the state supports the procurement of cars by rich people, and that is what this is all about at the moment. Electric cars also have lower car tax rates than internal combustion cars. When you go to that side of the fuel, today electricity is at its best up to four times cheaper than fuel if you go down and calculate what it costs to load that electric car in your home, let alone if you have a free charge advantage — in many workplaces. Even if we assume that electricity needs to be paid for, it can still be four times cheaper than fuel. What, then, will happen to government fuel tax revenues if the car fleet is greatly electrified? Where, then, are those taxes to be charged? Are we inventing billions of cuts to fill that deficiency, or do officials perhaps have some kind of other tax in their back pocket to cover this electric car and then use as a dairy cow? So are we, in a way, tricking people into electrifying their cars, and then later we say that there is such a tax here, which needs to be paid now that there are so many electric cars and they cannot be rid of them? I'm afraid this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u106	Like this. — and Mr Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u107	Mr President! I myself interpret this citizens' initiative in such a way that it only addresses the fact that the cost of driving must not increase. Whatever the details, I think that the big message here — and here how quickly the names have come — is simply that the cost of driving must not increase, rather to count. And this is also, in my opinion, the guiding principle, for the current government and every minister, too, often in their speeches, stress that ‘all changes are made economically, ecologically and socially sustainable’. This is the ring that is usually listed, but in my opinion — you can fix it if you disagree — this social sustainability includes regional sustainability. And when they talk about cars, the Diesel Finland border goes somewhere at the height of Jyväskylä. And when people are forced to drive more there are more diesel cars. And if we do some domestic emissions trading for transport fuels, then it is clear that all of this is going to target the region more and harder, and that should by no means be done. And Mr Viitanen, I hope that you, on the Socialist side, will hold onto this point, that it is not worth Finland to go and make domestic emissions trading of transport fuels, the end of which is exactly the same as an increase in fuel taxes, which would only increase this inequality. Let us now wait for what the EU does and let us take those decisions in peace. But if we look at this reduction in transport emissions and the huge debate on the various tax components and when they support electric cars and when they do what, then in reality it is enough to keep the level of car tax — and perhaps other levels of tax, but more specifically the level of car tax — to keep people buying new cars. That is all Finland needs to do. Then there is no need to do anything at all, because the EU is forcing car manufacturers to sell cars that look like cars with ever-increasing emission regulations. We don’t have to think about what looks like here — it’s enough to buy new cars, so it’s always time to get rid of the old ones. Even now, there is no point in scaring people who drive old diesel cars. I am already saying that they will be driven for 15 to 20 years, and then, if these electric cars and others develop, people may be able to afford to buy old electric cars if someone guarantees that those batteries will be replaced because they may cost a great deal and many cannot afford them. We're in front of this kind of guy. These transport emissions and all transport taxation and so on are done purely because Finland's export revenues are not sufficient, as they are sufficient in Sweden. If we too had a positive current account of between 6 and 8% of GDP, we could easily put a double in the road the next year, but not. But this car debate has gotten out of hand in such a way that too little attention is given to what is the distorted structure of the car trade at the moment. In other words, people are forced to buy second-hand cars, and those safer and new cars are then not bought because of their taxation. We cannot change that fact, nor can we change legislation retrospectively. If we make rash changes it will then continue to import used diesel from Central Europe, as it has been so far, and domestic sales of new cars are suffering, and there are problems there, then remote attention should also be paid to these issues and the structure should be put in place in this car trade that automatically improves traffic safety and reduces emissions. We do not have to think about these different kinds of emissions and worry about saving the world when the EU and the car manufacturers do so without any decisions being made in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u108	Like this. — and the chairman of the tax section of the committee, Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u112	Congressman Savio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u116	Congressman S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u118	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u120	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u128	Congressman S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-09-08-ps-93.u167	Madam President! I get a lot of contacts in the cultural and event fields, and I have had them for a long time. I know a lot of actors in that sector. It has been very sad to observe a number of sectors that have been completely moped in this situation during the corona epidemic and have been clearly losers and those that have been coldly pushed aside. The restaurant sector is one, and then the cultural and event sector is in even worse shape. However, efforts have been made to improve support measures and to understand the sector, but in the field of culture and events this has simply not happened. There would have been a great deal of opportunity to look, for example, at other Nordic countries, at what has been done — for example, in Denmark, there are well-functioning support measures for the cultural and event sectors — but this is not the case either. I was there myself on the steps of the Parliament House when the culture and event sector organized the finest demonstration I have ever witnessed, and I was listening to the promises made by the representatives of the government parties there. Among other things, it was promised that no one will be left alone, no one will be left out, and it was assured that you have now been heard, even though, in fact, it had lasted more than a year at that stage of the epidemic — and it seems strongly that there is still no hearing. But we're already on our way in September. A message from Jukola was recently held in Rovaniemi, and a big music festival was held in the same context. It resulted in exactly zero infection — exactly zero infection. These are the kind of messages we have to react to at the latest and should have reacted long ago. Many tragic situations and bankruptcy could have been avoided, but this has not been the case. I am very much in favour of this bill and I expect the government to take measures. - Thank you.
