ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 12 October 2021. In the debate Mika Niikko, supported by Ville Vähämäki, has tabled a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u2	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u3	The third item on the agenda is the Prime Minister's announcement of the situation in Afghanistan. After the presentation by Mr Haavisto, Minister of Foreign Affairs, I will give the answers in the order I have considered. Responses will be reserved for the plenary session by V-button. An hour and a half is set aside for the proceedings.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u4	Mr President! The last few months have shaken the foundations of our Afghanistan policy. The rapid progress of the Taliban movement in Afghanistan culminated in the fall of the government in August, the closure of several embassies and the international evacuation operation. Now power in Afghanistan is actually held by the Taliban. [Parliament: Speak louder, not with a mic head!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u7	Mr President! Thank you to the Prime Minister for this announcement and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the introduction. This is still a topical issue and it is a good thing that the Minister announced that the Government will carry out some kind of impact assessment of how Afghanistan has been successful. In this context, it is also good to note that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has initially discussed the same issue and the desire to make an impact assessment of the years we have been there. This will be the subject of a debate next week with the Institute for Foreign Policy on how this could be done. In this context, we must also mention the fact that we must be much more specific in the future, or that we must plan on some aspects, that we are not now repeating the same mistakes, as we have been discussing this week, for example, strengthening the involvement of EU military crisis management training mission Mali.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u8	Thank you. — Representative Judgments.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u14	Representative Estonian.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u15	Madam President! This debate is very important, especially since we know the seriousness of this humanitarian crisis. This is not just about Afghanistan, it is also about neighbouring areas, and we must not forget what the situation is in Syria or Yemen. We have also been aware for a long time that the USA wants to withdraw from Afghanistan, and, as a result of this withdrawal at the latest, we have also noticed that the United States is moving more and more towards the Pacific region. Consequently, the instability in Europe's neighbouring regions is increasingly left to us Europeans to deal with. And that is why I would ask Mr Haavisto to open up some of his ideas on how the European Union can strengthen its own role in precisely these unstable neighbourhoods of Europe, which, however, continue to put pressure on us with regard to our own security situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u16	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u17	Madam President! Thank you to the government for bringing this Prime Minister's announcement and for holding a public debate on Afghanistan. There will certainly be plenty of after-washing for a long time, both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and on the basis of the information produced by various research institutes. Surely, above all, there is the idea that everything that has been done in Afghanistan over the last 20 years was wasted. About a month ago we discussed the evacuation process, and it was successful in Finnish terms. Finland and other countries acted there alone, with the strong support of the United States, but we must ask where the European Union was in this case. It was just as stupid of the European Union. Now, of course, this has been discussed at the end of the EU. High Representative Josep Borrell has proposed the creation of a rapid reaction force of 5,000 soldiers. I would now like to ask the government how: Finland takes this initiative and how is Finland active in enabling the EU to act on issues such as this?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u18	Congressman Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u19	Mr President! At first, of course, we must thank Minister Haavisto and the government for their swift and rapid, active efforts to secure people when the situation in Afghanistan started to develop at an unpredictable pace. This humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan is not over, although perhaps it has received a little less column space in the headlines. This situation is still unpredictable and truly inconsolable and will be resolved for a long time to come. It is very good to hear that the government is in the process of taking and preparing various measures to ensure that people who are still in danger or in extreme straits are brought to safety. Facilitating family reunification, very important. It is good to hear that the government is prepared to increase the quotas for refugees. I very much hope that decisions will be taken on this as quickly as possible, so that action can also be taken. And, of course, the continuation of these evacuations, the fact that human rights defenders, women's activists, are safe there, so that we bear the responsibility that is ours. It's got all the support.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u20	Congressman Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u21	Madam President! It is certainly the case that Finland was not completely in vain in Afghanistan and that all good things do not immediately disappear,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u28	Congressman Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u29	Mr President! Finnish women's organisations coordinate the meeting with Afghan women's organisations and human rights leaders in Kabul, and their message was above all that do not forget us women in Afghanistan. The second message is that Afghanistan is, however, a different country than it used to be, that there is an active civil society network. And their third message was that in their view, however, the international community was unable to involve Afghan women in the work that would have been necessary to build democracy and their rights, and in that sense I hope that this will come. In these impact assessments, too, we could carry out a shadow report — or non-governmental organisations could — in which these women's reports can be used. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u30	Congressman Kari, Mika.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u31	Madam President! It is good that Finland acted quickly and started an operation with the expertise of our professional crisis management team, which was still running for the Finns without losses and losses. This situation was certainly followed by all Members of Parliament and the whole of Finland here in Finland day by day and moment by day. We heard from the Minister that there are some problems in the scope of this law that the legislative project is now trying to correct, and Parliament's committees will be informed of them. The decision to go to Afghanistan was ultimately taken by Parliament. However, the law would apparently also have made it possible for the government to have jurisdiction in this matter. When deciding on war and peace — or, in this case, an intermediate state in which the country is falling apart and the risks of military intervention are obvious — does the government have any ideas to change?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u32	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u33	Madam President! I hope that this evaluation will honestly address the way in which such issues as equality, democracy and the different values of the West are successfully brought into such societies. Afghanistan is still more or less a feudal tribal society, and unfortunately it is also reflected in these results. I must also say that I welcome the fact that the Government and also the European Union seem at present to be exactly what the Finns of Peru have been proposing all along, i.e. all possible aid must be invested in neighbouring areas as humanitarian and crisis support, in order to avoid spontaneous migration flows to Europe. My question, however, is a little more specific. I would like to ask about these family reunifications, which the government is said to be doing all it can in the surrounding areas at the moment. How many people are being brought in, whose family members, and when will we learn more about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u34	Congressman Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u35	Madam President! On Monday, International Girls' Day was celebrated, and I received a number of very concerned contacts at that time, as I am sure many others in the Chamber did, specifically with regard to the girls in Afghanistan. We all know that it is girls, women, women activists and human rights defenders who are in the most vulnerable position in Afghanistan. They urgently need help and support. I would like to ask: what concrete plans exist to support them and to help them and protect them and to get them into school?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u36	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u37	Mr President! The key issues in the changed situation in Afghanistan relate to possible emigration and, on the other hand, to an increase in the threat of terrorism. We are very concerned about the deterioration of the human rights situation and, in particular, the position of women and girls. We must remember that the Taliban is not an internally unified movement. Some of its members genuinely want a more humane approach than in the previous Taliban regime, which ended 20 years ago. However, a more radical and conservative part of the movement is not ready to change its line. If the international community isolates the current regime in Afghanistan, there is a significant risk that the country will become a supporter of international terrorism, as also happened in the 1990s and early 2000s. The situation is difficult, and to find a viable foreign policy line requires government wisdom.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u38	Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u39	Mr President! Finns and most of the locals who helped Finns have been evacuated, but what is happening in Afghanistan has neither stopped nor stopped affecting us. Just as the representative of Estonia said, the situation in Afghanistan affects neighbouring regions and thus affects us as well. If the humanitarian crisis gets worse, we cannot prevent all those who are capable of trying to get out of there. The fact is that, although there are now many girls and women in Afghanistan who have been trained and understood, know their rights and are ready to act, much of them are in very difficult circumstances at present, even in danger of life. And we must not forget them. In addition to these humanitarian measures, we must be able to help:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u40	Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u41	Madam Speaker! This helping Afghans to Finland began by a common decision and a common line of the Parliament that they helped Finland, people in immediate danger, then evacuated in this way also by other Western countries. However, this situation has now appeared to have contributed to the expansion of this group of applicants, perhaps even a little arbitrarily, by the Secretary of State, Mr Haavisto. Now you have told the House that you intend to set up traveling consulates to facilitate family reunification and that you intend to invest in the use of remote interpreting services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u42	And between that and the Prime Minister, two minutes, and then we'll continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u43	Mr President! The situation in Afghanistan is very serious and challenges our established perceptions of how we can promote human rights and development in the world. The Taliban is in power and the leadership it appoints as a temporary government is not in line with our expectations of an Afghan government, an inclusive government. At the same time, there is cause for concern that Afghanistan is no longer visible. Today's announcement and debate in Parliament is necessary and timely. I am very pleased that there are a lot of representatives here to discuss this matter and discuss it. We must also remain faithful to our values in difficult times when the efforts to promote human rights, women's and girls' rights are experiencing setbacks. We owe it to the Afghans. We need to see clearly and in the long term, aware of the real importance of things even when the results are not what we want. Finland supports the least developed countries, and no one ever expected that development would continue to be only one way forward. The Foreign Minister, Mr Haavisto, explained the five issues on which Finland is now focusing: alleviation of the humanitarian crisis, safeguarding human rights, especially women's and girls' rights, monitoring migration, combating terrorism and continuing evacuations. With regard to the evacuation operation, we are collecting lessons so that we, as Finland and hopefully also as the European Union, will be more prepared to deal with similar situations in the future. I look forward to the results of the working group set up by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with regard to possible legislative needs. One thing, however, is certain to continue: we need a comprehensive approach to safety and development, and it will not be possible without extensive international cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u44	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u48	Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u49	Mr President! What we learn from Afghanistan, we ask. The question is certainly essential in the technical context of the follow-up to the operation, and it should be clarified in Finland. Thank you to the government for this. However, it makes us look at ourselves while Afghanistan is facing a humanitarian disaster. The World Bank has warned that the economy and the financial system and public services are already close to collapse. The UN has reported that some schools operate locally, but the majority of girls of secondary and high school age have not been allowed to return to school, as has already been said here. Women’s work and studies have been blocked in many places. The work and demonstrations of Afghan journalists have been restricted. There have been reports of public executions and shameful sentences. We may have taken away reading skills, and literacy provides the basis for consciousness, but fear of public execution
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u50	Congressman Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u51	Mr President! In retrospect, this peacekeeping operation in Afghanistan was a great disappointment: 20 years of work and financial and material investment are now threatening to be wasted. The failure on both international and national scale is great. It is clear that the mistakes made must be carefully reviewed so that they do not recur in future. Minister Haavisto said that a report was being made under the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Here the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niikko, indicated that there has already been some kind of debate on an external report. I, too, would see that it might be quite necessary at this point, so I ask you, Minister: how do you see whether, for example, the Institute of Foreign Affairs, together with a military organisation of expertise, could be able to:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u52	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u53	Madam President! Retrieving Finns from Kabul under terrible conditions was an act that must be admired, and there was also good luck. But we must also thank the help of the United States and the Western Alliance. If it wasn't for that help, anything could have happened there. It is also worth remembering that since the beginning of the Taliban regime, all normal functions of society have collapsed there, and this certainly creates the conditions in which terrorism is a prime breeding ground. Similarly, the distribution of drugs around the world certainly works fairly well when the administration, at least according to public information, finances its activities in international drug trafficking. Against this background, when you look at the matter, Finns should continue to be involved in the UN's various operations, because we have been on that side for ages. But it is worth choosing the targets carefully, because if we are going everywhere, then there is reason to expect that there may be terrible greetings from them. It's worth it, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u54	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u55	Madam President! The situation in Afghanistan, however, finally came quickly and unexpectedly for everyone. At this point, I would like to thank the Ministry for Foreign Affairs as a whole for the rapid handling of this matter on the basis of international relations. That was excellent. The Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are working well together, and this is absolutely significant. Then we'll go back to work. That is where we need to find a common consensus on how to help them in such a way that aid will certainly go to exactly what is needed. In particular, NGOs that still have a foot in the door there must be supported. Then we cannot avoid having to direct financial support there, and that too is where we must find a common vision.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u56	Let us take Mr Orpo here, followed by ministerial speeches. — Congressman Orpo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u57	Mr President! Thank you to the Government, including the President of the Republic, for this determined action. In all its misery, this how Finland worked here has been a good demonstration of our ability to function. But when you look at this more broadly, it was that when the United States decided to leave Afghanistan, practically other countries, the European countries, no longer had the capacity to act. This again gives rise to the idea that European combat forces should be made a reality. They have already been raised here, but I would like to say, in the position of the Assembly, that we believe that Europe should have a real fighting power, a power of decision-making, especially in situations such as this, where peace must be safeguarded and European interests should also be defended in neighbouring areas. I would like to hear the Government's ideas on how you will react to such initiatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u58	Now Minister Haavisto 4 minutes and then Minister Kaikkonen 2 minutes and Minister Ohio 2 minutes. - Minister Haavisto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u59	Mr President! Thank you for your good comments and questions. Perhaps first, on this question, what could the EU do in this situation? I see the strength of the EU in two areas at the moment: One is to strengthen these surrounding countries and their ability to cope with the situation, whether it be Iran, Pakistan, Tajikistan and others, to create a network around these surrounding countries, also with some reference to what Mr Purra said, that this assistance and support should now be channelled in that area. The second thing is certainly what can be done within the country. The humanitarian service of the EU, ECHO, has already planned to continue humanitarian aid, but there is this major issue, which was raised by Mr Heinonen, among other things: how to provide support within the country so that it does not support the Taliban politically and financially? The UN has made its own proposals for this to the international community. They have a network of local operators. For example, they would be prepared to pay the salaries of teachers and nurses to keep hospitals in operation, to keep schools in operation, and that is what the international community is thinking about, thinking about and looking for these routes. The Red Cross is in operation there, UN organisations are in operation, Doctors Without Borders are in operation. Well, maybe these will help us build that network. There were also many questions here about how this report is to be prepared, this impact assessment, and various ideas related to this. Mr Ronkainen had a question as to whether there could be outside factors. There will certainly be a great many studies from different actors, both internationally and nationally, and of course I welcome all of them, different aspects of this. Of course, we on our own side will find out between ministries and within the Government what has been learned from this in the context of ministries, but certainly such external studies would be good. Mr Biaudet raised the point of view of citizens, not just Europeans and Finnish citizens who have worked and helped Afghanistan, but perhaps the perspective of Afghan women: what has it meant for 20 years, what has changed, what has remained, what should have happened? This could be a very valuable point of view in this debate. I would like to welcome this idea very much. This is where Mr Saramo raised the question of whether there has been war, whether something has been hidden, what has happened here. I do not agree with this idea. After 11 September 2001, we all knew what had happened. The territory of Afghanistan had been used to prepare for a massive terrorist act, a terrorist act which could have been followed up if that development had not been addressed, and this was the beginning of the Afghanistan operation. That previous Taliban government hosted terrorist movements there, and this had to be stopped. There was a strong military component here, yes, but as I told you here, the very strong development component was also the whole time, for 20 years, in Afghanistan. So I'm thinking about the situation differently from how you think about it. For family reunification: I did not quite understand this criticism now that we are seeking people who are exercising the rights under Finnish law to family reunification, the rights that this Parliament has granted to the family in the life of their spouses and the life of their spouses and children.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u62	Secretary Kaikkonen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u63	Mr President! Perhaps my own property is mainly the attention of the representatives of Savola and Orpo and the question of the EU’s ability to act quickly — where was the EU? In this case, it was probably a question of the fact that this concept of the EU Battlegroups is so slow that it did not make it to this crisis and, on the other hand, the USA had already taken on the tasks that the EU might have taken on at this point, the tasks of protecting Kabul Airport. But undoubtedly this will not be the last crisis in this world, and there will undoubtedly be situations where a stronger role for the EU will continue to be needed. Well, how does Finland react to this Borrell initiative, to which Mr Savola referred. This is the strategic process of EU defence cooperation, the compass work, and Finland is in the process of making a position here, which means that the matter is still ongoing, but perhaps at this stage I will take the courage to put forward some ideas on this subject. The first is that this ability to act quickly needs to be improved, because this concept of battlegroup, which we currently have, has not proved to be very effective. There are a few problems: it is too slow for many situations, there is a problem with the allocation of costs, there are different reasons why these departments have never been used, and that must also indicate that there is a need for development. For the Borrell initiative, I would say at this stage that it is good to study this initiative, but we must at least avoid duplication of structures, so it might be more natural to develop this current concept — ok, if we take another one, then we must consider that there will not be duplication of structures. At least the principle must be that we do not have two different people on the shelf but rather one working.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u64	Secretary Ohio, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u65	Mr President! Thank you for your good views. As Minister Haavisto pointed out earlier in his speech, this evacuation operation from Afghanistan airport was a very unique situation, and this well demonstrated that cooperation between the Finnish authorities is working very well. This cannot be overemphasized because not only were the aforementioned ministries involved, of course, but also strongly the internal affairs administration and cooperation have been seamless. I would also like to thank all the representatives here for finding common views. I would also like to express my thanks here to the many officials, volunteers and others who took part in this package. For example, here at the end of the Finnish airport in Vantaa, in addition to the Finnish Home Affairs Administration, the Finnish Immigration Service, the police and the Border Guard, among others Finavia, Customs, THL, HUS and corona testing, STM and Vantaa Social and Crisis Emergency Services and SPR, as well as many volunteers. It's a very important job. There have been really day and night work done here and almost a hundred officials working here at the end of Finland. It is clear that, although this operation has ended — and I agree with it here — the situation is by no means over there at the end of Afghanistan. Many human rights defenders, a woman, a minority, are in a very difficult position, and there has also been a debate at EU level on how to help these people more. The question was what amounts are now involved in this family reunification. That all depends on how many family reunification applications are made. In practice, this is not a question of quotas. There is then a quota refugee system separately, and the government is committed to raising the number of quota refugees from Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u66	Congressman Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u67	Thank you, Speaker! Representative Judgments are quite right that the situation and future of Afghanistan should be considered from the Afghan perspective. From our point of view, the Taliban is an Islamic extremist, but it is hardly far from the country's extremely conservative and religious mainstream culture. The swift victory of the Taliban is due precisely to its popularity. All the occupying armies have left Afghanistan in blood and tail between their legs. They have all tried to plant in the country a system that the population feels alien to: the Soviet Union of Communism, the United States of America of liberal democracy. Both succeeded in setting up a corrupt puppet regime in the country, which collapsed as soon as the occupying man withdrew his military support. Of course, Afghanistan is not the only place where this same mistake is repeated. Western Social Model
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u68	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u69	Mr President! It is very important not to forget Afghanistan. In August we saw numerous pictures of the Afghans being hopeless, in distress, trying to get out of the country even at the risk of their lives. As part of the international community and Finland, responsibility for those in need still needs to be borne. Efforts must be made to create safe routes for people to leave the country. Facilitating family reunification, raising the refugee quota and introducing a humanitarian visa are necessary and possible tools. Representative Tavio, family reunification strengthens the integration of people here in Finland. [From the Group of the Fundamental Finns: There is no evidence of that!]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u70	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u74	Mr President! Overall, this operation in Afghanistan has been educational to both the international community and Finland. Mr Heinonen said in his earlier speech that we were not in Afghanistan to please NATO or the United States. Perhaps, however, it is a fact that Finland’s presence there pleased our transatlantic partners. But that is not the essence of this matter; the essence is that Finland actually went there to develop society, to create a space for human rights, a space for democracy, and our contribution to development was really great. However, we have heard the assessments of those in development and humanitarian missions, and they made it clear that there were great difficulties in Afghanistan precisely because these military operations, however, overshadowed and affected the whole. The lesson for us here, however, is that it is difficult to export democracy, fundamental human rights with weapons.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u75	Congressman Honkasalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u76	Mr President! As has been said here, the situation of women and girls in Afghanistan has deteriorated dramatically since August. Women's curfews and work bans are a few of them. Furthermore, Afghanistan is currently the only country in the world that bans the education of girls over 12 years of age. Mr President! Finland likes to talk about the importance of education and the role of women and girls in the global context. At the moment, however, Afghan women and women activists feel that they have been almost completely betrayed and forgotten by the international community. How does Finland intend to act as part of the international community so that the Taliban withdraws decisions restricting the rights of girls and women and allows for a credible and independent human rights assessment in the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u77	Congressman Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u78	Mr President! I will return a little bit to this evacuation issue. When Parliament decided to send this military aid, about 170 people were talked about, then eventually 414 people came from it, and now Foreign Minister Haavisto tells us that there are still some 30 delegations and dozens of consular assistants left. Who were these 414 when they ran out of them, who were they seeking? And now you are telling us here that there is still a need to help human rights defenders and women activists and minorities. Is the spike fully open in these numbers now, or what is the maximum? In fact, this is what the public is discussing and wondering about.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u79	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the Government for our good cooperation in evacuating Finns and those who helped Finland from Afghanistan. I think it is a duty not to leave a friend, and for this a big thank you to the Government and ministries and all the other officials who did this job. However, in the future, Finland should also have antennas in the world. Above all, the presence in that region, in the region of Afghanistan, and the fact that Finland receives information is extremely critical. Afghanistan should continue to serve as a platform for criminal actors and, of course, Russia and China will play an increasing role there. How do you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, see Finland's presence in Pakistan, for example? Is there any chance of opening up an embassy there? What about the rest of the presence in that area? How will Finland stay on the map of what is happening and how will Finland be able to have a positive impact on the rights of women, children, girls and so on and hope that the future development of Afghanistan will take a slightly brighter direction?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u81	Congressman Suomela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u82	Mr President! Despite numerous successful evacuation operations, there are still countless people in Afghanistan who are without protection, food and medicine, and who are at significant risk by the Taliban, even at risk of death. Just this morning we heard from Yle how people on the ground, at their worst, do not even get into tents in refugee camps, but build shelter for themselves when there is no better protection and security. In this case, it is quite clear that aid must continue to be provided. There is a need for humanitarian aid on the ground, but also for those whose lives and security are threatened by the Taliban. That is why I hope that Finland will play its part in this and that we will also be pursuing a line in the EU that we will be able to help those in need and, on the other hand, support those who are fleeing. Now, of course, the lesson to be learned from this operation is that in future attention must be paid to how to reconcile the military operation, development cooperation and wider engagement in the region,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u83	Let us take one more reply, Mr Mäkelä, and then the ministers. — Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u84	Mr President! The lesson to be learned from this failure in Afghanistan is that we must avoid these things in the future, and it will happen in such a way that we do not get involved in things that do not belong to us. After all, this Afghanistan was a sort of US backyard war and a world police operation in which it and its allies failed miserably. The U.S. made major mistakes in the operation, particularly through the number of civilian casualties caused by its drone attacks, which caused the people to turn against the regime and allowed the Taliban to win easily. This was not to be a surprise to anyone who knows these things at all. It's hypocritical to say it was a surprise. Now Finland was involved in this as a small assistant when we were pressured to do so. Originally, after the terrorist attacks, the U.S. said that you were either on our side or against us. This is how it really worked out.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u87	Next up, Minister Skinner, two minutes. — After him Minister Haavisto, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u88	Mr President! From my own administrative point of view, of course, this meeting of development ministers with Commissioners Borrell and Urplainen was very timely on Monday in Brussels. The representative of Estonia asked quite rightly what the role of the EU is. I myself, of course, stressed the need to respond to this acute humanitarian crisis and, at the same time, to develop it from a humanitarian point of view in the direction that the essential elements of health and education will also come. At the same time, I also said that this is not the sole responsibility of the EU or Europe, this is the responsibility of the international community as a whole. Minister Haavisto has been discussing with US development financers, among other things, this week, and also on his own way to Washington by Monday. In other words, we need an international community, we need international cooperation. Representative Biaudet: NGOs, their role. This came from other representatives. That's right, they're there, they've got a lot of expertise, they've got a lot to offer, but they're doing this job under a hugely challenging circumstances. We hear them all the time, and it is quite clear that this communication is very important, and that is why Finland has increased and will increase the funding that affects the work of NGOs. Representative Pelkonen: what can we do, how can we proceed from now on, humanitarian aid, girls, women. Today I had a discussion with David Beasley, Director General of the World Food Programme, where the Finnish expertise that has been asked, namely school food for girls and boys, was highlighted. Here is a good example of what we are doing in real difficult circumstances right now in the midst of a disaster together with the World Food Programme. Representative Hopsu: continuation of development cooperation, normal development cooperation. We're not going back to that now. The situation is still open.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u89	Secretary Haavisto, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u90	Mr President! Very good questions. If I start with this question by Mr Honkasalo, which showed frustration at the very fact that the situation is now so bad within Afghanistan, actually for women, for girls. Girls can't go to school. They can't go to college. They can't go anywhere else. Yesterday, there has been an ambassador meeting and a meeting with the Taliban Foreign Minister in Doha in Qatar, including the Finnish Ambassador, a large number of EU ambassadors, and these are the very things that have been raised with the Taliban. The Taliban would now ask for money in the country. They are going bankrupt, and the representatives of the European Union said that without the conditions that civil liberties will be fulfilled, women's rights will be fulfilled, girls will be able to go back to school, it is pointless to dream of any kind of support. This is the torque and the debate we are having right now, and this is an extremely important moment. At the same time, people are suffering there in the field, as described here. Representative Rantanen asked who were these 414 people who came to Finland. They have been given specific information to Parliament, but it is no secret that the number of consular cases we initially assessed increased strongly, that is to say, the number of Finnish citizens who were then in Afghanistan, and then, as the last decision, it was decided to extend the number of people who worked for the embassy, and these 83 people also came into this number. Mr Könttä asked a good question about the policy of the region, on the one hand, the role of Russia and China, countries that are now cooperating with the Taliban. In many ways, neighboring countries are a lot of guards. I met the Pakistani Foreign Minister there in connection with the UN General Assembly, and we went through the very debate as to whether Pakistan, as a neighbour, could influence this Taliban regime in any direction we are trying to do, and at least they assured us that their efforts, for example, with regard to women's and girls' rights, are in line with ours. But it would be very important for us to be able to deepen the relationship with Pakistan, and if you look at the rear-view mirror now, perhaps the closure of the Islamabad embassy at the time was a little rash, because Pakistan is a huge country, and it is of enormous importance in that region. Of course, when the government sees the possibility of opening new representations, this too will be considered at that moment. Among other things, Mr Adlercreutz asked about China's role, and it is precisely these human rights issues that are being discussed with China. Of course, our basic views on some things are very different. In an earlier round, Congressman Kari asked what kind of changes in the law are being proposed. Perhaps the most important thing for us is that the bottleneck which now appeared that Finland cannot help itself and the citizens of Finland without someone else asking us for help... I am sure there is such a place for change here, but there will then be a debate with Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u91	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u92	Mr President! Of course, thank you also, on my behalf, to the Government, to the officials and to all the volunteers who have made it possible to evacuate. First of all, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Haavisto, we are not recognising the Taliban regime, are we? And is there an equal view in the EU that the Taliban is still an extremist, a terrorist organisation that is being negotiated just because it has so many Afghans held hostage in that country? And then the second question is that we must now send a message to the Afghans from this Chamber, including here in Finland, that we are not wearing such a helmet — yes, the Taliban wants many things, and we can negotiate at EU level. We are able to negotiate, we are not leaving people in Afghanistan who we have been dealing with for 20 years. Such as I wish a message would be good to send that there is a lot
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u93	Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u94	Thank you, Mr President. When I looked at the media there comes a message from the camps that there is no hope other than Allah, but the only one who seems to work is Western countries and Christian countries. In fact, I ask you, Mr Haavisto, when you first spoke about the forum for cooperation: how, for example, does wealthy Saudi Arabia participate? In view of their culture and religion, Islam, which is the same cultural heritage, it would be very good for them to participate, and how much. [ Mr Hussein al-Taee requests a reply]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u95	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u96	Madam President! When Finland was involved in development cooperation in Afghanistan, our country implemented the principle of neighbor love. The international community, the European Union and Finland must cooperate by all means to ensure that the achievements and effects of the past 20 years are not wasted. It doesn't have to be that way. The biggest and most important fruit of the Afghan operation is certainly the training organised in the region. The civilization and skills between the ears can't be taken away by anyone. The overall assessment of this operation should cover the type of training to be carried out through development cooperation. Minister Haavisto raised the possibility of paying teachers' salaries and Minister Skinner's organisation of school food. I would like to ask you again: what remains to be done in order to:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u97	Congressman Kaleva.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, as Mr Haavisto said here, Finland has no permanent representation in Islamabad. And certainly Pakistan is the kind of country that is perhaps from Asia now the most important sort of thing in which the traveling ambassador to Finland deals with. In addition to Pakistan, this travelling ambassador manages Bhutan, Sri Lanka and Maldives. And now, if you think that Pakistan, as a 180 million nation, is being dealt with in the same basket with these three others, which are important and certainly interesting countries in themselves, then it is not the same weight at all. I myself served as a military observer in UNMOGIP in the Kashmir region, and we had good cooperation. When I was a national elder in the Finnish department, there was good cooperation with this traveling ambassador. In other words, in practice, we military observers were told the ambassador what was going on there in the Kashmir region. Finland then withdrew from these operations, which was a big mistake in itself, but perhaps not now. Now there's really no eyes at all. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u99	Congressman Harjanne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u100	Madam President! Thank the government and Foreign Minister Haavisto for this presentation. I do not share Mr Saramo's analysis as such, but he has, in my view, brought an excellent and important point of view to the debate that now, after the end of the Afghanistan operation, there is a great deal of debate on the nature of the conflict, the role of Finnish soldiers and the purpose of the mission, and that is to be welcomed. It is important that, when we participate and decide on crisis management operations, there is an open debate on the nature, effectiveness and objectives of operations in this house and outside this house. I personally believe that Finland should play an active role in participating in operations that contribute to our foreign and security policy goals, to our goals, to which a more stable and secure world belongs. The professional skills of Finns are certainly enough for demanding places, but the importance of this debate is still underlined.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u101	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u102	Mr President! The situation in Afghanistan has been more or less mixed up for several decades. Now the United States is retreating. From Finland’s point of view, the crisis has meant not only humanitarian aid but also refugee flows and participation in peacekeeping operations. The government is making every effort to accelerate immigration without considering the consequences. Recently, there has been a hard debate about filling the skills gap in the labour market through immigration, but the unfortunate fact is that, on average, low-skilled entrants do not provide a greater solution to this. It is extremely regrettable that people's conditions are miserable in Afghanistan, or anywhere in the world, but before increasing migration flows from Afghanistan, for example, has the government even carried out a thorough impact assessment, both in economic and security terms? Finally, however, this last operation was a success, thank you, and above all those Finnish peacekeepers,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u103	Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u104	Madam President! I too would like to say a warm thank you to both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, and here, of course, the Minister of the Interior has also acted. It must also be said, as a member of the parliamentary crisis management committee and thus also as a familiarity with the issues, that the operation did indeed go very well and perfectly well. Two questions I would like to raise here: On the other hand, thinking of these Afghans who have very, very close relatives, family members there. But is there enough help and support for them now, and is it still possible to get these nuclear family members out of there? Then, in connection with this crisis management operation. There we have seen many things. In the parliamentary committee on crisis management, I raised the issue of:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u105	Congressman Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u106	Mr President! The lessons learned in Afghanistan are intended to be used in the evaluation of future operations. Now that there's a Malian operation in the House, I'd like to ask you: Although the actual report has not yet been made, how are these estimates of Afghanistan already taken into account when considering the Malian operation? Have there been any new aspects, for example? Then, at least, I wonder for myself whether we should report on this operation in Mali rather than just a report, considering just how recent this case in Afghanistan is, and thinking of the whole: objectives, risks, expansion and then the difficulty of the operation — because the report would, however, have to reflect on these arguments and discuss them in detail here in the public domain.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u107	Congressman Holopainen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u111	Let us take Mr Junnila and Mr Haavisto again. — — — — Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u112	Mr President! According to a report from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs dated 4.5.2020, Finland has made the biggest investments in Afghanistan from all partner countries. This has gone from the left to even Africa, which plays a central role in the Government Programme. The OECD estimates that Finland's development aid to Afghanistan has been EUR 463 million. However, the Secretary of State himself has estimated the sum at 385 million. The Minister of Defence has calculated the cost of military crisis management to be EUR 315 million, and Ilona Kuus, a doctoral dissertation on Finnish Development Assistance in Afghanistan, has estimated the total amount to EUR 846 million. The 20-year result is therefore close to EUR 1 billion, taking into account indirect costs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs talks about impacts around basic education and health care, but I would ask the Foreign Minister to open impact assessments in other sectors as well. I would also like to ask whether the joint protocol on voluntary return with Afghanistan in 2016 is still in force and whether reciprocity will continue to apply.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u113	At this point, Minister Haavisto, three minutes. There are still representatives who have not received the first speech. I will give them first and then we also think that we will have enough time to get another speaker to speak with some representatives. - Now, Minister Haavisto, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mäkelä's question was not answered during the last round. He asked how long we were going to continue to intervene in things that were not our concern. I started thinking about the history of Finnish peace security, which is quite long. We've been to Cyprus and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u117	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u118	Madam President! There is no point in being hindsight about whether to go to Afghanistan or not, but after 20 years it is good to realize that it is pointless to imagine that we can go somewhere to change people's attitudes and ideas. You can't even do that in the HIFK-Jokers game.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u121	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u122	Mr President! Understandably, Finland has suspended its development cooperation in Afghanistan. Apparently, only necessary humanitarian aid is provided. And yes, as has been said here, after 20 years of comprehensive action, there is a real risk of going to the starting point. That danger is therefore real and also partly a nightmare for the rights of girls and women, for example. Afghanistan has been Finland’s largest development partner. Development funding for the country has apparently amounted to around EUR 30 million per year. I would also like to ask what will happen to the future of funding: whether the whole package should be completely redirected.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u123	Congressman Virta.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u124	Mr President! After a few times in this Chamber we have wondered whether all the work that has been done in Afghanistan over the last 20 years has now been wasted, it has not been wasted. It has secured childhood, youth, women's rights and, among other things, it has succeeded in halving maternal and infant mortality. But now the situation is serious. Afghanistan has already been a dangerous country for children in the past. Now it is one of the most dangerous countries in the world. And when we talk about Afghanistan and the situation in Afghanistan, we talk a lot about children, because half the population is children. We are talking about children, many of whom are now in danger of life, children whose standard of living has already been declining due to the current corona pandemic and drought. This year, 80 percent of those who left their homes for forced residence have been children and women. Some 10 million children are now dependent on humanitarian aid and one million children under the age of 5 are estimated to suffer from malnutrition as the situation continues. So now the situation with regard to the implementation of children's rights is in a huge crisis. The right of more and more children to live, to survive, to develop or to school is at stake.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u125	And at this point, Minister Kaikkonen, 2 minutes, then the speeches. — Minister Kaikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u126	Mr President! Finally, the lack of action on the part of the EU's fighting forces. Finland itself has for some time been raising this issue, that the concept needs to be developed, and it is good that we are now getting to grips with it, and I believe that in the next few months we will be moving forward. This has now become more apparent at EU level. This is Mr. Laakso. Mr Tanus raised this issue, let me say, of the situation of Kriha veterans. It can be said that these current arrangements for the psychosocial support and care of peacekeepers have largely been developed precisely on the basis of the experience of Afghanistan's operations. So that's the basis for everything else we do. This is related to the fact that the resources of the Finnish Peacekeeper Association, which also organises this rehabilitation and peer support in a rather central way, have been cut due to, I believe, a reduction in betting returns, STEA returns. This concern has been heard, and we at the Ministry of Defence have now launched rapid measures to enable additional resources for this year's Finnish Peacekeeper Union. We're on the move here. The same problem applies next year, and we are also looking for solutions for next year, because this work, what the Finnish Peacekeeper Federation is doing on this issue, is very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u127	Congressman Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u128	Thank you, Madam President. It is certainly the case that Finland did a lot of good that does not wipe out, as has been said here, and it is certainly the case that now we have to do something more, and we cannot stop doing it. We need humanitarian aid, we need family reunification, we need international pressure, Finland is involved. It is really easy to agree with almost everything Minister Haavisto has said, but I cling to one word. Instead of being found to be a fair party to the war, it is said that we had a ‘development component plus a war component’. I do not think that this is conducive to the kind of debate that we need now when we think about future operations, for example, here in Mali. I think we should make that assessment so that we actually go in front of the mirror and see, admit that we were a warring country, a party, and then make those decisions on the basis of it. And when decisions are made in the future, we will know,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u129	Congressman Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u130	Mr President! I would like to ask briefly about this intersectoral working group, mentioned by Minister Haavisto, which is being set up to assess the need to amend the law: is there an assessment or a timetable for this work? So I'd be interested to know when we'll find out more about this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u131	Congressman Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u135	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u136	Madam President! Minister Haavisto, you said that there is no cooperation with the Taliban, and in these speeches quite a few times the Taliban has now been referred to. We see the strength of the Taliban in the country. It did not take many weeks for them to regain power when Western troops withdrew from the country. We have concerns about humanitarian matters, the role of children, girls, women, schooling, health care, but is it still the case that, if this help is to be given to them, we must also have a dialogue with the Taliban and we should also have a political solution with them? But is this realism — not necessarily between Finland and the Taliban — in the discussions between the EU and the Taliban? All in all, I would like to thank you for this good debate. I hope we will continue on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u137	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u138	Madam President! In fact, I would continue directly with what Mr Savola was talking about. We should now look to the future, not just what has gone on — we must learn from that past. As far as the future is concerned, it is clear that we recognise the government that was born there, that is, this Taliban government. The Sharia Act has been fully enforced, and we will see that too. We recognise the Taliban’s previous acts of terrorism in which it has been involved and the shocking violations of human rights. We also recognize the role of women in this society. However, we are still in a situation where Afghanistan remains a UN Member State. When it is a Member State of the United Nations, it signs the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and there are certain criteria for maintaining governance from a human rights point of view. That is why I myself would be appealing to the same thing, too, that we recognise these problems, and I was delighted to hear that the European Union's ambassadors have had preliminary discussions now on how we can work together, not only in terms of financial contributions, but also in terms of content, how society is being pushed forward. And this may be
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u139	Congressman Kari, Mika.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u140	Madam President! Here, when speeches were made earlier, that all the work that has been done over the last 20 years has disappeared and disappeared into the sand of Afghanistan, this is obviously not the case, and one of the key elements of this effort, which has been worth doing, is the fight against terrorism. Whether this is called a war or an active action against terrorism is perhaps semantics. In our memory, we must return to the situation 20 years ago when a whole country was from the beginning of international terrorism, and we must also see this component in future crisis management work. One good response to this development is to promote and influence the rights of girls and women, and this government has done a good job in these matters. I would like to say briefly that last week we were in Paris discussing international cooperation on peacekeeping operations and others,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u141	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, when you mentioned that we are now working together through the UN and in other ways to contribute to the maintenance of the Afghan civilian administration, as you mentioned, for example, the payment of the salaries of teachers or doctors and so on, so now, in a way, before such final decisions are taken by the Government, it would probably be worth discussing what we are committed to. After all, we now have the EUR 30 million per year allocated there on a bilateral basis, I think 10 million and 20 million gone through the UN and other organisations, and now, if this pot is available on the table, in a way, before any commitments are made, then it should be made a proper impact assessment, because now we may be buying time or buying democracy, as it were, on this job, and this may be the same swamp that has been so far, that it might not work that way. Of course I understand this human need.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u143	And for the last time in this debate, Minister Haavisto, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u144	Mr President! Thank you for a very good debate, and here comes this emphasis on children, among other things, in the speech by Mr Virra, which is being made before the children of Afghanistan in concrete terms, and these are the means that are being sought right now through international organisations, the UN, the doctors without borders, the Red Cross and others. There, for example, internally displaced persons are in a terrible situation, as has been seen, under tents or rags, winter is coming, there is not much time to help these people, and this will be the rush on this humanitarian side. Mr Saramo, you mentioned these different components. I hope I said "military component" or "military component" and "development component". That is what I meant: both have been here: security very forcefully after the terrorist attack that triggered this whole operation in Afghanistan, but the development component strongly in it for 20 years. Mr Pelkonen, you asked when the work of this legislative reform proposal could be presented. I hope that during the spring there will be an opportunity, at least with the parliamentary committees, to have a more detailed debate on this. I totally agree with what you said about family reunification, Mr Adlercreutz. It is a certain right defined by law, and if we, as its authorities, prevent that right from being exercised, because it is not possible to submit the request, it is certainly not what Parliament has intended. I think it's meant to be that you can try to exercise that right. Mr Savola and Mr Kiljunen raised this question as to whether negotiations could be made with the Taliban. We do not recognise it, we do not support it, we do not accept the way in which it takes power in the country, but it is precisely so that there are certain things, such as humanitarian aid, which must be guaranteed access, and it must be guaranteed through the territories managed by the Taliban, and we will find ways of helping these people directly. This also has to do with the question of what kind of cooperation can be made under these circumstances. We have a lot of confidence in the UN in this situation. UN organisations have had a very wide network in Afghanistan. They say that they can continue to maintain that network if the international community needs to help people directly, these internally displaced persons and refugees from neighbouring countries around Afghanistan. There the various UN organisations are certainly such a natural channel, and I believe that there is a common basis for this in the EU. Mr Kari also raised this anti-terrorism work, which at least I myself have had the motivation for why it is important for us to be in a country such as Afghanistan, which has allowed a huge terrorist attack on the United States by a group that has planned terrorist attacks against Europe as well. It is very important that we continue to be involved in this fight against terrorism. — Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u145	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. — Debate, Minister Ohio, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! The current Government proposal proposes to amend the so-called Reception Act, the Act on the Reception of Applicants for International Protection and the identification and assistance of victims of trafficking in human beings. The Act would be amended to focus on the responsibility of the Finnish Immigration Service for preparedness planning for the organisation of reception services in the event of large-scale entry. This change would improve preparedness for large numbers of migrants and clarify the division of labour between the authorities. Currently, responsibility for the preparedness planning of the reception has been shared with more than one body. The planning is carried out by the Finnish Immigration Service, which is responsible for the practical management, planning and supervision of the reception system for asylum seekers. The existing reception system forms the basis on which the Finnish Immigration Service has drawn up plans to expand reception capacity if the situation so requires. Ely Centres are also involved in large-scale migration preparedness planning. The Ely Centres have been obliged to agree on contingency plans with the municipalities in their regions to organise reception in the event of large-scale entry. The Ely Centres also maintain regional cooperation groups between different authorities, municipalities, organisations and parishes with the aim of coordinating the preparation of preparedness plans in the region and at the same time involving these actors in the preparation work. According to Article 12 of the current Reception Act, a Government Decree could provide, if necessary, that some municipalities should set up reception or arrangement centres in the event of large-scale entry. Well, why is this current arrangement not working? First of all, the task of contingency planning is shared by several actors. It is already in line with the principle of the Emergency Act that preparedness is carried out by the person who performs the task even in normal times. In addition to the Finnish Immigration Service, the current solution is carried out by Ely Centres, whose roles overlap in some respects. Secondly, the Ely Centres have not in practice been able to produce the capacity that would have been necessary. This came to light in the autumn of 2015, when a very large number of asylum seekers arrived in Finland. When the Ely Centres are not otherwise in charge of providing reception services, they do not have practical knowledge related to reception activities. The Ely Centres have also had insufficient resources to carry out this task. Thirdly, the provisions of the Reception Act, which would oblige municipalities to set up reception and organisation centres by decree of the Government, run counter to the autonomy of the municipalities provided for in the Constitution. This provision must therefore be deleted. The proposal proposes to remedy the situation by giving the Finnish Immigration Service the overall responsibility for preparedness planning and preparedness related to the organisation of reception services for immigrants. The Finnish Immigration Service has the best expertise in organising reception services. In addition, the whole would be the responsibility of only one authority, which would allow regional and national preparedness planning to be better integrated into a single entity. In the event of large-scale entry, the overall management of the system would be better and also more cost-effective. The division of labour would also be clearer. The municipal and non-constitutional entry would be removed from the Act of Reception. Of course, it is hoped that municipalities will continue to participate in preparedness planning in cooperation with the Finnish Immigration Service. The role of the Ely centres would be to participate in regional preparedness planning managed by the Finnish Immigration Service as one of the regional authorities. At the same time as the task is centralised with the Finnish Immigration Service, it must be given sufficient resources to carry out the task. The need is a resource corresponding to three person-years. The share corresponding to one person-year may be transferred from the Ely Centres by delegation and the share corresponding to two person-years is proposed to be covered by an increase in the allocation. Adequate resources are needed to ensure quality and up-to-date contingency plans and to respond to the need for large-scale entry. Plans must also be tested through exercises, guidelines drawn up and maintained and training organised for different actors. It is also necessary to develop and strengthen the monitoring and anticipation of the situation picture of migration. The situation in the year 15 showed that an additional period of time for preparedness with better anticipation would have improved the management of the situation and possibly also saved money. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! The proposed amendment to the Reception Act is an important part of the work on preparedness and preparedness, which has been going on for years in the area of internal affairs. In the event of large-scale entry, it is important that the division of responsibilities between the various actors is clear and that our preparedness efforts are at the level required by the situation. The law proposed in this proposal is intended to enter into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u147	Congressman Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u148	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. Indeed, large-scale entry has been identified in the national risk assessment as a single national risk with a higher probability, and I consider this government proposal to amend the Reception Act to be justified. It is important that the Finnish Immigration Service should be responsible for future preparedness for organising reception in the event of large-scale entry. Mr President! I would also like to ask the Minister in this connection about other measures that the government may be preparing in view of the situation of large-scale entry. After all, Finland's preparedness legislation does not really recognise this situation of large-scale entry, and I understand that from the point of view of the legislation, Finland has relatively weak capacity to react to such a situation of large-scale entry. A number of European countries have introduced such emergency regulation, which allows the country to limit the number of migrants in the event of large-scale entry, and also international law to recognise such an opportunity where, for reasons of security and the sustainability of its own system, the state can limit the number of migrants. Where are we with the updating of preparedness legislation and the preparation of other legislation that takes account of the situation of large-scale entry?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u149	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u150	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for this presentation. Without commenting on the details, as this is on the way to the Administrative Committee, all I can say is that surely such coordination of planning and that it is in one hand will take this issue forward. Then, in 2015, Finland was rather coldly hit by this type of situation, and the fact that it has now taken account of these developments related to this system and organisation is very good. Not all of these things can be done at once, but they will come in time, and now is the time. My question now is: it is certainly estimated that three man-years will suffice. Well, maybe for this planning, but then, of course, it takes a lot of that cooperation with the community and the community anyway. Despite their coordination, the responsibility for planning is now given to Migri, yet there is still a need for planning resources in these areas, elys and municipalities. But, in fact, I would ask the question of interest when I have not read in word the statements which were the opinion of an animal on this, since a little bit of an ely is taken away from that responsibility. What was the opinion of the Ely, because Ely now has to provide resources, despite the fact that it certainly has to do this planning in the region? Has it been an ely's opinion that, yes, this one person-year can be taken from them? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u151	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u152	Mr President! For the Minister: First of all, we have to recognise and acknowledge that the SPR did save the government when it started in 2015. I think it is important that legislation also leaves the possibility that these organisations, such as the Finnish Red Cross and others, may continue to be able to request such assistance. They are a non-profit player, unlike many companies, and it is then a function that looks like it when organisations and third-sector actors generally do and try to do their best to promote common interests in the most cost-effective way possible, yet with respect to humanity and people. Today there are still open reception centres with quite a lot of people, and in a way those conditions there are quite harsh for a lot of people, many families. I know that very many people in reception centres are currently on mood medication. There are a huge variety of drugs being used to calm people’s minds down after seven years of waiting. Now that these changes are taking place, how can the well-being of these people be strengthened even more strongly? In view of future developments, of this type of risk assessment and preparation, how can we make sure that these people are active right from the start? It is understood that they may come from situations of war. They have traumatic problems in the background, and they may also have children. There may be some people in the same centers who, for example, have not always been on the straight path. How could this dynamic and this whole be managed in such a way that those people there enjoy and are socially viable if they receive a residence permit?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u153	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u154	Madam President! This bill is most welcome and the result of the fact that we actually faced a situation we were not prepared for in 2015. At that time, the municipalities and the Ely Centres received a very large amount of work. Some survived quite moderately, but then we also saw these mild phenomena in which reception centres were established all over Finland, and everyone’s goals were not so honorable in terms of helping, but were mainly behind the benefits. So it is very good that this presentation has now been prepared and this activity is concentrated in one place, it is planned and these help paths, if such a moment comes to us that there will be a lot of people again, would be clear and there would also be a provision for who can help, so that not just anyone can go and rent a hotel and say that now I suddenly became an expert on immigration. Thank you for this proposal, and I hope that the Administrative Committee will be able to deal with wisdom and understanding in the management of the whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u155	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u156	Madam President! I listened carefully to the Minister's good presentation of this and also to Mr Risiko's speech. Mr Risiko has long experience in these matters, and now in my own speech I go even further back to the beginning of the 1990s, when I worked as a county doctor in the county government. When our eastern neighbour was in a state of disintegration and it was estimated in Finland that it was precisely from that direction that uncontrolled immigration could reach a maximum of half a million people, I had to take part in contingency planning as an official of the county government, which genuinely and truly planned how to prepare for such a situation: where people's accommodations, how to organise meals, training and all other things. Well, this is the past, and fortunately that did not happen, but my conclusion is that there can be many opinions about the role of provincial governments in their time, but as multidisciplinary authorities they were precisely the same that police, social and health services and rescue services operate within the same agency. In fact, we now have a need for wide-ranging cooperation between the municipalities and the central authorities, even at a lower level than the central government, i.e. at regional level. In that sense, although it is a long time since those events have taken place, all this experience is valuable, and it is worth taking advantage of it, because we are still in a world where such challenges may very quickly and unexpectedly be realised.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u157	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u158	Mr President! After all, we are constantly here in Parliament discussing immigration and also the asylum process, and this has even become this kind of culture of stigmatisation, that people who seek asylum, genuine protection, would not deserve it, but let's go speculate, speculate on what those motives really are behind there. — And, admittedly, for those motives, you can ask many times whether it is a genuine asylum process or not. However, it is essential that Finland is a country that has signed the Geneva Convention on Refugees, acting on the basis of the guidelines for criteria that start from the fact that a person who does not receive protection in his own country, who is subject to human rights violations and needs protection, so that we help and at the same time recognise that these people are in fact the most vulnerable group of those immigrants. The most vulnerable group. And that is why we need to create these capacities for us to be able to comply with those international agreements. We have also been in a situation where we have been fleeing Finland, where asylum is sought. I will not go into history as far as I have to go, but in any case we have also been helped by our own hands, and this is the relationship we are in internationally. This bill, which we now have before us, is aimed at facilitating, centralising and managing this interaction between the authorities. This is all positive, thanks to the government for this presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u159	Congressman Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u160	Mr President! I will continue with the development of existing legislation, not only on large-scale immigration, but also, in fact, on a broader scale, with regard to the asylum process. After all, Finland has not taken advantage of all the opportunities available under EU law in the asylum procedure. Finland has not implemented the border procedure allowed by the Asylum Directive in which asylum seekers can be held for four weeks in or near the border zone without allowing them to enter the country. The border procedure can resolve applications by means of an accelerated asylum procedure and unjustifiably turn back those seeking to enter the country. The border procedure also offers opportunities for such detention. I would also like to ask the Minister about this. The implementation of the border procedure into Finnish legislation had been identified in a programme of measures drawn up by the bourgeois government in recent metres, which included a number of measures to combat crime of foreign origin, for example, and in that programme this border procedure had been raised. Has this procedure been considered by the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u161	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u162	Mr President! Let me just briefly ask you this: when this coordination of planning now comes to the Finnish Immigration Service, will the content also change? Certainly when there are different people and different organisations, of course the way to make a plan, orientation may change a little, but will this law or regulation have any effect in the future on the fact that a particular priority in what is planned will change? Is this law merely an organisational law, or is there also a substantive change?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u163	There were questions in the previous speeches. Secretary Ohio, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u164	Mr President! Good comments in the referral debate, thank you for them. Mr Vestman has two questions: The reform of the Act on Preparedness has been launched at the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for this. In fact, even before the corona pandemic, this work has been done and is being carried on. Of course, it is a law that needs a long, long time, two parliaments, but a very important whole, and it must be seen that there are clear responsibilities and powers for the internal affairs authorities. It's good to look at this whole thing together. The question of border procedure: This border procedure is part of the EU's asylum and immigration package, which the Commission issued a year ago and which the Finnish Government has dealt with and which has also been jointly discussed here in the committees. As part of this package, the border procedure is and Finland has supported it. It would bring flexibility to the initial stages, know what processes people are being taken into, and probably this would improve the overall picture so that we know who needs what kind of help, support at what point. This may be linked to Mr Al-Tae's question when you mentioned that some asylum seekers spend years in reception centres. This sums up the problem that we have in our system, that at the beginning it should be possible to strengthen the quality of the process so that applications are handled properly, in proper consultation with the person, with all due consideration, and that man would not be subjected to re-processes and corrective measures in these processes. So the task would be to speed up these processes by ensuring quality, and this is a very central aspect of the Government Programme. The question was also raised as to how to cooperate with the body and with other authorities in general from now on. There is a good common view with the Elys that we can proceed in this way as a whole and, of course, every authority has an important place in the fact that the earlier we recognise such situations, the better we can coordinate in these situations. In this context, the situation picture is constantly being developed not only between Finnish authorities — information exchange, coordination of the situation picture — but also in cooperation with European actors: Frontex, EASO and many other European authorities. In reception centres, people really spend too long hours, and it is not only humanly but also economically unsustainable. What we can do is, of course, that people are able to integrate as much as possible into society at that stage: language training, mental health services, opportunities for work in general, for example. All of this is already possible for us to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u165	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. Minister Ohio, are you prepared to introduce me? — The Minister is not prepared to present this, but the debate begins. — Mr Al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u166	Thank you, Mr President. This is one law in a series of laws relating to the prevention of money laundering terrorism. Of course, many of these have come through the Committee on Economic Affairs, and now that these have been laid down at the level of the directive and also at the national level, so here is this sort of entity, where this is sort of the latest point. Well, no one really opposes such laws, but we feel strongly that we want to tackle money laundering and make it impossible, to fill all the gaps that crime is currently working on. But also in the expert hearings there has been the concern that the better we make money laundering impossible, the more it will require the handicraft of banking services. This, on the other hand, has led to the fact that the banking services — and I hope that Mr Laukkanen will also take a stand on this matter — are no longer beneficial to organisations, to various ball clubs, to development organisations, to various clubs or to religious associations. Many, many, many in Finland are unable to open and receive banking services because of these blackmails. Another problem that has now arisen is that today, when older people are asked for different identification methods, digital ones in order to maintain and improve security, this has contributed to the digital exclusion of the elderly here in an ageing Finland. In my opinion, when such legislation is laid down and goes through Parliament, we must at the same time ensure that society continues to operate. After all, criminals find different ways of working all the time and may be one step ahead of society from time to time, but we protect society from criminals and we also need to be able to make the normal functioning of society possible, and in this respect I would like to see the common sense or the sense of the city to adopt these very important laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u167	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u168	Madam President! It was a real shame that the Minister had left, because it would have been a good thing for him to hear this now. This money laundering directive, the result of which is also the Finnish legislation and now the present presentation, has proved to be inadequate in such a way that guidance is not quite accurate. For example, what Mr Al-Taeek has already pointed out here is his ‘knows his client’ obligation,which has since been addressed to monetary institutions. Given the unclear definition of what ‘knowshiscustomer’is intended to mean in substance,it has led from a bank to a well-managed interpretation of what it means. And this, on the other hand, has led to banks taking on the duties of the police, the prosecutor and the judge, as it were. This has not been the purpose of this directive, but the fact that, if there is any doubt, banks would have an obligation to notify this matter to this group, which will subsequently clarify possible developments,to this money laundering supervisory body. In practice, this has led to the bank not approaching the police or this supervisory body, but closing the customer’s account and taking a unilateral decision — informing the customer that all your money has been frozen. The second thing that has resulted from this is that the accounts of associations are no longer being opened. This is an acute problem. These notifications are received weekly, where the starting association declares that they cannot open an account at the bank. The situation is absolutely impossible for civil society to operate. How the hell can an association work if it doesn't have a bank account? Then, even these large actors in development cooperation, where banks apply this so-called EU risk country regulation, believe that if they do not now intervene in this development cooperation organisation, then they will be given responsibility for this money, which will be directed to developing countries in one way or another. This was not the intention of this directive either. It would have been wonderful if the Minister had been present and had received this message for himself. This is something that needs to be addressed. This is also a problem at EU level. I would also like to see the financial sector:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u169	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u170	Mr President! It was a real shame that the Minister was not prepared to present this bill. For this reason, I am aware of the problem of money laundering — not the problem of money laundering, but the legislation that relates to it. I was a minister when this legislation relating to the directive was also adopted in Finland, and that is the most complex, frankly. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the two previous speeches. Mr Al-Taee and Mr Laukkanen, both made excellent contributions to the fact that when we talk about preventing money laundering, the aim is not, after all, to overcomplicate the lives of citizens. I understand very well that banks are doing their job, and the law requires it as well as the directive and its Finnish implementation, but now it seems that some points have gone very far. These examples, which have now come up during the speech by Mr Laukkanen, are indeed full, real lives, and they make it difficult for organisations, for example. That is why I hope that this legislation will now also be taken very seriously. The intention is good, we do not deny it, but if it complicates life very much and fails to do things, such as organizational activity, it is bad. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u171	Thank you. — Mr Laukkanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Since a little bit of the thought was left out there when the time ran out, I'm going to finish it. Someone contacted me after the bank closed their accounts, for three months in their case. The wages and rents were not paid. All the money was in the accounts there. A police investigation was launched, which was carried out by the bank, and the police reported that there was no false activity in the association’s activities. Then, on top of everything, the bank announced that, even though they have acted as they have done, this significant harm and nothing wrong has been found, they still want to end their cooperation with this organization, and it was announced that the accounts will be closed after a month for good. This is an activity that really inspires a lot of debate about the carefulness of our legislation, and, as Mr Risikko has said here, the wish is that this issue and these issues should now be raised in the Committee on Administrative Affairs. It's too bad there aren't any in this show. This earlier law was enacted in 2016, and I was on the Committee on Legal Affairs to deal with it. I could not imagine that, as a result of this, the bank would take on the role it has played. When I had raised this issue to a public debate, I received a call from the manager of a large bank thanking me for raising this issue and saying that the situation on the other side of the counter between their office workers and their customers is sometimes very bad to follow when they have acted as they have done and have understood that they are still doing things according to the law, yet the situation is really unclear. He also wanted to see clarity in this legislation. So, on both sides of the table, there is now a wish that this law should be clarified and that the guidelines for the Bank's activities should be clear. In addition, I called the Police Board on this matter and they were really sorry that the bank was doing what it was doing because it also interferes with their work. They will then have no access to these real money launderers when the bank closes the accounts and these evildoers flee the scene. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u173	Thank you. — Mr Al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u174	Mr President! I would like to pick up where colleagues actually left off, and I would like to continue through these examples. In other words, we are still dealing with the anti-money laundering law which we are dealing with here. But we are now dealing with the impact that it has now had in this series, in concrete terms, on society and, in particular, on civil society. Now I will pick up where Mr Laukkanen actually left off. When people, clubs, ball clubs and various functional associations, for example, collect money and finance their activities, they are no longer able to pay rents through the account that is the club’s account, then one of those persons starts paying those bills through its own personal account, and that money is passed through it. If this person is a student, then student benefits have been suspended because of this, and Kela is then responsible for where this money came from. And so the banks have also tried to intervene so that these personal accounts are not handled by these other things, the association's business, but these people have been in a difficult place because the premises go out of hand if there is no money flow. The student organisations also contacted me recently on this subject, and I also know from the university of applied sciences at the moment that if there are persons on the board who have a foreign-language name, it has also led to direct rejection. So if the board has only names in full Finnish, then it has usually gone through and the account has been opened. So, in the face of the law, these people are not equal, and this is another issue that needs to be addressed. However, when this type of law, otherwise good law, is enacted, it must be considered that civil society is still capable of acting and student organisations still feel that Finland is the promised country of the organisations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u175	Thank you. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u176	Mr President! Indeed, a representative. Laukkanen brought good feedback from the airport on what has come. I can tell myself that these sometimes feel that why this is always left to the torso and not to the finish — especially what situations could arise from these cases. It has now become apparent, for example, that cash can no longer be put into someone's account if you do not have access to the account, so to speak, which then causes... It is not a daily problem, but it was a personal problem that my wife had paid our wages and that there had been a bit of a problem at the pay point. The problem was that it was Friday day and the driver had an accounting day. But we didn't get the money directly into that account even though we went to the bank's counter, but luckily, there was a special offer at the bank to put it in the account quickly, which it then charged separately. Surely we are not going to create such a system to make human activities extremely difficult, because the situation is that it is still able to verify who put the money and one can ask what it is for. It has somehow remained that we have been thinking about it from one side all the time and we have not thought about the difficulties that come for the normal person or the association or the like, and we have not thought about how to resolve these issues in those points. It is, however, extremely important that we make a great deal of detail here too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u177	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. — Preface, Mr Andersson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u178	Mr President! I will bring before Parliament the Government's proposal to amend the Student and Student Care Act. One of the central objectives of our government is to guarantee quality student and student care services at all levels of education. According to the Government Programme, student and student care services will be strengthened in order to give children and young people the support they need. In addition, the Government Programme outlines binding dimensions for secondary education services, and the Board of Directors then adopted a decision that the personnel size should also be introduced into pre- and basic education. This proposal proposes to amend the Student and Student Care Act to provide for a binding dimension for psychologists and curators. The aim of the bill is that in the future there should be no more than 670 students per curator and no more than 780 students per psychologist. The size of the staff would be equal both in basic education and in secondary education. Student and student care will be significantly strengthened by the current contributions. It is essential that children and young people receive support quickly and flexibly when the need for support arises. This is also a prerequisite for us to succeed in ensuring that as many young people as possible continue on the path to completing secondary school. The measures now being proposed are therefore also a key element of the implementation of the extension of compulsory education. Binding human resources in curator and psychological services can ensure more equal access to and quality of the services required by pupils and students in schools and educational institutions across Finland at both basic and secondary levels. In addition to human resources, the quality of the study services can be improved by specifying the criteria for the curator’s eligibility. The currently valid condition of the curator’s eligibility is partly unclear and open to interpretation. This proposal proposes that a person with a social worker or socio-economic training should continue to be a curator and that a person with an appropriate degree in social, educational or behavioural sciences meet the eligibility criteria. In addition to education, studies must be completed at a university of 60 credits, consisting of university studies in social work or studies belonging to a socio-economic degree. This proposed qualification requirement for a curator is flexible and allows for the recruitment of curators with different training backgrounds, but the clarification of the eligibility criterion will reduce the problems of interpretation of the law and will hopefully also facilitate the recruitment of curators. At the same time, a flexible definition of eligibility would give the employer a wide range of opportunities to take advantage of the skills generated by higher education degrees with a slightly different focus, in line with the needs of educational institutions. At the same time, however, the eligibility requirement would ensure that the curator has sufficient skills in social work methods, social care legislation and the operating environment. The improvements in student and student care now being made will increase the equality between students and students, as psychologist and curator services are more uniformly available across the country. Equal and timely services can contribute more equally to the learning of children and young people, mental and physical health, social well-being and a sense of belonging to their own growth community. Timely education services also help prevent problems from getting worse and can thus save public authorities resources elsewhere. Preventive support for community education and the adequacy and timeliness of student and student care services reduce the pressure to transfer students to special education and the need for psychiatric services and child welfare. Mr President! Recently, there has been an appropriate debate in public on the ability of teachers and other teaching staff to cope and on working conditions. Adequate funding and staffing are essential for the quality of education and also for teachers to be able to focus more fully on their own work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u179	Thank you. — Mr Kivisaari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u180	Mr President! In my former life, in my work as principal of primary school, I have seen many times how a student finds help through a curator or psychologist. Almost as many times I have been agonizing over the insufficient availability of curator and psychological services. The nausea of young schoolchildren and students is an unfortunate reality. Prevention is, of course, the right key word, but it is particularly important to ask why, despite many, many different measures, nausea occurs. This is because when you’re already burning, there’s no point in guiding you about the dangers of playing matches. We need to get our resources in order and we need help right away. That is what this proposal is trying to do. Today, some curators and psychologists are threatening to drown below their workload. There are far too many students in places for one operator. This causes not everyone to be treated with sufficient seriousness. The urgency of providing community and individual assistance and cooperation between the various actors makes it difficult to do so. So the situation at the moment is that we are often unfortunately late in going from one situation to another. The Government's proposal proposes to provide for humaneization of psychological and curator services. A sufficient number of psychologists and curators will enable faster response to problems, more targeted assistance and more equal resources across Finland. It's a very simple logic. Of course, it must also be understood that this proposal is loading a new minimum limit, that is, the pain limit at which action is to be taken. I hope that this will not be the maximum, because there is already a situation in some schools and educational institutions where these scales are pale as well. President! Of course, curators and psychologists are an important part of the school community and its key players. Student and student care is absolutely essential as the creator of equal opportunities and the involvement of everyone. However, the human dimension alone is not enough to ensure the availability of psychological and curatorial services. The skilled labour force must also be adequately trained. Currently, poorly resourced work, with its constant urgency, does not increase the attractiveness of the sector. The lack of resources makes the work chaotic and in a situation where professionally we are constantly on the way back. President! I also consider the qualification requirements for the proposal to be correct and essential. By strengthening the human resources of education and training, students can be better equipped to move from basic education to secondary education and to complete secondary education in general. And in the end it is not always about learning, but about fostering self-esteem, self-confidence, that is, that everyone can feel good and sufficient. It takes an adult, a professional who has the time and the will to listen. In this light, the performance is very important and also glorious.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u181	Thank you. — Mr Petelius, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u182	Mr President, värderade talman! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. Every child deserves to be well. Every child deserves support if schooling or studying is difficult. Now, by setting clear dimensions for psychological and curator services, it is the equal opportunity of each child and young person to learn. According to a study by THL and the National Board of Education, the number of pupils working in basic education and under the responsibility of psychologists varies between as many as 700 and even 2000 — it is a huge number. Well, now the government proposal adds, just as the Minister has said here, the number of these curators and school psychologists in schools, when, I repeat, in primary and secondary education there would be at least one psychologist per 780 children and per young person and at least one curator per 670 children. This change is significant. When less students are under the responsibility of student care workers, their chances of genuinely meeting every child in need will be improved. Children are not a homogenous group, but each one is an individual, and this makes it possible, as it were, to meet the right one, which is important. In addition, they thus have more time for preventive and collaborative work to promote the well-being of the entire school community and to prevent bullying, for example. Mr President! In short, this bill is one part of the whole process by which we bridge the welfare gap caused by the corona era, thus ensuring that every child and young person can feel better, because only a well-being child can learn. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u183	Thank you, och sedan ledamot Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u184	Ärade talman, Mr President! Ett stort tag till ministern för presentationen av lagförslaget. Psykisk ohlsa har debatterats flera gånger rai i salen under hösten, senast förra veckan i några repriser. Det är helt rätt, för det är enorm utmaning, som vi vet allihopa, som vi har aven för barn och unga, men också det är vuxna — det gäller alla åldrar. Men speciellt hos barn och unga har senmheten och ångesten vuxit mycket, Vilket också kommer fram i den oxälsoundersökningen, och det är därför viktigt att den är frågan nu lyfts fram med jämna mellanrum. Barns och ungas behov av psycholog- och curatorstjänster har ökat stadigt här i vårt land under 2010-talet, och på något sätt har det också blivit mer accepteraatt diskutera och prata om mental ohalsa, vilket är bra. Även om äänmheten ökar hela tiden, Oberoende av ålder, är vi ju standigt online med den rauh och får ju en shorts social contact. Men ändå det där att öga mot öga, det fattas, och det är en ny slags utmaning för oss.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u185	Mr President! The concepts include an important government proposal to promote the well-being of children and young people and to ensure that everyone has access to the necessary student care services. As a result of the time of Korona, children and adolescents have become increasingly sick, lonely and depressed. Many municipalities are in a situation where services are overloaded and assistance is not available quickly enough. The well-being of children and young people is a prerequisite for all learning. Binding measurements for curators and psychologists ensure that student care resources do not end up as balancing targets for the municipalities' finances. Binding dimensions are intended to guarantee more curators and psychologists throughout Finland. According to the proposal, the dimensioning of basic education would be at least one curator per 670 pupils and one psychologist per 780 pupils and, as has already been pointed out here, there would be a similar dimension in secondary education. This is indeed a minimum level, and hopefully nowhere will the level reached be set down. According to a study conducted by THL and the Finnish National Board of Education in 2018, there are large differences in the number of pupils and offices of curators and psychologists working in basic education. For example, the number of pupils responsible for full-time workers varied between 700 and 2000. This measure will allow the curators to have more time for preventive and collaborative work to promote the well-being of the entire school community and to prevent bullying and school violence, which this government has also wanted to tackle. The work of school psychologists is needed, in particular, to implement individual low-threshold support in schools and to support the implementation of three-tier support for each pupil. An important part of the work of a school psychologist is the mapping of support needs, the testing associated with it, and the coordination and cooperation with a class teacher, subject teacher or special class teacher in order to find the right support measures. For the Greens, adequate access to student care services has been a particularly important part of extending compulsory education. A mechanical decision to expand is not enough, but sufficient support for well-being and schooling will ensure that no young person falls off the sled. In addition, there is a need for sufficient guidance to find a suitable school and study path for everyone. It is important to ensure that, when welfare areas arise, student care staff, even though they are on the payroll of different actors, can still work at the same address at the school closely as a single team and as part of the school's working community. It is important to monitor and review the smooth functioning of this cooperation in the new structure. I myself have been a special teacher in the student care group and I have seen what is there. There's a lot of work to do, and the job photos seem to be right. In addition, this proposal defines the capacity of the curator. It is therefore proposed to clarify the eligibility criterion rule, and this is also to be welcomed. Hopefully this will support the recruitment of professional curators. However, mere dimensioning and funding do not automatically change into persons. At least in the capital region, there are many open positions and positions of school psychologists that are unaccounted for. Unfortunately, the same situation also exists in the children's psychiatry department, which lacks doctors. In many municipalities, efforts have been made to ease the workload of psychologists by recruiting more curators, child psychiatrist nurses or other staff to support school. Of course, now that the scale is almost better and even adequate, the work load will be eased, and perhaps it will be possible to support the industry a little better, and psychologists will not switch to other tasks with the same training that can be done but with a lighter workload. However, it is also important to look at the adequacy of training levels in relation to the need for services.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u186	Thank you. — Mr Kinnunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u187	Mr President! We have recently spoken here in this Chamber about the mental health problems of young people, the deterioration of learning outcomes, the need for teachers, loneliness, the need for families. The interest rate has weakened the situation of many. Help is needed. A well-being child learns best. Problems at home and in schools cannot be solved by one way. A number of measures are needed, both at school and at home. Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for presenting an important point. The purpose of this government proposal is to set out the dimension of having at least one curator per 670 pupils in primary and secondary schools and one psychologist per 780 pupils. At the same time, the criteria for the curator’s eligibility will be revised more precisely. This will help recruit skilled personnel. It is important to note that those already working for the curator can continue their current work. Before the Parliament, I served 23 years as rector of the folk high school. As colleagues, I have had many fine curators who have had different educational backgrounds. Each one has done his work as his own person. In addition to professionalism, we need the skills of a young person’s encounter, the skills of listening, the skills of walking alongside him. Even a good curator needs work guidance and continuous learning to support his work, continuous updating of his skills. The aim of the reform is to ensure better access to student care services. The total cost of the reform is just under EUR 30 million per year. It's a lot of money. If this additional effort strengthens preventive work, it will eventually bring savings to more expensive corrective measures. When a student or student needs help, it is good to get it soon. The need for assistance is diverse: physical, psychological, social welfare-related, bullying and support for learning. The provision of assistance will enable sufficient staff to be available. On the other hand, the reform is equally aimed at preventing problems. It's the best help. More extensive support staff can also help to improve the ability of more and more people to move forward on the school path without falling off the sled. The importance of this issue is emphasised now that compulsory education has been extended. This extended compulsory education, i.e. basic constitutional education, is also carried out in Finland by folk high schools through their long lines of education. There, too, there is a need for psychological services and curator services. In this connection, I would like to ask the Minister whether these compulsory education students in folk high schools are taken into account in the dimensions of the municipalities. Mr President! Of course, mere dimensioning does not solve all the problems. Care must be taken to ensure that sufficient skilled labour is available. For example: At the University of Oulu, a psychology training programme was started this autumn. This will help the situation within a few years, but not immediately. Psychological measurements will take effect after the transition period from the beginning of August 2023. You have to be sure that you have enough psychologists. It must be ensured that there are also enough graduates with the curator’s qualifications. The whole is not simple or solved by clicking on fingers. The situation in schools and educational institutions is very different, the field is diverse, the needs are diverse. As Minister Andersson said: when the school's multidisciplinary cooperation works, teachers are allowed to focus on teaching. A well-being child learns in a well-being and safe school community.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u188	Thank you. — There is now time for one speech, and then the Minister, a few minutes. — Representative Eloranta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u189	Mr President! It is very important and, of course, very positive that student and student care should be strengthened by regulating binding dimensions and qualifications for psychological and curator services. This need has been further highlighted by the interest-bearing pandemic. The government of Prime Minister Marin has made a number of educational policy improvements from early childhood education to secondary education, which supports children and young people on the rocks of life, and which provide early childhood education and school teachers and other staff with opportunities to improve their children's well-being. This proposal will further strengthen the chosen line. An example could be the three-step support for early childhood education currently under discussion in the Committee on Education. This is a new structural measure to strengthen the quality and equality of early childhood education. Three-step support for early childhood education has been long awaited, and if so, early intervention in children’s problems. The extension of compulsory education also involves a number of measures to support the equal and equal treatment of children in the learning process. Among other things, a student guidance development programme has been launched for basic education, vocational education and upper secondary school education, as well as a Justice to learn programme for improving the quality and equality of early childhood education and basic education. The objective of the Justice Skills Development Programme is to ensure the quality of vocational education and training. The compulsory education law also provides for the principle of guiding and supporting a compulsory young person in the joint stages of the educational path. Regulatory and supervisory responsibilities are defined in legislation so that one party’s control and control responsibilities are always terminated when the other party’s control and control responsibilities begin. This will ensure that a young person who is subject to education does not fall outside the support network at any time. A Government action programme to prevent bullying, violence and harassment has also been published in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Mr President! Further regulation of psychological and curator services in line with this proposal aims to ensure that preventive support for education and early assistance and support for individual study care are available to all students in accordance with their individual needs. Equally accessible and equal quality education services promote the learning of children and young people, mental and physical health, social well-being and prevent the emergence of problems, e.g. through measures to prevent bullying at school. By strengthening the human resources of the study services, the student can also be better offered the ability to move from basic education to secondary education and to complete secondary education, to obtain either a upper secondary school or a vocational qualification. According to the proposal, education under the Basic Education Act covered by the Student and Student Care Act should have at least one curator per 670 pupils and one psychologist per 780 pupils, and secondary education should have these same dimensions. Mr President! The interest period has highlighted much of the nausea of children and young people, as well as the lack of support services and the lack of resources. Last week there was a lot of discussion about that latest school health survey, where the readings had gone up in a nasty way during the corona period. Children and adolescents are worse off than they were before. In addition to students and students, well-functioning education services also support families and teachers' teaching and educational work. Adequately resourced study care can also offset the impact of different socio-economic backgrounds of pupils and students on schooling and studying. The goal of binding study care staffing is also to focus more on community-based education and thus promote the well-being, safety and communality of the entire school and educational community. It is therefore excellent that the proposal before us also helps to solve the problems of the interest rate. It is a pleasure to be able to begin the expert consultations on this government's proposal in the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u190	Thank you. — Minister Andersson, a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u191	Mr President! I would like to thank all the Members for their contributions. In my opinion, the importance of these student and student care services also emerged well from the point of view of learning. As several representatives here said, only a well-being child learns. It is also quite clear that there is a particular need to strengthen these services now that the interest rate has been increased, as we know and have also been told by these latest school health surveys that there has been a clear increase in nausea among young people. Mr Kinnunen also asked the Minister a very specific question, that is, whether those studying on the lines of compulsory education in folk high schools will be taken into account in these dimensions. The answer to that question is ‘yes’,to be taken into account. In other words, when this compulsory education reform also extended the student and student care services to these students, it is logical that they should also be included in these dimensions. My warm thanks to all the representatives for this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u192	Thank you. — The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u193	We will now resume the debate on item 6 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — Mr Honkasalo absent, Mr Laukkanen absent, including Mr Risikko absent, Mr Wallinheimo absent.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u194	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. — Open the debate. Presentation, Minister Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u195	Mr President! Each child who is a customer of child welfare must have his or her own social worker appointed by the Child Welfare Act as the social worker responsible for the child's affairs. A social worker is in a service relationship with the municipality and is always in charge of his duties. The social worker responsible for the child’s affairs has a special responsibility in the realisation of the child’s interests and rights. This is a demanding task of specialist experts, which includes demanding assessment of the best interests of the child and decision-making based on this and monitoring the implementation of the rights of the child. An important part of the work is co-operation with guardians, other child’s local network and various partners, such as other actors in social welfare and health care. The social worker is responsible for providing the child with the support and services he needs. In the interests of the child and the effective exercise of his rights, it is essential that the social worker has sufficient time to get to know the child and his or her situation. If one social worker has too many customers on his responsibility, there is a high risk that the interests and rights of an individual child will not be fully realised. Mr President! At present, in many municipalities, there is a risk that the best interests and rights of the child will be realised when one of the social workers responsible for the child’s affairs has too many customers under their responsibility. For example, the right of children in foster care to good care and care is jeopardised in the current situation when social workers are not able to enforce the legality of foster care practices. Society has a special responsibility to protect these vulnerable children. Legal overseers have also repeatedly drawn attention to this issue. The number of customers of the social worker responsible for the child’s affairs is currently not limited by law. In the quality recommendation for child welfare, it is recommended that 25 children per social worker responsible for the child's affairs. However, guidance based on recommendations has not brought about sufficient change in the situation of children. No longer can we expect, but urgent action is needed to remedy the current situation in order to improve the interests and rights of children. Mr President! In line with Prime Minister Marin’s Government’s programme, the Government proposes that the Child Welfare Act should be subject to a progressive tightening of the social protection staffing of child welfare. Accordingly, in 2022 and 2023, a social worker responsible for matters relating to children should have no more than 35 children under his or her responsibility and, from 2024 onwards, no more than 30 children. This is a particularly big change at the practical level to improve social work and ensure that children's rights are realised. I am glad that the Government programme has already laid down this, and today the proposal is being submitted. The aim of this proposal is therefore to strengthen the implementation of the rights of the child in the protection of children and to safeguard the objectives of child and family protection. In order to achieve these objectives, the dimensioning of the social worker reduces the workload and improves the ability of the social worker to familiarise himself with the matters of the child and enables social work to be carried out in the best possible way in the best interests of the child. The aim is also to improve regional equality in social work. The transfer of responsibility for organising social and health care services makes it possible for welfare areas, as larger actors, to be better placed to organise social work in child welfare and to make internal arrangements to secure the dimensioning. The cost of the measurement, EUR 4.8 million from next year and EUR 21.7 million from 2024 onwards, will be credited as state transfers to municipalities and future welfare areas. Mr President! The reform will be carried out in a challenging personnel situation. An estimated 359 new employees will be needed when the tighter dimensioning comes into effect. It is clear that training increases are needed to implement the dimensioning. According to the proposal, training places for social work will be increased by 200 places between 2022 and 2027. The number of additional training places has taken into account the educational increases made in the past between 2020 and 2022 and the actual potential of universities to increase the number of start-up places. It is also worth noting that increasing the number of educational places is not the only way to respond to the shortage of staff; it is precisely to get trained social workers to choose child protection and to remain workers in child protection. It is therefore essential to improve the attractiveness and attractiveness of work by reducing the burden of work, and limiting the number of customers has positive effects on access to jobs, the attractiveness of work and decent working conditions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u196	Thank you. — Mr Viljanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u197	Mr President! Child welfare professionals are doing a very important and demanding job with vulnerable children, young people and families. However, the amount of work, the complexity and the resources available do not meet. Child welfare has been in crisis for a long time. Situations in different municipalities vary significantly and thus also place children and workers at a disadvantage. Today, a child welfare social worker can have no matter how many children, as the number of customers has not been regulated. In such a situation, a child suffers especially when the worker does not have time to face and get acquainted with his or her affairs, but also when the worker is busy and has no time to do his or her work properly. There is a risk that the child’s individual situation and the child’s interests and rights will drown under the workload. In the Government’s proposal now under discussion, the human resources of child protection would be recorded in the law in accordance with the Government Programme’s guidelines. The number of clients in child welfare would be gradually reduced to a maximum of 35 children next year for one social worker in child welfare and 30 children in 2024. This dimensional adjustment is an important change to support professionals in coping with their work without overloading, and above all the aim is to ensure that the rights of the child are better achieved than the current situation. Social workers in child welfare are heavily guarded at work that requires extensive knowledge and application of legislation, management of working methods and a strong understanding of social phenomena. Work is a continuous solution to problems that are challenged by shortcomings in the service system, and finding appropriate services for children and families is very challenging. In their work, a social worker in child welfare has to make big and restrictive decisions about people’s rights and life. The excessive workload associated with demanding work puts a strain on and causes fatigue as well as other phenomena that endanger health and well-being. Every professional working in the field knows that work is always done in the best interests of the child, and everyone wants to do this job well. It is important that there is a real chance. Mr President! However, it is not enough simply to adjust the size of the staff. More qualified professionals and changes in training levels are needed to get professionals to the field. It should be borne in mind that there is also a shortage of qualified social workers outside child protection. We know that adult social work also has its own challenges. In recent years, the number of starting positions in social work in universities has increased. This proposal will now also increase the number of training places for social work to 200 in the period 22-27. The recruitment problems of child welfare and the turnover of employees are not only corrected by increasing the number of students. The problems are also partly structural. Management, remuneration and investment in working conditions and well-being at work play a key role in attracting child protection workers. One way of obtaining qualified social workers has also been to lighten the qualifications of social workers. I would not go into this debate at all. The question therefore arises as to whether the job description of social workers is really known and, above all, whether the academic skills and discipline of social workers are sufficiently appreciated. As has been said, the social work of child welfare has been suffering from excessive customer numbers for years and the turnover of workers has been high. Workers have in no way had the opportunity to respond to an existing need, and therefore too many children have been left without the help they need. Adjusting the customer dimension of child welfare will bring relief to the sector, and social workers would be able to work in a more ethically sustainable way in the future. When a child needs help, help must be available. Workers must have time to listen to the child and get to know him and his situation. When one employee has a reasonable number of customers, there will be time for this meeting and well-being at work will improve. I would like to thank the government for this long-awaited change. Children have the right to protection and workers have the right to do their work in a safe and sustainable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u198	Thank you. — Mr Keto-Hovinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Child welfare is a very important but under-resourced industry. In 2017, almost half of the municipalities had more than 40 customers, in one fifth more than 60 per social worker in child welfare — and at worst more than one hundred. The number of child welfare notifications has doubled in ten years, yet the contributions to child welfare will be realised as well-being young people and eventually also as well-being adults. For successful child protection, it is essential that the social worker has time to study the child’s affairs. It is also important to ensure a smooth flow of information between authorities, schools and parents. Teachers have become concerned about the implementation of co-operation between home and school during foster care. It would be vital for the day care centre and school to be informed as soon as possible when a child or young person is taken into care. It is essential to know who the school is working with at any time. In connection with the investment decision, child welfare should be obliged to notify in writing the child’s day care or school of the extent to which each person — the guardian, the staff of the place, the person making the investment decision or any other person — is responsible for the child’s affairs and cooperates with the school. From the point of view of information flow, it would be essential to know who will sign the student’s tests, who will be informed if the student falls ill during the school day, who will be invited to the parent’s evening and who will be associated with the day-to-day management of matters. Who will be informed of the penalties, who will have the codes for Wilma, who will be associated with student care or other matters? For the above reasons, it would be important for the law to be subject to an adequate obligation to notify in writing the day-care centre or school of who or what body cooperates with the school and to be competent to decide on matters relating to the early childhood education and compulsory education of the child. Finally, this was found in the draft government proposal last spring. It was unfortunate that the Government's proposal to amend Article 13b of the Child Welfare Act is now dealt with solely as a law and the other proposals will be withdrawn as a whole and the Government's proposal on these will be submitted to Parliament during the spring session in 2022. The addition of Article 52a(2) would contribute to the realisation of the flow of information and thus to the realisation of cooperation between school and home, and when the information is passed, it can be ensured that the best interests of the child are also realised. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u200	Thank you. — And Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u201	Mr President! Thank you for this bill. We're on a very important issue. The draft law proposes to amend the Child Welfare Act by providing for the provision of human resources for the social work of child welfare. The aim is to strengthen the priority of the best interests of the child and the implementation of the rights of the child in child protection and to safeguard the objectives of child and family protection. Adjustable human resources measures reduce the workload of a social worker and thus improve the ability of a social worker to familiarise himself with the child’s affairs and to do social work in the best possible way with the best interests of the child. One social worker in charge of child affairs should have no more than 35 children in the years 22 and 23 and no more than 30 children from 24 years onwards. The proposal concerns children under 18 years of age who are in the customer relationship with child welfare. Since the number of customers is not currently limited, social workers have experienced that they are unable to carry out ethically sustainable child protection work. The conflict between professional identity and reality is too great, and that is what exhausts workers. By limiting the number of customers, it would be possible to reduce the workload of an individual social worker and to have more time in the future to build trust with the child, to look into the needs of support for children and families, and to implement the supervision of foster care. The human resources situation in child welfare is highly challenging and therefore more attention needs to be paid to strengthening the attractiveness of child welfare work, as well as traction and retention factors. A reasonable number of customers, wages corresponding to the demanding work, management and functional structures have a positive impact on the social work of child welfare. President! The Audit Committee has examined the situation regarding child protection and, in particular, the monitoring of child protection. In our report in February this year, we recalled that the Child Welfare Act emphasises the role of the social worker responsible for child affairs throughout child protection. He is responsible for providing the child and the young person with the services and support they need. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child has identified the need for special protection and support for children in child protection services. Social workers responsible for the child's affairs have a special obligation to ensure that this right is exercised and to monitor the implementation of child-specific care. On the basis of the hearings of the Audit Committee, it can be said that supervision is not always carried out and that not all children and young people even know about their own social worker. Children and young people should therefore be more aware of their rights. A child and young person should know who is their own social worker and who can be contacted if there are problems with the services. According to experts consulted by the Audit Committee, the social worker does not have time to meet the child regularly or get to know his or her situation, especially in the case of children placed outside the home. I hope — and so I believe — that this legislative amendment will improve this situation. In its report, the Audit Committee also stressed the need to ensure adequate resources for child protection and its monitoring. This autumn, too, the regional authorities have been calling out in distress that their resources are not even sufficient to carry out statutory controls. The problem is also that supervision is divided between different actors, and complex regulation makes effective control and control more difficult and also increases the risk of non-monitoring. In the spring, the Audit Committee stated that the entire system of supervision of child protection should be subject to evaluation and development, since the current system does not work for the benefit of children as it should. I hope that this message from the Audit Committee will be taken seriously. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u202	Thank you. — Representative Eloranta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u203	Mr President! Child welfare has long been under strain due to the large number of customers. Social workers working in the sector feel that they cannot do their work well and ethically. We all have as many hours a day. There will be no more hours, even though the number of customers will increase to excessive levels. It is impossible to work ethically if there is not enough time to get to know the situation of the child. I am glad that the regulation of the human resources of child protection is included in the Marin Government's programme and the bill has now been brought here in Parliament. The size of personnel improves the situation in many municipalities and cities. Every child deserves a bright future, and child protection is an important means of building its future. This adjustable personnel allocation, which will then be 35 in the next year and 24 in the year, will reduce the workload of the social worker, thereby improving the ability of the social worker to familiarise himself with the matters of the child and to do social work in the best possible way in the best interests of the child. This will strengthen the priority of the child’s interests and the rights of the child in the protection of children and ensure the achievement of the objectives of child and family protection. Social work in child welfare requires a lot of extensive and time-consuming network work, legal expertise and responsible decision-making. By limiting the number of customers, the load of an individual social worker will be reduced and he/she will have better time to build trust with the child, time to look into the needs of support for children and families and to carry out the supervision of foster care. More attention must also be paid to strengthening the attractiveness of child protection work, as well as traction and retention factors. Mr President! The regulation of the maximum number of customers will improve the legal protection of children, especially children who are customers of child welfare and family protection. It strengthens the consideration of the best interests of the child, thereby fulfilling the obligation under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child to ensure that the child’s interests are given priority in all activities of public or private social care, courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies. At the same time, the regional equality of child welfare social work improves, as there are now large differences between municipalities in the number of social workers. This is very important for the equal treatment of children and for the exercise of their rights. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child has also identified the need for special protection and support for children in foster care of children. The social worker responsible for the child’s affairs has a special obligation to ensure that this right is exercised and to monitor the implementation of child-specific foster care. The impact assessment also requires information from children and young people themselves on their circumstances, and it is therefore very good that during the consultation of this proposal a pilot was carried out to consult children and young people in child protection. This is a very good thing. Mr President! At best, the confidential relationship between the child, his family and the social worker enables close work to be done in order to bring about a change so that the child’s customer relationship with child welfare is not prolonged. This includes an ongoing assessment of the effectiveness of the measures. This, too, would be more possible. Children’s parents and other loved ones are concerned about children who are customers of child welfare, which is increased by too strict resourceisation of child welfare social work. A change in the size of the staff can be expected to reduce the concern experienced by the family. Genuine consultation, empowerment and individual support of children, their families and other loved ones will contribute to the creation of trust. The opportunities for a social worker responsible for the child’s affairs to support the family more comprehensively will be improved. The social worker responsible for the child’s affairs has a special responsibility in the realisation of the child’s interests and rights. The social worker is responsible for providing the child with the support and services he needs. In the interests of the child and the effective exercise of his rights, it is essential that the worker has sufficient time to get to know the child and his or her situation. If one social worker has too many customers on his responsibility, there is a high risk that the interests and rights of an individual child will not be fully realised. For example, the right of children in foster care to good care and care is jeopardised in the current situation when social workers are not able to enforce the legality of foster care practices. Society has a special responsibility to protect these children. Legal overseers have also drawn attention to this. It is good that there is now a change in this. It is clear that training increases are also needed to implement the dimensioning, as almost 400 new employees are needed. According to the proposal, these training places are on the increase. Mr President! Children are the future of our society. Social workers working in child welfare help, support, and even save. They work with the most vulnerable children. It does not matter how well and ethically they can do their work.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u204	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u205	Mr President! We have a change to the Child Welfare Act here, and there is a change in this kind in the government proposal, that is to say that one child welfare employee could have 35 children as a customer now in the coming year and the following year and this figure would fall to 30. Until now, the situation has been such — probably little by region or region — that one child welfare worker has had to take care of up to 100 children or these matters of foster care. Mr President! There has been a meeting on the steps of the Parliament every Wednesday like Grandma Birgitta, and in that way she has brought up this situation in child protection, and there are considerable contradictions. Surely, a few years ago, we remember a case in which the child had not been taken into custody. After all, the situation was catastrophic and it appeared that child welfare is a mess, but now, unfortunately, I have also encountered cases of such overreaction in child welfare. In fact, the Child Welfare Act is good, and this will at least improve that law. But, as this Grandma Birgitta insists, instead of taking care of the family, support should be given to the families. I myself have been following a few cases now in Parliament and sometimes in the past, and there are also excesses in the other direction. Interventions are being made, even if I do not think that such intervention is necessary, but perhaps a little guidance, guidance, a little support for families. Unfortunately, it seems quite often that in the case of these families, which are affected by such intervention — and in a way that parents do not accept intervention — there is very often a background that parents seem to be somehow disadvantaged or that these parents have a nepsy, neuropsychological or autism-like characteristic. This is really unfortunate that we are doing this kind of intervention, which parents will not accept, and you can then imagine how parents will feel. In this magazine some time ago it was written about a boy drowning somewhere near here and the entire village community searching, and it was reported that the whole of Finland is grieving. That is truly regrettable. However, these families may get some kind of peer support from it, but the family that is being intervened, the children being taken into care, remains a little like their own, and they find it very difficult to get support and justice for it. They may get justice, but they don't always get justice. They may even be threatened by limiting communication: if you do not agree to this, we will limit your contact with the child. There are such amazing things here that I have been able to follow myself and hear with my own ears. In one case of child welfare, it was such that child welfare workers had been there to get to know the family and write problems and others, and right in the catalogue they had written, everything was only seen through the problems. And perhaps the most incredible thing that I have come across with this experience is that children have been subjected to excessive bans on playing games on PlayStation. In some way, I felt that it was necessary to give these parents a medal and not take the children into their care. These are a number of such things that have bounced from there to the eyes. This fact that there is now a staffing measure may improve this situation, but Maw Maw Birgitta and her background organisation — it was lost children.fi, at this address they have the pages — insist that the current state of child welfare services be investigated in Finland, and I am definitely in favour of this. It would give a true picture of how this is happening in Finland and also how much money society spends on it. We should put the family first here in all decisions, Finns, people and families at the centre. The family is a basic group of society and the natural environment for the well-being of all its members, especially children. Families must receive equal support in order to fulfil their obligations.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u206	Now we have an appointment in advance for this, and Minister Kiuru will be here for a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u207	Mr President! Thank you for the opportunity to further summarise the current state of affairs on this very important issue. Many of you have referred to the current situation, and it must be said that the situation is rather sad for us today, particularly from the point of view of child protection. If you think, in 2017, of which we now have these statistics at our disposal, nearly half of the Finnish municipalities had set a staff size for 40 children per employee. Is this human? And so almost half of the municipalities were able to do this. One fifth of the municipalities had set a staffing scale for 60 children per employee, and at worst the municipalities had 100 children per employee. We cannot continue in Finnish society in such a way that children who are particularly vulnerable are covered by such a small support network, and that is why this proposal is very important. This will be the last thing cheaper for us, especially when we are thinking not only of economic costs but also of costs from the point of view of the social sustainability gap. Children and other independent young people, especially when they are teenagers, are transferred to education and employment very much less, up to 38 per cent less than in the rest of the age group. At the same time, long-term economic support and unemployment chains are 21 per cent more common than others. I have to say that, combined with the increasing number of child welfare declarations, we are forced to get this important work in Finland now, and I am glad that this proposal has finally been brought to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u208	Thank you. — The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u209	The debate on item 7 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session will now continue. — Representative S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u210	Mr President! This intervention was actually requested when the Minister was present. I would have liked to ask him a question when, once again, we are dealing with child protection, in connection with that government proposal to amend the Child Welfare Act tabled by the Minister. The shortage of social workers in child welfare is acute, and this is an undeniable case. It is very good that it is being tackled. However, this point also needs to be raised with regard to child protection and the situation there and the extent to which it is in crisis. As was already mentioned earlier, this is because these recent amendments to the Child Welfare Act, the big changes, have caused this. I've been getting a lot of messages from Child Services. Among other things, it has been pointed out that, if the powers and tools are in order, there are plenty of resources in the sector, there is no problem, but when they are not in order, no resource is enough. Unfortunately, we are living in a situation where nothing is enough and the situation is about to collapse. I would now have asked the Minister what is to be done about this problem and in what time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u211	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. — Minister Kurvinen, please present. I note that a maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral debate and that the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases will be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u212	Mr President! It is particularly nice to be here on the podium because this government proposal before us for a law amending the Act on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and the Law on the Validity of Studies in Higher Education abroad is the first government proposal that I, as Minister of Science and Culture, am allowed to bring here to Parliament. I hope that good cooperation with Parliament will continue on these legislative issues as well. Indeed, this government proposal proposes to amend these two laws, and the aim of this amendment would be to improve the position of a professional group. The aim would be to improve the position of ski instructors and improve their mobility in pursuit of their work. The situation is that currently the role of ski instructor is not regulated in Finland, and as a result there is no competent authority to issue a certificate of competence to ski instructors. These certificates of competence are needed, Mr Parliament, so that these people can also work outside Finland. Nor does the Act on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications provide for jurisdiction in such cases where the profession is not regulated in Finland. This will also benefit other people in unregulated professions. This will provide opportunities for labour mobility within the European Union when there is a national authority under EU law that can issue these certificates of competence to ski instructors, for example. It is proposed that competence be conferred on the National Board of Education to issue such certificates. In addition, this proposal aims to streamline the payment of the fees for applications for recognition to the National Board of Education. The current challenges have been the collection of payments since the decision was adopted. The proposal proposes that new provisions be added to the Act on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and to the Law on Qualifications from Higher Education Studies abroad as well as to this collection of fees. According to the proposal, the fees for applications and decisions on professional qualifications and qualifications paid to the National Board of Education should be paid before the proceedings begin and the decision is taken, or the application for such a decision lapses. In the future, a common processing fee would be paid for the different types of applications and later a decision fee in accordance with the type of decision. In the long term, the new model is expected to speed up the processing of these applications and thus to reduce red tape somewhat, in a small way. Mr President! To the end of the entry into force of these legislative proposals: this main issue is intended to enter into force as soon as possible, so that ski professionals can enjoy it next winter, but then this provision on handling fees is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2022.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u213	Thank you. — Representative al-Taee absent. — Mr Koponen Ari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u214	Thank you, Speaker! Good luck with the first presentation of the government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u215	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Minister Paatero, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u216	Mr President! This is therefore traditionally a bill coming here every autumn, which relates to next year's budget and defines the central government share percentage of basic municipal services. And also to note here that this amount is about EUR 8 billion, since it has already been separated a few years ago from the amount of tax base changes, which is about EUR 2.6 billion. This percentage of central government participation may draw attention to the fact that it will be lower next year than this year, but there are good reasons for it. This year's EUR 300 million increase in the share of the state will no longer be interest-based, and that is one of the factors that will have an impact on this. The increase comes from new and expanding tasks in municipalities, the biggest of which are changes in the Act on Elderly Services, changes in social welfare and health care customer fees, changes in student and student care, and changes in the protective part of child protection and others. They will amount to more than EUR 116 million. We have also made a separate decision on state aids during the spending limits period, and that is EUR 256 million almost exactly. The cost-sharing review will not be carried out for next year, and then what will also affect this percentage will be when index increases have been omitted in 2016, 2018 and 2019. Unfortunately, these have now been hanging there, and it is better that they are then reset for next year, so it is not possible to finance all this old burden, but we have to get things right before the welfare areas are separated from this municipal economy. That is why this percentage of state aid will also change, and so will the competitiveness pact which has still existed there, even though in practice it does not matter. There will also be an increase in the sum of around EUR 54 million due to changes in population and other factors of calculation. As a whole, when you make this reduction and reduction in these amounts, as I have just said, the municipalities will have about EUR 300 million more central government contributions for next year. It should be noted that during this term of government it has been particularly sought to maintain that index increases are made in full for municipalities. In the case of municipalities, there are points which will be deducted from this total amount next year as well, and which relate, among other things, to the municipal digitalization grant, which will remove 10 million from it, to medical helicopters, which will cost over 20 million, and then to the reduction in expenditure on long-term unemployment pension aid, which will cost 7 million. In other words, these will be removed from this state. In addition, 2 million will be added because municipalities will be obliged to contribute to the financing of welfare areas. This entity is therefore large and will affect the municipalities. Our aim is for municipalities to be able to return to normal next year. Hopefully this interest rate situation will end, so that in 23 C.E., when the economy is halved, the municipalities will be able to cope with the responsibilities that will then still remain for the municipalities. That is why, in addition to this percentage of state participation, we have a recent search, particularly for reasons of interest rate, for, among other things, 1.1 billion directly to cover the costs of the interest rate, and we have had these state aid activities under many other ministries, which have been sought and met. So, in this case, the presentation was only this normal central government share of basic services, and that is the percentage, no tax compensation, no compensation for losses, and no state subsidies, which will also play a large part in the coming years, especially for many ministries. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u217	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u218	Mr President! Now that the Minister of Local Government is here, thank you for this presentation. Two questions: The second relates to this year. These interest subsidies are still being given to the municipalities this year, so if you will please tell me again when I do not remember how much that amount is about now, what is still being given at the end of the year. Let me take an example: there have been quite a few municipalities in our region that have been in poor oxygen before and after the corona, and then there have been various statutory tasks that have taken up state aids. I'd like to ask you what the amount is. And what do you think, when you have a good feeling at the Ministry of Finance in the Department of Local Government about the amount of these problems that local authorities now have with the interest rate and how much money they have gone, is it possible to cover them all 100%? The second question then relates to this matter itself, which is what we are talking about here, namely the system of state aids and the state subsidies for basic services. At the moment, the municipalities have been given the task of gnawing what has gone into the war and how much more to do. Since I have traveled around those municipalities, there is now quite a lot of such uncertainty about how to do it. So it may seem quite clear to us that, yes, it is taken in such a way that everyone who has gone into the war until now will then move away, but you see, there is such a thing that the same person has done part of the war and then knows how to do it, such as a salary bill or an office job or something else. Now there are different ways of making this grain, and there is a risk that if you grow it differently, it will then affect the financing of their future welfare areas. And now I would like to ask you, Minister, do you have such instructions in the Department of Finance, the kind of sabluuna with which the grain is produced? I am now calling for us to consider the funding of future welfare areas to which this now relates, but we must also see to it that, as Minister of Local Government, you agree, the municipalities are standing. It has to be reasonable now. I heard that the Treasury would have given us this kind of reckoning, but I would like to hear from you now, because I think that you would know about it and you know who made the model how this is calculated. If all areas of well - being fall differently, they are in a slightly different situation. I'm sure you can catch up with what I'm saying here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u219	Thank you. — Minister Paatero, please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Very good questions, these will have to be discussed here by a large group of people in the areas too. If I start with the latter: Currently, the Treasury automatically collects the financial data of the municipalities, and that is why this harmonisation in how they are recorded has been necessary. That's why the message is just like that. The State Treasury has become that which of the accounting lines belongs to what item in order to obtain comparable data. With regard to this transfer, there are still a number of issues that are being addressed with the regions, including these guidelines. But this automatic financial record entry comes to the Treasury, and that's why it belongs to that side too. The cuts that take place in municipalities are the central government share of basic services, which is, therefore, this imputed share of this social security component, and the state shares of the civilised sector still remain there. So that's it. Then there is the fact that how much money the municipality has spent on these: from this whole, we look at what is the percentage that will be cut off from the tax revenue. That's why it's so calculated when you see how much of that income has been used for next year. That is why it makes a big difference how the municipalities are now budgeting for the social welfare expenditure for next year, because the decision-makers, who are also in welfare areas, will then experience it at the other end. If we are to pull down very carefully now — I am sorry, Mr President, this is not a direct issue, but it is such a big question — if we draw very low, very negative, then it will have an impact on the financing of welfare areas. Now to the question of this, what is the sum? At the moment, in the regulation that set in motion the process of granting this grant to the direct costs of the interest rate, which are therefore very direct, not a care and care debt, but quite directly these tests and tracing and so forth, that amount has been calculated at EUR 1.1 billion, but, of course, according to what the regions are looking for, what the municipalities are looking for, because it must be based on those realistic costs. In the future, municipalities and welfare areas will have this care and care debt, and that is why it is quite a large sum. But that is why EUR 400 million has already been earmarked for the RRF, of which EUR 100 million will go to digitalization and EUR 300 million will go directly to this care and care debt. In addition to this, it may be necessary, as has now been the case, to make targeted assistance arrangements, for example for the school sector, the education and education sector, if we see the situation as acute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u221	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u222	Mr President! I'll be brief. Now that this corona allowance... I understand very well that there is talk here of a change in the system of state aid reform, but that is because what is happening this year will then also affect the ability of municipalities to act next year, so I still ask about interest subsidies and these in general, so that now that the municipalities have been given — thanks for the fact that the municipalities have managed relatively well and some have actually made the huge deficit a surplus — of course, will the Ministry of Finance follow what the municipalities have spent the money on? If that money has been given to the fact that there has been a nursing debt or that there has been a drop in student care when the students have been distant — the student care has been lowered — then it is not necessarily the money that has been received from you that has been lifted up the student care system, and I think it is wrong. And that is what I am calling for you to follow whether or not the money will be put into what has been experienced there. I will now take, for example, this student care and that which is now linked to the role of Minister Sarkkinen as well, in general, this welfare deficit which may have been there. This is exactly the money that should be used to pay for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u223	Minister Paatero again.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u224	Thank you! With regard to the details, I can say that this corona grant is the STM regulation, so that I now speak a little on the neighboring property, but well, we are together — the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health — it has been prepared, but it will then be processed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In the case of these aid schemes, criteria have been set out and monitored. But then, for this year, we have had, among other things, a general increase in the share of the state of 300 million, which will not be followed up. So it goes as a normal state contribution to the general budget in the municipality, and then the municipality sees how it best exploits the well-being of the municipality. But this is what we do with these aided people. I say here at the same time as I was given the opportunity that we have this whole aid system under the purging process, not only for the organisations but also for the municipalities. In fact, it is even, let me say, quite a large sum, when you look at all the forms of aid from the state for the benefit of the municipalities at the group level. That is up to EUR 1.9 billion. And this is why this kind of digitalisation and its increased transparency in that respect are also necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u226	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Sarkkinen, please present.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u227	Mr President! Unfortunately, the Koronapandem is not over yet, and in some way it is likely that we will have to live with the disease for the rest of next year. The present proposal has been drawn up as a matter of urgency to ensure that insured persons have access to vaccinations to protect against covid-19 and to facilitate the financial access of insured persons to coronavirus research not only in public health but also in private health care. The current temporary provisions of the Health Insurance Act are in force until 31.12.2021 and would therefore extend their validity until 30.6.202. The reimbursement of the vaccination measure for Korona vaccine in private health care would be extended in accordance with the Health Insurance Act. The compensation rate would be EUR 10. The reimbursement costs of the compensation for the vaccination measure would be financed from State resources. The continued substitution of the vaccination measure would also mean that the journeys made to these vaccinations would be reimbursed for the travel expenses of health insurance insurance. Travel expenses would be financed according to the normal financial components of health insurance, i.e. 67% of the State’s resources and 33% of the contributions from the insured persons. Mr President! It is important for all Finns to be able to receive a corona vaccine and at least travel costs would not be an obstacle to taking the vaccine. In addition, the authorisation of the Health Insurance Act for the adoption of the Government Decree by this proposal would be extended. The Regulation would provide for compensation for coronavirus research in a way which differs from the normal procedure for establishing the Social Insurance Institution’s rate under the Health Insurance Act. The aim would be for the rate provided for by the Regulation to be higher than the EUR 56 currently reimbursed by the Social Insurance Institution for the PCR study. The proposal relates to the draft budget of the State of 2022 and is intended to be dealt with in connection with it. The laws are intended to enter into force on 1 January 2022 and to remain in force until 30 June 2022.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u228	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u229	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Sarkkinen and good luck with this new task. I don't think I've congratulated you on this new assignment yet. That's great. That's a great job. But thank you also for this bill of yours, the government's proposal, because it is actually a continuation of the past for the most part. It's very important at the moment. We have not yet survived the corona, tests are needed, and then we need those vaccines. Vaccination coverage is not what we would like at the moment, and unfortunately the corona situation is worse than we anticipated a little earlier, and that is just the truth now. When we had the previous pandemic ten years ago, that is, swine flu, then we were doing the analysis, the evaluation that we had a few big evaluation days, when we were evaluating what should be taken into account next time we had this type of pandemic, which is what it is now. — — — — This is even wider because swine flu was treated more quickly because we received vaccines earlier. We got them in the first wave. — One of the lessons we learned was that according to private individuals, as quickly as possible and especially during the test and vaccination phase, and then, of course, at the treatment stage if the need for treatment had increased. Then there wasn't so much of what's been going on again. So it is precisely this that we have both the testing, the vaccination, but also the treatment, and it would involve a private person closely. In my opinion, the fact that this health insurance allowance is now being paid is a good and sensible thing and will continue to do so. This took a long time for this government to involve private individuals in these, but better late than never and good this way. But let me just say that we have to recognise that we still have the capacity in health care to ensure that, if there is a huge number of patients or the number of vaccinations or the number of tests, we need that private sector. This must be borne in mind that it is never enough for the public in such pandemic situations, and that is why such cooperation models should be established in advance, and not so that it is necessary to do so, for example, through health insurance. This could be done quite differently when it comes to such so-called contingency models. Secondly, Mr President, what we learned at the time was precisely that communication should be carried out well and that there should be a lawyer, a communication expert and an epidemiologist in that group. That's how you get the communications to play better. I will not take any further views on this now, but I will just say that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u230	Thank you. — Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u234	Thank you. — And Mr Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u235	Mr President! Inspired by Mr Mäkelä, I will indeed bring this occupational health care. Now that we are wondering why the vaccine coverage is not so high, it is understandable that not everyone can take the vaccine, and then of course there are many different reasons. But then I read in the newspaper that in Parliament, for example, the vaccine coverage was not exactly what we had imagined when the analysis was being carried out, and then the argument was given, among other things, that when you're here for weeks, then at the weekend you don't necessarily get it in your own town, but that would have been corrected precisely by having a pop-up point like this, just as we did on Saturday in the Idea Park in Seinäjoki had a pop-up point and a huge rush to get vaccinations. On the other hand, I understand, I know these systems that exist here in the house, and I am not going to criticise them now, but I would say in general that occupational health care is involved. The sooner we get, because there is a low threshold to go and get that vaccine, and then, for example, we could not say that there is no vaccine for the Members of Parliament, that they are here for weeks.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u236	Thank you. — Mr Sarkkinen, Mr Sarkkinen, Mr Sarkkinen, Mr Sarkkinen, Mr Sarkkinen, Mr Sarkkinen, Mr Sarkkinen, Mr Sarkkinen, Mr
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u237	Mr President! First of all, this development of preparedness and preparedness: It is indeed the case, as Mr Risikko said, that we must be able to learn from what has happened and also to plan for the next pandemics and crises. Those crises may not be the same as they were before, but you still have to try to learn. Such pre-building of cooperation models is certainly something that should be possible at both national and local level, and now it is also intended to strengthen the regional structure of preparedness and preparedness in the welfare regions, and it is also important to build these cooperation models with the private side in particular. In this vaccination, municipalities can take a private side with them. Some municipalities have done it more, some less, but I also think that if and when this vaccination and corona in some form
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u238	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in relation to the scheduled items. — I will open the debate. First of all, it is stated that Minister Harakka is gone. Congressman Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u239	Mr President! In itself, it is not wrong to support the renewal of the car fleet in Finland at all, but it is quite right, but I am still a little puzzled by this aid for the purchase of electric cars, both through purchasing aid and through the taxation of cars. I find that problematic in the sense that it puts some technology above another, does not act as a technological neutrality. And then, on the other hand, in this country, which already has the oldest car fleet in a civilised Europe, that support will then be reduced from both ends in absolute terms to those in the control countries, i.e. it will not renew the car fleet on the schedule that the government might wish. In any case, the aid is for cars that the majority of the people cannot afford: since the average car in Finland was worth between EUR 3000 and EUR 4400, I remember that new electric cars are not purchased with that kind of money. Then again, if you take the car tax off electric cars — think of an electric car costing EUR 60000 — then if the car cost EUR 60000 57,000, does a person who could afford to buy that car for EUR 60000, rather than that car for EUR 57000? I don't really believe that, but that car in that income class will be purchased if it's necessary. I also doubt that now that Finnish car taxation has been what it has been, car manufacturers and dealers have had to subsidise the Finnish car market at least in some way hidden, for example, in such a way that packages have been built on the accessories of cars that they have been sold to Finland at a lower price and thus made trade in Finland. Now, if the car tax were to be withdrawn from electric cars, it would not be the case that car manufacturers and dealers would transfer this subsidy more and less to the purchase price of their cars, for example by taking away equipment that, in any case, will have to be purchased in Finland? In other words, the air heat pump used to heat electric cars, for example, is a very necessary equipment in Finland. Its price is about EUR 1000 in the order of magnitude. If it is no longer standard equipment, then very quickly the tax advantage of the car will be brought about in that way. So I suspect that there may be a bit of the taste of dupe here, and the tens of millions will be wasted on what is meant for this. But, of course, it would be good if the Minister had responded to this suspicion.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u240	Thank you. — Representative Pitko is absent.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u241	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Presentation by Mr Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u242	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Education, Mr Andersson, who led a programme of measures to prevent bullying, violence and harassment. The next step is to take it forward with determination. Preventive measures are cheaper in human and financial terms than remedying the problems that have already been identified. However, the main weakness of the service system is the significant under-resourcement of student care, and staff do not always have sufficient opportunities to work with pupils in a preventive manner. It may be at its worst to put out fires and to react quickly to schools, but it is precisely because of the shortcomings of the legislation that we are facing that wall. In my initiative, supported by hundreds of colleagues, I now propose three changes and three aids. Let me also mention that their transition to practice would not increase the costs in schools. My first suggestion is to increase the decision-making powers for detentions to the principal, along with the pupil's teacher. This is in fact about to come into force, as it is part of the government's proposal 127/2021. As far as the other two amendments I have proposed are concerned, even in serious cases of violence, the student’s participation in education cannot be refused except for the rest of the day at most. The Government itself proposes an extension of the maximum period by one working day. Almost all the commentators criticised it as still too short, as the services of student care and the support measures for returning to education in practice require more time to implement them with current resources. I fully agree with that. Moreover, a short period of time often appears to other students that the matter has not been sufficiently addressed. In this bill of law, like the commentators, I propose the possibility of refusing the bully’s participation in education for three days. My final suggestion concerns the temporary dismissal of a student by the principal's decision. The student's legal security is not increased by the fact that the decision can only be taken by a multi-member institution. It is well known that the bureaucratic and slow expulsion procedure makes it easier for the principal and the parents to agree on the student’s stay at home for an agreed period of time, even if the legislation does not allow such a solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u243	Congressman Kinnunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u244	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Koponen, for taking this bill. I have signed this initiative with 99 other Members of Parliament in due course. The word ‘the principal’ has come from the ‘rector’ of the Finnish The principal controls, administers, leads. The principal is the head of his school. School principals do their management work in the midst of a variety of pressures. It is important that the Director has sufficient powers. This is the case in every organisation. The principal will take care of the safety of the school community. Every child and young person has the right to attend school in a safe learning environment. Disruptive behaviour of the student should be addressed in a timely manner. In a school where there may be hundreds of children and dozens of teachers, it hurts and happens. Rectorship must be able to intervene and act well even in unexpected situations. It must then be clear that the powers are also sufficient. Mr President! The principal can't do it alone. The importance of teamwork is emphasised. Close cooperation between different professionals, effective contact with authorities, such as the police and, for example, child protection, is important. One of the central tasks of the school and the principal is to tackle bullying. According to a study by the University of Turku, Kiva School has significantly reduced bullying in schools where the programme has been implemented over the last 15 years. It is worthwhile continuing and extending the programme to new schools. Bullying is still a problem. The school police officer I met in Oulu recently expressed concern about the ever-increasing violence of young people. Violence should be spoken of as violence. We need to take these situations seriously. In more serious cases, cooperation with the police is particularly important. It would be a good idea to name a school police officer for each school. Mr President! The initiative proposes the right of the principal to order detention. This has been achieved at the beginning of October by a government decree. Mr Koponen has therefore been on an important agenda. Koponen's bill provides the principal with the possibility of refusing participation in education for a period of three days, during which student support would be promoted by student care. This is [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u245	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u246	Mr President! This is indeed a good bill by Mr Koponen, as Mr Kinnunen said there. I've signed this myself. What is particularly important here is this increase in the principal's powers, because quite a lot of the teaching staff will give us the feedback that there is no authority to intervene. Bullying is a very serious matter, and then it is often the case that the bully has to change schools and that the bully cannot be done anything. This adds to the principal's powers. As has already been pointed out here, the government has already acted and has already increased its powers, and then we in the Committee on Culture already have a government proposal on this whole, so I am not going to go into so much detail now, but I am going to say one thing as I have thought about the government proposal in general, and I am going to bring it up there in committee, and I am going to say this here: As good as this bill and this idea and that government proposal are, the only thing that grieves me is this denial of teaching as a protective measure. The good will is to deny the teaching that you are not going to school, but what are we sure about ensuring that this young person or child gets help when he is out of school? And when no one can be forced to take care of, so to speak, outside the school, it may be that the bully experiences it like this that yippies, now I got out of here, and especially if those student care activities cannot be taken home for a reason, or the child goes somewhere for the Hunngo kids, we do not know where the young or the child is, and we cannot arrange any such forced treatment. And here is precisely the fact that it should be backed up by its student care, and that is my crumb, that when that child is not there at school and he has been denied it, he is not at school, so how do we ensure that we support it there when we cannot do any forced system, because it goes beyond the constitutional point of view. We will deal with this in peace in that committee and, of course, we will also take on board this Koponen bill. But this is the only point that grieves me, that how do we ensure its support, because now, if ever, this child or young person who is in such a serious situation that he is denied protection needs that help.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u247	Thank you. — Mr Kopra, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u248	Mr President! This bill by Mr Koponen is necessary and welcome, and it is gratifying to see that the government has already taken this into account and that progress is being made in a better direction. Mr Kinnunen and Mr Risikko raised good points of view as to why this proposal is important and why this type of development is needed. I myself was the chairman of the Education and Education Committee in Lappeenranta, and we were, of course, forced to solve these serious disciplinary problems and abuse cases at times. They're never pleasant. Even then, we found that one problem is that the period between its action and its consequences is too long. Much progress has been made, but it is particularly important that the school principal can immediately intervene in that situation, and very quickly then make decisions on possible sanctions and refusal of education and dismissal, so that this unlawful act or disorder or any other perpetrator can also become clear about the causal link and consequences. Of course, all such situations are undesirable, but when the situation is so serious that this must be considered, then there must be sufficient authority to act quickly and decisively. It is true that, in such a situation, when a student who has caused such a violent or otherwise disturbance is denied the opportunity to attend school, we cannot ascertain how he or she is going to get there outside the school, and then it must be put in order by means of student care. However, it cannot be that, due to the shortcomings of its care system, such a violent person can then be terrorising the schooling of other children, but it is clear that if anyone is suffering in such a situation, then let him be guilty of bad deeds and let him be expelled from school if necessary and then let the student services provide assistance to the extent that he can. And of course we should be able to do that too. These kids need help too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u249	Congressman Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u250	Mr President! It has been wonderful to note that it has been during this parliamentary term that children's well-being has been very well placed both in the committees and in the Chamber, as well as, of course, to tackle bullying and violence with concrete actions. As we have now heard in the Chamber, the problem is common across party boundaries, so let us continue to work together to resolve this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u251	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u252	Mr President! This initiative by Mr Koponen is very much to be welcomed and will bring more means, at least some means, to tackle the clear, existing problem. Mr Kopra has just made an interesting point about this, that is to say this temporal link in cases of bullying, so that they can be addressed in due course. Again, it speaks of the event horizon of a child of that age, that if, after a week, there is an intervention in wrongdoing, it will not even be remembered what has been done, nor will it be possible to learn from it. So it is good that school staff, teachers and principals have the means to intervene in these matters here and now. These cases of bullying and school violence are challenging to deal with, and, of course, the first thing they always do is the attitude of the staff. Bullying must be taken seriously, and it must be called by the right names. Yes, assault is an assault, even if it has been done by a child, and there may be situations that require police involvement. We in South Karelia have brought this involvement of the police on a low threshold, and I understand that these experiences of police involvement have been good. However, there are situations where the attitude alone is not enough, but there is also a need for competence, and the initiative would now increase the powers of the principals. There is such a delicate balance here that some means help in some cases, and now, if even a little more means are added, it is possible that it will increase the number and scale of cases to be helped here, and it is true that every situation of bullying that has been resolved is a positive achievement.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u253	Congressman S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u254	Mr President! Thank you once again for Mr Koponen's excellent initiative, which I have also signed. We have very similar subjects and agents that are being driven here, and each other is being supported in these matters. That is an extremely good thing. Here, too, Mr Risikko has already raised his concern that when school is denied, what happens next. And this is just cause for concern. It is true that when this is done — a rigid measure of this kind is taken, that schooling is denied — there must be clear, effective policies which it uses and which then interfere with the disorderly behaviour of such a student and actively seek to correct that situation. This is, of course, in everyone's interest. Yes, we must have uniform operating models in such situations as school violence and their treatment in general. That is also the issue of equality. Of course, this is not the case in this country, there are no operating models anywhere. One city may have different operating models in place at every school, and in one school these operating models work, and in another the operating models do not work, and these schools may be close to each other. I would see that this is an untenable situation in a welfare state like this, just as Finland is. This cannot be the case. School violence is a very serious phenomenon; we all understand it. Now I was recently in dialogue with the staff of the Foundation for Support and asked them what was one of the clear defining factors for which people are coming. This Foundation is an instance that helps hard-to-work people to find employment and is a foundation that produces anti-unemployment coaching work. They said that in practically all cases there is bullying, or school violence, and it was another such moment of awakening that what effect does this phenomenon have? And I'm still wondering. Even though speeches are very much given and genuine and active concern is shown, we still have a lot of work to do and to correct and develop in this area, and these actions would actually be cost-neutral. In other words, such initiatives are very welcome, and I am really glad that Mr Koponen, that you had done it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u255	Thank you. — Representative Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u256	Mr President! I have already praised this initiative in my speech, and I myself am the author of the initiative. I would like to say that we have a similar government proposal in the Committee on Culture and Education and, of course, I fully understand that it is only there that the detailed positions will be established, but here I am thinking out loud about this refusal to teach as a safeguard measure. That is certainly justified, but I am concerned that this young person will not be helped outside the school. That student care is important in itself, but does that student care have resources, is there any such arsenal available? It's just like the one you're talking about here. S.H.I.E.L.D. brought up, there's a slightly different method of intervention in different locations. I am also thinking here about making this a more powerful, sort of intervention system for these who are denied school as a protective measure. My second point relates to the fact that if we are just talking about bullying, it does not give an idea of what is at stake. It is a question of school violence, and if it were called school violence, then we could be more easily linked to activities such as the Ankkuri model. After all, we have this Ankkuri model in use in various parts of Finland, i.e. when the young person becomes the first crime, we catch him in a so-called help circle, and it is usually the police, social worker and psychiatric nurse who is present or who is present in what areas, but it is a multi-professional cooperation and the police are involved in it. If we were talking about school violence, we would have the opportunity to link this type of Ankkuri model much more easily when it is, however, effective, with the authorities involved. But I understand that not all regions have sufficient resources. But I will continue to be there in committee to raise concerns about who will then take care of these, who have been denied schooling and who will not be seen there every day. Some parents may deny it, and in fact parents have the right to do so in the case of minors. This is a serious question, then, and I will make it clear in committee that there is a really more serious possibility of intervention than mere support for student care. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u257	And the first signatory of the initiative, Mr Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u258	Thank you, Speaker! Good reflection from Mr Risiko, Chairman of the Committee on Education. Thank you for your fine words and a very good conversation. Continue work on solving the problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u260	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Conversation. First signatory of the initiative, representative S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u261	Mr President! Child welfare has experienced a deepening crisis since the last legislative amendment. The situation has become clear, among other things, with regard to recent serious acts of violence by minors, which have increased alarmingly. The message that has come in abundance throughout the kingdom from the heart of child welfare is worth taking very seriously. Intoxicant abuse problems in children who have been taken into care have increased dramatically, as has violent behaviour, which has also escalated at the same time. It is not unusual for a child in custody to be armed and also ready to use his or her weapons for the rest of the dependants as well as for the staff. Raising children is not an easy job; that is what we all know, even though the basics that a child needs are quite simple and understandable. To grow into a balanced person, a child needs a few basic things, namely love and borders and not only security, as we all do here. When we, as a society, take a minor child into our care, we make a huge promise at the same time, and this is something that we should all understand. We then promise to give boundaries and love, caring and security, and it is precisely because of the lack of those things that the child is taken from his own life to safety. Now, however, we cannot keep that promise and, unfortunately, it has disastrous consequences. The latest amendment to the Child Welfare Act places a very strong emphasis on the right of the child to self-determination. Therefore, the child’s life cannot be restricted as appropriate. So this is not the point where the limits are fulfilled. Even limiting the use or playing of a child’s phone has made it a heavy, complex, administrative process, which has to fill out numerous forms and consult interested parties. It is precisely this increase in heavy bureaucracy that has caused the child to be left behind and the focus is on the bureaucracy on which staff working time is constrained. If limiting the use of the phone is complicated and burdensome, so is limiting other matters in the life of a child in custody. This is essentially linked to the limitation of the mobility of the child, which is essentially the subject of this initiative. Limiting mobility is also fundamental to raising a child, and we also know this. When mobility cannot be restricted, there has also been a large increase in the number of escape cases for children in custody, which in turn has increased the workload of the staff. It is the responsibility of the institution or place of business to find the fugitive and then bring him back to the place of establishment. Problems are again encountered, as the staff have no right to be apprehended. When a fugitive is found and refuses to go with the staff, which is a very normal situation, we have to call the police. It is then a question of providing official assistance, and each case goes to the chief officer to consider whether or not to provide such assistance. Generally, but there are also cases where no official assistance has been provided, and what is the staff doing in that situation? And if assistance is provided, it may take a very long time for a police patrol to arrive, because even the police are heavily under-resourced, as there may be a crooked pile of tasks waiting in the middle of the week. When a child or young person is experiencing symptoms, he or she must be able to restrict his or her movement in order to control the worst stage of the crisis. If this cannot be done, the situation will get worse and worse very quickly. Whose advantage is that? In what way will the best interests of the child be realized? The fact that the child cannot be offered borders and love, no security, cannot be in line with the spirit of the Child Welfare Act, and that is why I strongly argue that there is a clear deficit in the Child Welfare Act, which we must try to correct. The current situation has put child protection in such a bad crisis that a great many in the industry are considering changing the sector, and many have already done so. Many work there, driven by a strong vocation. They cannot leave children who need them, but what happens when they too get enough? Somewhere they have that line, and who will take care of these children and young ones? No one anymore. We understand that the exclusion of young people is a very serious problem and is the biggest single threat to internal security. These children and young people are the people who are at the greatest risk of exclusion and many of them are already excluded. If we cannot help them in this situation, it is quite clear that they will be excluded once and for all, and that price tag will then be unsustainable, both humanly and economically. Why are we letting that happen? Because of the overemphasized right to self-determination? It is in complete conflict with the child’s normal, normal upbringing. I can't believe it. At present, the head of the child’s place of residence may, by administrative decision after a bureaucratic process, restrict the movement of the child for a period of seven days. It has been widely identified as a completely inadequate measure. This has become a very common message from the field. Since it has not been possible to restrict the movement of children and young people, it has also significantly increased the problem of substance abuse, which in practice means the increased use of drugs. We all understand without explanation the problems it causes. This bill proposes that Article 69(2) of Chapter 11 of the Child Welfare Act be amended so that the Director of the Child Welfare Institution or a person belonging to the care and care staff of the institution he or she has designated may restrict the freedom of movement of the child instead of the current seven days for a maximum period of 30 days. Mr President! Limits are love. The boundaries are security. The mere fact that there are no borders creates a clear feeling of insecurity for the child and the youth, which can have damaging consequences for the child’s development and for the building up of an intact self-image. Before the law was changed, it was allowed to set boundaries, to raise, to be concerned that the child would get enough rest and not be on the phone night by night and not as a fugitive all over the world, to care. Now it has been made unreasonably difficult. I strongly believe that the common will of each of us legislators here is that we will do everything we can to ensure that children and young people have the best possible environment, safe and caring, and we do not want to put it at risk, at least through legislation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u262	Thank you. — Representative Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u263	Mr President! This good initiative, taken by Mr S.H.I.E.L.D., is indeed now very appropriate at this time. I'm afraid I haven't seen it myself. I would have signed if I had known or noticed this, but that is how I can say that I support this. It is a question of extending the restrictions on the freedom of movement of young people in a child welfare institution, and also of increasing powers in this regard. Representative S.H.I.E.L.D. here provided a very good argument that when escapes occur, most of the consequences are quite catastrophic and rarely lead to good. That is why this restriction on freedom of movement for a longer period than is well-founded today. Of course, it is only important for the multi-professional cooperation that, when freedom of movement is restricted, it will also be able to help and have sufficient resources there at the Child Welfare Institute to discuss and support the young person to return to the order of things, so to speak. Yes, it's just that a young man needs love and boundaries. There are very many reasons why young people run away, and even such reasons should be investigated at the Child Welfare Institute when their freedom of movement is restricted. After all, this world has gone to a small amount of red tape, so much so that some aid measures are not even done or simply do not have time when they demand so much red tape. Perhaps now we should have more confidence in these professionals who wonder what is good for a young person. Even a youth many times after that understands why this had to be done. And yet such communities are able to function, and it is also a self-assessment of those activities. Of this bill, it is worth reminding you that it would be good to take this forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u264	Thank you. — and Mr Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u265	Mr President! Representative S.H.I.E.L.D. has made an excellent bill and I fully support it. The rapporteur's opening speech, that is to say Mr S.H.I.E.L.D.'s opening speech, was so comprehensive and complex that it is difficult to add anything to it. When you read the news in the newspapers about crimes involving young people, it is quite often the case that one of them is involved in a youth who is a child welfare customer or who may have escaped from a nursing home or nursing home or institution of this kind. This is due to the fact that legislation is currently too lax, too lax as to how these young people who need help can be restricted. It is clear that these young people, who have problems resulting from which they are the clients of child welfare and nursing homes, have problems that they need precisely those limits and also that love. Here, when you interpret and look at this current situation, which in recent years has gone very quickly in a really bad direction, I wonder why the professionals in the industry are not listening more. That field of child welfare professionals would find good solutions on how to deal with this issue. I inevitably wonder whether this issue has become too politicised and some form of fundamentalism has taken hold of the fact that the right of self-determination of young people is more respected than it is for health at all. In any case, this legislation has now put this issue in a situation in Finland where society neglects the educational obligation it assumes when taking these children into care. The situation is contradictory; it must be corrected. If children are taken into care on the basis of disorderly behavior or other reasons, then they must be able to provide the education that includes not only love but also the setting of boundaries, and that is now lacking.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u266	Like this. — and Mr S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u267	Thank you, Mr President. Very good comments and speeches on this issue, and this is very important. — I would still like to make that line and love a little more specific, that in what way, for example, such a teenage person is very much rebelling and protesting against his parents, for example, about setting borders and such, and intimacy: I have been setting up an association such as Who cares ry, which is doing a lot of preventative work, especially with children and young people. We had a pretty big tour like this, involving researchers from the University of Eastern Finland, who then did their own research on what young people lack their parents. Three things came out clearly from there, and it was like a confusingly uniform result. First of all, there was food, warm food: it is not nearly so unambiguous that the one in the family will be realized. The second was the limits: they want the limits, even though they are rebelling against them. But it is precisely because of the importance of borders that it brings a sense of security, that people care about me and that it is not in any way the same how it comes and goes. In that sense, too, it is extremely important and they themselves want it. Then the last thing was that love: to care, to ask how you are doing, to take closeness and to be interested in the lives of children and young people. This, in my opinion, was a very uplifting and instructive result, that they themselves really lack these. Well, we have very often seen what has already been said today that we have a lot of problems with competences in these areas. In some ways, it seems that in legislation we are constantly making shadowboxes of black eyes for ourselves, drawing things into a mess and unnecessarily complicated and creating unnecessary bureaucracy, and then, suddenly, we will have no authority to do anything at all — and this is what I can say as a police officer, if there is no authority, there is no task to do. This is always the case as an official or, in this way, as an operator acting in his responsibilities, must have that authority. If you don't, we'll go on thin ice. When we make mistakes in legislation, you have to be able to raise your hand up and make corrective moves, and it has to happen the faster the younger people it touches. This is exactly the kind of case, and it is really a bit of a rush to make these corrections. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u268	Thank you. — Mr Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u269	Mr President! On the subject of this welcome initiative, I would like to add a few perhaps slightly more gloomy aspects to which I do not have any wisdom stones in my own right to resolve them, but I would at least like to highlight the problem so that it is in the debate. So, in my opinion, drugs are very often involved in these more serious matters of child protection for minors and in criminal matters. From that part of the country too, we are not even talking about large cities, there is alarming news that drug-related crime has increased, even in small villages, and we are already setting up young people, to put it in Finnish for children, drug rehab, treatment clinics by hospital districts. So let's not talk about 16-year-olds or even necessarily 14-year-olds, but younger ones. And now, if we are talking about drugs and the acquisition of drugs, of course, it often involves organised crime, and it may lead to the situation that these children and young people are at least being subjected to organised crime there as perpetrators of crime, and that is an extremely undesirable phenomenon, unfortunately, a very common phenomenon in the world. In my opinion, this needs to be addressed in Finland in time for this to be prevented and prevented, so that it does not become commonplace.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u270	Like this. — And the first signatory of the initiative, Mr S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-13-ps-116.u271	Thank you, Mr President. For a few more things, I'll make a withdrawal. That is where Mr Risikko earlier raised the role of the police in such matters. Very often, in those situations, there is also talk of preventive work by the police. At present, 2% of the total amount of work the police have during the year is spent on preventive work. That's not enough. If we were to raise that amount to 6%, it would make a very impressive, effective, preventative work that could be done specifically with children and young people, which would enable us to tackle, for example, the situations of violence in schools and also the situations that are taking place in that area of life for children and young people today. We understand that if this increase could be made, it would bring clear savings in the long term and in the short term. That is just where the problem of substance abuse among children and young people was raised. I find it quite descriptive that at the moment we still do not have a substance abuse programme for children and young people. It tells us something about how we are informed about the problems children and young people have and what to do about them. Are we saying that children and adolescents do not have a substance abuse problem? It's just not like that. So there's a lot of work to do, but you just have to be able to do it. - Thank you.
