ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 7/2021 vp. The general debate was closed at the sitting on 26 May 2021. The draft amending budget will now be examined in detail.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u2	Finally, a motion of censure will be decided. In the debate, Ville Vähämäki ps Veikko Vallinin, supported by ps, has put forward the following proposal for a motion of censure to the Government: ‘The government has delayed its execution of the event and implemented it as too thin and poorly targeted. This is why the Government does not enjoy the confidence of both the field of events and the parliament.”
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u3	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, Mr Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u4	Mr President! About a year ago, when the media started marketing the corona... [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u7	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u8	Madam President! Today we are dealing with the amendment of Article 58d of the Act on communicable diseases and the temporary amendment of the Act on communicable diseases. In fact, we have had a number of debates on this, and in a few moments, Mr Laiho, the chairman of the committee of the delegation, will present our statements and our presentations to this effect, but what I myself asked for is a large amount of feedback which has now come with regard to these restrictions on restaurants. Last week, when the Marin government made these tightening ups in the restaurant squares, the restaurants were told that this review would take place at least weekly. Yesterday, the restaurant industry expected information on whether these restrictions would continue, whether they could be reduced regionally or modified, but nothing was done. No message was given to the restaurant industry about these restrictions. The previous week was promised that this assessment will be carried out once a week and will be communicated to the restaurant sector. This is completely unreasonable for this industry, which has already experienced a great deal of experience in tourism and restaurants. Today, for example, Parliament voted on a proposal from the Finns of Peru, in which the government would be required to correct the time-based restrictions imposed on food nutrition conditions to be more moderate. This presentation, which was made by the Finns of Finland and also supported by the Coalition Party here, would have given food restaurants the right to remain open until 23 years ago, and the liquor store should have been allowed to continue to give to 20. Now these restrictions, which are maintained by this left-wing government, mean that our restaurants are practically unable to open up at all. And when you do not, my dear government, hold to the promise that once a week you will assess these limitations, I understand the anger that exists in this restaurant business. I hope that even Finnish workers and entrepreneurs can trust the Marin government that what is publicly reported will continue to be kept. Your employment policy, your policy towards workers and entrepreneurs, is totally unreasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u9	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u10	Mr President! For the assembly, it is important to create a view and predictability in moving towards a normal place for entrepreneurs. This proposal, which is now to be decided, does not take into account the improved disease situation, the self-monitoring measures taken by restaurant and sports entrepreneurs, the coverage of vaccination and the overall health and damage to the economy and to the future. The duration of this proposal is disproportionately long and the proposed law bundles under the same law too many sectors without looking at them more closely. The restrictions on indoors are too severe in relation to the disease situation and will continue to discipline both the restaurant and the sports and well-being sectors unduly. The content of the Act also affects the opportunities of the event sector to organise events. As Mr Heinonen has rightly pointed out here, the regulations have been interpreted far too firmly and these many restrictions are excessive. Have they really been necessary, timely and proportionate? No, they haven't. That is why this proposal cannot be accepted as it stands, because the Government does not interpret it in the manner required by its content. We have objected in the meeting and include the following statements: ‘1.The Commission requires the Government to ensure that undertakings are reduced in relation to the damage ‘2 )The Commission requires the Government to give priority to the closure of its customer premises “ ‘3 )Department requires that the Act on Occupational Infectious Diseases58§ The reform of the section should be initiated as a matter of urgency in order to ensure the accuracy and proportionality of the various public events and the restriction measures taken by the professional event industry and the implementation of the Constitution in current and future pandemics." ‘4 )The Commission requires the government to take into account the different types of restaurants in — This has already been stated in the law, but, among other things, this has not been complied with. ‘5 )The Commission requires the Government to ensure that a decision on absconding decision to severely restrict the economy is ‘6 )The Commission requires the Government to prepare a proposal which allows for a deviation from ‘7 ) The Parliament requires that the board take into account a person’s corona certificate of disease, corona vaccination protection or a recent test result and should take into account the extent and severity of the restrictions and speed of its introduction.’ ‘8 ) Parliament shall require the Government to ensure that communication is up-to-date and that any future restrictive measures are communicated in a timely and clear manner.” ‘9 )The Commission requires the Government to correct as an urgentrestrictionrecommendations and regulations that restaurant,sport and cultural actors be able to carry out their The limitation measures shall be limited to the minimum necessary.’; In the past, we have also tabled an amendment to the paragraph relating to the criterion of the number of cases in relation to the exclusion measures, but it did not succeed in this Chamber. In addition, we have supported the amendment of the article tabled by the True Finns to the effect that this law would be in force until 30 September. There was no support for that either. Mr President! We have a lot of proposals for statements, which indicates that this law is unclear and is not proportionate and precise and needs to be improved. Above all, this is not appropriate to this current epidemic situation and is over-exploited.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u11	The debate and the debate will be suspended in the light of the meeting of the large committee. The plenary session will be adjourned and resumed at 3 p.m. at the end of the major committee meeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u12	The sitting adjourned at 1.29 p.m. and the debate on the 4th item of the order of business will now resume. — There was a debate and the next speech, Mr Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u13	Madam President! Korona is a serious matter. The impact on companies is also serious. True Finns want to help Finnish entrepreneurs and also restaurant entrepreneurs. It feels bad when the government puts EUR 4 and a half billion as a gift to other countries. If so, however, these countries did not manage their finances well, but we are punished for having the money go there. And this money could, in principle, have been used for the benefit of entrepreneurs in such a way — if you think we have 180,000 self-employed persons — that out of four and a half billion of them would have been sufficient for every single entrepreneur. It would have been possible to hire the first employee, this would have been a lot of relief. But restaurant companies are indeed suffering a great deal from this and especially now from these legislation and also from the amendments to the Act on communicable diseases. That is why the Finns have thought about such statements, which the government could also support, as they are a bit like relief for the everyday lives of entrepreneurs. So I shall now make statements in response to our objections. There's a lot of them. The first is this: ‘The Commission requires that the government take account of the different types of infection of different (2) ‘The Commission requires that the government does not impose restrictions on external premises which are (3) ‘The Commission requires that the government does not impose restrictions on food restaurants which are (4) ‘The Commission requires the Government to clarify the different risks of infection in and out of the restaurant’s activities in the internal and 5) ‘The Commission requires that government-manufactured sectors which are subject to limited activity are subject to an adequate scale of support model, which takes And I hope that the government will support these good ideas of ours. True, Finns want to support a Finnish entrepreneur. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u14	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u15	Mr President! First of all, I would like to support the statements made by Mr Reijonen, who spoke against the Finns of Peru. The Government’s proposal under discussion will continue the fixed-term amendments to the Act on Diseases until the end of the year. These changes concern, inter alia, restaurants, the cultural and event sectors, the sports sector and transport operators. These industries have been severely disciplined for over a year and thousands of entrepreneurs and their employees have suffered. It seems that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is single eyed only by the statistics on infection and does not give any thought to the economic and employment impact of the restrictions. Mr President! Today, more than half, to be precise, 51.7 % of our 16-year-old population has already been vaccinated. Incidence rates are falling: only 47.4 in the whole country, 64 in the hospital and 20 in intensive care. In five regions the incidence is less than 10 and in ten less than 20. At this rate in early autumn, the first vaccination has been carried out by all those willing and the second round of vaccination has already reached an advanced stage. However, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health does not seem to take into account either the progression of vaccinations or the significant decrease in incidence rates. Both the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have repeatedly stressed the need for and the need for restrictions. The government doesn't give a shit about this. The situation of the sectors, entrepreneurs and their employees affected by the restrictions has been a source of concern to the government on a number of occasions, including the opposition, the experts heard by the committees, as well as the entrepreneurs and workers themselves and their representative organisations. In Finland, the livelihoods of thousands of people have been weakened for months, even if the risks are minimal. Most of the infections occur in the family circle, not in restaurants or gyms. Mr President! I appeal to the MPs of the government parties, who are not very many here today: do not shut your ears to the plight of entrepreneurs and their workers. Now you have the opportunity to vote in favour of these statements and to show that you understand the need for restaurants, sports, culture and events. Even if you do not provide them with recovery money when all the money has already been distributed to Europe, you can help them even by allowing them to work in peace. That is what the majority of entrepreneurs and their employees in this situation would need most, the opportunity to return to work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u16	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u17	Mr President! Although the measures taken to limit the epidemic in themselves are necessary and desirable, now that the situation has lengthened to this point, that this legislation is now being extended for almost two years from the beginning of the epidemic itself, there should be some reasonableness involved. It is, however, a fundamental right to pursue a business and work. They are, in principle, the right to do so, and if society intends to restrict those rights, there must be grounds for such restrictions and they must be precise and proportionate in relation to the risk they are combating. It is now apparent that these restrictions are not in proportion to the risk they are countering. There are notable, good practical ideas in the statements of the True Finns and also of the Coalition Party as to how these actions could be moderated in such a way that they would not unduly restrict the freedom to pursue a business. In particular, I would draw attention to the words “the risk of spreading evidence”. Now I do not know what kind of evidence the government has had in the first place that these infections would spread in certain high-risk events, such as restaurants or gyms. Are they restricted, just in case, to show that something is being done, or has there been any real medical evidence that it is in these events and conditions that these infections would spread? At least, in my opinion, no such evidence has been presented to Parliament. In the future, therefore, the accuracy of these, or at some point the situation will be that these restrictions cannot even be considered acceptable and cannot be justified. Now, however, an alternative has been presented to the government as to how to act, in these statements, so there is no point in saying that the alternative has not been presented. It's been shown.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u18	Congressman Rydman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u19	Madam President! I support the nine motions for statements tabled by Mr Laiho before the sitting was suspended. In view of the fact that many of them deal with subjects, themes and presentations that have been supported by the representatives of the government parties, at least in their public speeches, there is also a great opportunity for the government to demonstrate in practical terms that these measures are also ready to be taken in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u20	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u21	Madam President! Many entrepreneurs are now amazed and confused and confused about how to proceed. I would, however, like to see more information being provided because entrepreneurs do not know how to be open. There are restaurant entrepreneurs out there. There's feedback. Gym entrepreneurs are amazed at when to be open. Nowhere — on the news or elsewhere — does it say properly what the restrictions are, how to be open, how to take customers. Customers do not know when to go to a restaurant, at what time they are open and in which area. It's a good thing the MPs don't know what's going on. In fact, information is absolutely essential. He'd like to be invested in it. This importance of information has been raised from the outset, but unfortunately it has not been very effective in my opinion. I hope that the government will make a real contribution to this information. Entrepreneurs need to know, and entrepreneurs' customers need to know where they're going and where they're going. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u22	Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u23	Madam President! Good speeches have been made here, and good statements have also been made on the part of both the National Coalition Party and the People's Party. For a very long time now, interest has been rampant in the country, and that is why these changes have also been made here in the legislation on infectious diseases. But at the time when the disease started to rage and these laws and restrictions were made, there was also a serious debate as to whether these restrictions could also be lifted when the possibility came, quickly enough and clearly enough. And, as has been said many times here, the restrictions must be precise and proportionate in relation to the situation. And yes, it must also be said from the point of view of the health care professional that the situation has changed to such an extent when we begin to think of these restrictions and their continuation that they are no longer proportionate to the situation. We have a much better disease situation and, however, information has been provided to the public, and the idea – and I hope this will continue to be the case during the summer weeks – is that citizens will understand their own responsibilities and their actions, including that they do not spread the disease and minimise the risk that they themselves will receive it. However, these summer weeks and months are quite short. At the same time as we are thinking of the entrepreneurs, the restaurants, the gym operator and, on the other hand, the activities of the citizens, I can see that this is precisely where the restrictions are too strict and they go on for too long. In that sense, I would really like, as has been argued by the previous speakers, to see that the government would agree to look at these time limits and, likewise, to allow the opening hours and other restrictions to be relaxed. It is very important when citizens have tried to cope with the corona and to follow the guidelines, that when the time comes for these restrictions to be relaxed, the restrictions will be loosened, the government will also be able to act. And when it came to this earlier before the sitting was interrupted, how has it been promised that the matter would be evaluated weekly and, indeed, clearly informed not only to entrepreneurs, but also to keep the public on track — but above all, of course to entrepreneurs — then there has been no promised assessment and review of the situation and the loosening of restrictions on the part of the government, on the part of the Government. In other words, I would like to see this responsibility now also on the part of the government and sufficiently prompt action to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u24	Congressman Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u25	Madam President! The restrictive measures that we have taken in Finland with a very broad consensus here in Parliament have been reasonably correct and timely. Finland has been better able to cope with the corona in both economic and health terms than most other countries. But the crucial question is also how we are going to break these restrictions when they have been bitten and, at the same time, we are going to have to be able to get more vaccine coverage all the time, and we also have to be able to open up society. And that is also why our laws must live in time, that unfortunately the corona is likely to remain in society, that it can rise from time to time in small clusters, and that legislation must be capable of reacting in a regional and precise manner. I have become quite legitimately critical of the fact that the restrictive measures have in some respects been uneven, unbalanced. For example, the cultural and event sectors have been most affected by these restrictive measures and have not been in balance with, for example, restrictions on restaurants. Now this legislative package will make this situation a little easier. I agree with the view that we must be able to look at the situation every week and open up more events, culture and restaurants, and also regionally. The aim here is to ensure that this regional entity is taken into account through the openings. At the same time, we must say that the aids have been quite cautious here too, and hopefully they will also re-evaluate the restrictive measures that have now been announced until mid-June. There are some that I think could be loosened in this situation. Mr Reijonen raised an important point in my view, this information and an understanding of the area in which restrictions are in progress. Mr Reijonen said that it may be difficult to keep track of the representatives. That's right. I myself have often wondered how the time restrictions in restaurants are now here in Helsinki, whether you can still eat or whether you have to pick up when you have come from this Parliament or some of the events. I think that this is very important for the authorities to be able to communicate very accurately regionally about it so that everyone knows where the restrictions are. It may not be so much a government can do, but it is precisely the regional authorities that have to do it. This legislation will now open up some of Finland. I would encourage the health safety of the sector to be opened up as quickly as possible, both in the field of events and in the cultural sector and in restaurants.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u26	Fourteen draft statements have been made during the debate, so we must vote on this. In the debate, Mr Turtiainen has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected. Since Mr Turtiainen's proposal has not been supported, it lapses. The votes will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and proceedings shall be adjourned for 10 minutes and the session shall resume at 3.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u27	The sitting adjourned at 3:18 p.m. and the 4th item on the agenda are now resumed. In the debate, Minna Reijonen, supported by Juha Mäenpää, has tabled five motions for statements under protest 1 and Mia Laiho Wille, supported by Rydman, has tabled nine proposals for statements under protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-05-28-ps-67.u28	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. The first Vice-President, Tarja Filatov, has asked to be relieved of the role of the first Vice-President. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
