ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. The matter was put on the table today at the plenary session on 19 October 2021, to be held today at the second plenary session on 19 October 2021. — The debate continues. First of all, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u2	Mr President, värderade talman! Thank you for this opportunity. Things don’t always work out the way they planned, and this morning it was a surprise that I couldn’t get on the plane — they had to switch to a smaller plane, and there were others left on the beach — but good this way. The government's proposal proposes a regulation to allow for the dissolution of a forced marriage by abolishing it. This is a significant change, as under the current marriage law, all divorce cases are treated as divorces. Revocation would be an alternative to divorce by forcing the marriage to be dissolved. Forced marriage means that a marriage mate has not made a decision to marry of his own free will but has been made by another person. You could apply for annulment by a spouse who has been forced into marriage. The starting point for marriage is that marriage is made on the free will of both spouses. The regulation of the annulment of a forced marriage is an important signal that our legal order does not accept a forced marriage.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u3	Mr President! The Minister has decided precisely what the government, of course, wants with this message above all: our society does not accept such forced marriages. This proposal is very welcome and it has been expected, and we have already had some time here today to start the debate briefly. In this respect, this cancellation/refusal/retirement gap emerged. Some organisations have suggested that this victim of forced marriage could choose between them, but I would ask the Minister's position: is it a little confusing if we went into such a system? However, I think that the most important thing now is to propose this repeal, because then, as the Minister said, these specific legal aspects will be realised. I understand that, as I have heard, criminalisation and the debate on it have also been paved up in the Ministry. Is there anything more to tell?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u4	Thank you. — Mr Keto-Hovinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister Henriksson, and thank you to the Minister for hurrying here to present the government proposal as soon as the legal obstacle has been removed. Indeed, the government is proposing that provisions be added to the marriage law to allow for the compulsory termination of the marriage by abolishing it. I believe that this is an important proposal to protect girls and women and to strengthen women's rights in society. It is therefore particularly important to ensure that the proposal also actually improves the status of victims. Until now, forced marriage in Finland has in practice had to be dissolved in the same way as other marriages. In addition, forced marriage has not been criminalised in Finland, although forced marriage can become a criminal offence within the framework of our current legislation as trafficking in human beings, aggravated trafficking in human beings or coercion. Furthermore, it is proposed to amend the Marriage Act so that a marriage entered into abroad as a minor is recognised only for a special reason if at least one of the spouses was resident in Finland at the time of the marriage. Finland is committed to the Istanbul Convention to prevent violence against women and domestic violence, and Article 32 requires States to ensure that forced marriages can be annulled, annulled or dissolved without imposing an excessive financial or administrative burden on victims. This objective is promoted by the government’s proposal that the legal effects of marriage annulment are otherwise the same as in divorce but that marital status is restored to the one that the marriage partner had before forced marriage. Mr President! However, I do not believe that the possibility of abolishing forced marriage is sufficient to safeguard the status and rights of those who have been forced into marriage, but that the proposal should also have allowed the annulment of the marriage, which would have allowed the victim to choose the best alternative to his or her own life situation, according to which one of them best protects the victim. Marriage has significant legal effects, including financial and child status. With regard to the duration of forced marriage, the annulment of the Government’s proposal would have the same effect as divorce, with the exception of the restoration of marital status in the pre-marriage period. In my view, a better exercise of the rights of girls and women would have included the possibility of annulment of marriage, which would remove the legal effects of marriage retroactively. Indeed, this would have allowed the victim of forced marriage to choose between divorce, annulment and annulment according to the solution that best safeguards the victim’s position. The government’s own entry in the Government Programme also starts with the possibility of enabling the annulment of forced marriages: ‘Possibility of making marriages compulsory and of establishing thecrimination of their marriages. “ I do not think that the government, with its proposal, is following its own record. Why? Mr President! Another essential flaw in the motion is that it does not directly involve the criminalisation of forced marriages. Enough opportunities to break up forced marriage is only part of the solution. In fact, the root causes of the problem are found in forced marriage, which would require separate criminalisation of forced marriages. As I said earlier, forced marriage in Finland can become a criminal offence under the current legislation as trafficking in human beings, as a serious trafficking in human beings or as a coercion. However, the current legislation on trafficking in human beings does not currently cover all forms of forced marriage. Forced, on the other hand, is the crime of the plaintiff, which means that the victim is responsible for initiating the criminal procedure. The prosecution therefore requires a petition from the plaintiff or, for example, that a very important public interest requires prosecution, so that the prosecutor can prosecute. For a vulnerable victim of forced marriage, this may be impossible, as the threshold for committing forced marriage is high and involves complex dependencies. In many cases, the victim does not even have a real opportunity to report it, because the possibilities for the victim to act are very limited. I would like to ask, Mr Henriksson, why has the government put forward a proposal which does not allow for the annulment of forced marriage or for the criminalisation of forced marriage? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u6	Thank you. — Mr Kivisaari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u7	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. You have had a little flight adventure today, and a little respect for you, but also for Parliament: glad you could make it. Indeed, we have already been warmed up today, and in the last plenary session we also heard many praises from the opposition for the motion. Let me start with the obvious: marriage is made of the free will of both spouses. We all understand this very clearly. Unfortunately, the same brightness is not everywhere, so it is wise that the message of our legislation is also clear. The regulation of the annulment of a forced marriage is a state of will that our legal order does not consent artificially or to an untenable forced marriage. Unfortunately, this is happening and, of course, we cannot stand by and watch it. The possibility of marriage being forced to dissolve is also important, except for divorce. If the marital status is marked as ‘divided’,seeioikeinlets the real picture of reality. I also believe that the annulment of a marriage is also in the best interests of a child born with legal effects, at least more honest. Of course, the bigger question is how to avoid these forced marriages. The bill is a partial answer, but of course it does not go to root causes. President! At least as sensitive is the recognition of a marriage entered into abroad as a minor, which is also a difficult matter. The minimum age for marriage in Finland is 18 years. The change specifies the attitude towards underage marriages, when at least one of the parties had a connection to Finland on the basis of their place of residence at the time of the marriage. So if I understand the bill correctly, a person who has entered into a marriage abroad as a minor who has turned 18 and wants the marriage to be recognised in Finland may receive recognition for a particularly serious reason. These reasons may include, for example, a common child, and recognition of the union is also considered to be in the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u10	Thank you. - Congressman Kempp, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u11	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for being able to show respect for this law. It is proposed that this paragraph be added to the Marriage Act, which allows for the compulsory termination of the marriage by abolishing it. There can be no ‘divided’ in human papers if there is no desire to marry. You get married on your own. I'll leave you there. It is an important human rights issue. I believe that this proposal will improve the rights of girls and women, but the reality shows that men have also been victims of forced marriages. There is a record in the Government Programme of enabling the annulment of forced marriages, and thank the Minister for making progress in this respect. I was asked how common this is. Many Finns have not met anyone who has been forced to marry. The numbers are not large, but the situations are particularly serious violations of human rights. Moreover, it is worrying that forced marriages have been observed in Finland to an increasing extent in recent years. In 2019 52 persons were admitted as clients to help victims of trafficking in human beings who were estimated to have been forced into forced marriage. This was more than twice as much as one year earlier. This is particularly worrying. It is also particularly heavy that many of these forced marriages have been made on these lists when the other spouse is underage. I do not think that such questions can be ignored in Finland. According to various studies, situations where a girl with an immigrant background is usually sent abroad and married to a man living abroad are increasingly identified in Finland. I know a girl like this, too. It should be recognised that forced marriages are not only linked to immigration, however, but also within our borders. So we cannot just look abroad and say that the phenomenon comes from there or is there, but it is also our own business. Of course, identifying the victims of forced marriage is challenging, which is certainly the reason why this has not yet been addressed with sufficient intensity. The victim may come to the attention of the authorities, for example, when dealing with individual assaults, and requires cross-sectoral identification to enable us to address the issue. The characteristics of forced marriage are largely similar to domestic violence, where Finland also has something to improve. Thank you, Minister, for taking this government's proposal forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u12	Thank you. — Representative Virta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u13	Mr President! It is quite clear, as we have heard in this Chamber, that no one should under any circumstances be forced into marriage. It is extremely important that we have a debate today on this serious issue — a subject on which we might want to close our eyes, something that we cannot do. It is incredibly important that the government has prepared this legislative amendment aimed at placing the rights of the victim at the heart of the matter. Thank you to the Minister for the presentation of the legislative amendment and thank you to the whole government for taking a clear line on equality and human rights in the absence of such forced marriages, among other things. It is the only right line and a strong message that we do not accept any form of exploitation or violence in this society. However, a strong message has come from the field that a person who has been forced into marriage should be allowed to decide for himself whether he wants divorce, annulment or annulment. There is a risk that the annulment of a marriage alone may not be sufficient to safeguard the rights of a person forced into a marriage. It is therefore important that we should also be able to cancel the marriage, and I personally hope that further efforts will be made to evaluate and possibly include this possibility of annulment in the parliamentary procedure. At the same time, it is important to ensure that the dissolution of a marriage is genuinely possible in practice. This requires, for example, that the display threshold is low enough and that those forced into marriage have access to information and legal assistance. Ensuring free legal assistance is essential. The most important thing is that we genuinely safeguard the rights of the person who has been forced into marriage, but also the rights of potential children. It is important to take into account that the custody and access rights of children born in forced marriage may also be associated with features that do not appear in other divorce situations. The handling and resolution of these matters require special expertise and must be at the heart of the proceedings whenever children are born in forced marriage. It should also be noted that similar challenging issues related to the rights of the child arise even in situations where forced marriage ends in divorce rather than annulment of marriage. I would also like to ask the Minister of State: could you please open this child's point of view further in this Chamber? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u14	Thank you. — Representative Said Ahmed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u15	Mr President! It is particularly good that Parliament is discussing the government's proposal to ban forced marriages today, because yesterday was the day against trafficking in human beings in the EU. Forced marriage is one of the forms of trafficking in human beings. Compulsive marriages are, fortunately, a rather rare phenomenon, but even more shocking. Particularly shocking is the fact that some forced marriages target children. The government's proposal is an important signal that our legal system should not be accepted by forced marriage. The motion does not yet contain any articles on the criminalisation of forced marriage, but we hope, in accordance with the government's programme, that this proposal will be brought forward during this parliamentary term. The most important thing is that the presentation improves the status of the victim forced into marriage, and the presentation enables us to identify the situations of forced marriage by listening extensively to the victims and seeking their freedom. Freedom is an important human right and provides the basis for a good life. Thank you to human rights organisations and human rights activists for the work they have done on this issue!
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u16	Thank you. — Minister Henriksson, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u17	Mr President! Thank you all for your very important contributions. — We do not know how many forced marriages there are in Finland each year, but we know that there are, and that is why this legislation is needed. The question has been raised as to why no cancellation has been included. I'm trying to find out why. This was in a broad consultation and, on the basis of the feedback received, it was concluded that the dissolution of the marriage by cancelling it would provide better protection for those who were forced into marriage and his potential children. In other words, it is about providing better legal protection. The nullity of marriage means that all legal effects of marriage will cease retroactively, and the position of the person forced into marriage and his child would in most cases become very weak after annulment. So that's why we've come to this line of annulment. In a sense, it was also seen from the feedback that, if we also include annulment, this legislation will become terribly confusing. If there were the possibility of divorce under current law, annulment or annulment, this would at least lead to a very confused legal situation. It was therefore concluded that annulment is being proposed, since it is better than annulment to safeguard the legal position of both its coercion and his potential children. Then there is also the question of this separate criminalization: Mr Keto-Huovinen has gone through this with great merit, which is the state of play in today's legislation. At the moment, we are making the assessment now in the Ministry of Justice that separate criminalisation is needed or not. That's the kind of investigation that's going on. The review report will be ready soon and, once completed, it will also be sent to opinions. I'm not the one who excludes separate criminalization. I see that this is a serious matter, and I see that it is very important that we also make it clear in all respects that forced marriage is not accepted in Finland, and if necessary, some form of separate criminalization may also be involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u18	Thank you. — Representative Kivelä is absent — representative of Estonia, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u19	Mr President! Forced marriage is a repulsive phenomenon and we, as legislators, must do everything in our power to prevent such violations of human rights in the future. However, we must look at this phenomenon in a comprehensive way, and that is why I see that this dismantling is only part of the solution. The Federation of Women's Organisations and Monika-Women have criticised the fact that this should include the possibility of annulment and also criminalisation. When you, Minister, said in your presentation that these people are vulnerable, they are victims, do we believe in this Chamber that the victims will be able to prosecute? I don't believe it. And I was happy to listen to your comment on this possible separate criminalization. I very much hope, Mr Henriksson, that this working group will conclude its report quickly and that we will be able to improve the status of victims. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u20	Congressman Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u21	Mr President! First of all, I would like to publicly thank the Ministry of Justice for receiving a Government report on justice, the first of its kind, which will come next autumn. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has made a very strong point about this, and now it is finally coming to fruition. I looked at this report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, on which this was probably also a very positive step in the last period, and which states that forced marriage is a marriage that has been entered into contrary to the consent of another, and that underage marriage is often treated as forced marriage, because there are many child marriages among forced marriages. This is really sad, and it's actually kind of creepy. This report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has raised this issue of criminal law. GREVIO, the expert group of the Council of Europe, has said, among other things, that this should be a separate criminalisation, but it is good that you are investigating this, because the Committee on Legal Affairs has pointed out that forced marriage is already punishable in Finland — under the provisions on trafficking in human beings, serious trafficking in human beings and coercion. In other words, we should not create criminal law if it is punishable otherwise, and it is good that you will find out. This same debate is taking place, among other things, in connection with the target. It is often said that there is a need to criminalize the target, and then, when you look at the criminal law, there is an illegal threat, coercion, persecution, defamation, and so on, so on, so on. It is often a question of whether they want to be used and whether there is evidence, but if there are gaps here, then I am happy to support criminalisation. With regard to that annulment and even the wish of the assembly that a person could choose for himself, we have all admitted here that this is a minor person, and it has been pointed out in these recent speeches from the ranks of the assembly that it is fair to see whether a person dares to take up this application. And yes, I am thinking that if he is going to choose whether it is nullification or dissolution, then I do think the pressure is on him to ‘requirement,because you have the right to a marriage and the responsibility to give birth to children,and if a man dies in the middle of the process, then he could have had a chance to live in a nest or even a marriage’. I do believe that the pressure would be heavy to demand even that you apply for annulment. That's what I believe. I personally feel that it is very good that it is a cancellation, because then all these possibilities will be open. And this situation of the child: if you think that she is a married child, as has been stated here in the government proposal, there would be huge legal gaps in this, and even if there were no children, it is precisely this, often the position of a woman, that then she would not have the right to a marriage or perhaps the right to a living, and even if the estate had the right to a maintenance. There are many, many problems here. In fact, I would have asked the Minister: why did this come about? I find this evidence challenging, the fact that the applicant has it. Would it have been possible to think the other way around whether this came up in the preparation? So the assumption would be that if a person is a minor, the assumption is that it is a forced marriage unless the other party shows that it has been voluntary. Have we considered this type of burden of proof? Of course, we can think about it in the Legal Committee, but it is a rather fundamental change. I'm just thinking about it to make it easier for that screen, and when it's got that family pressure on it. Did this come up? Then I would ask why this was omitted, for example, that the prosecutor should have been the one who could have applied for this withdrawal on behalf of the minor. Or is it the intention to apply for some type of lobbyist, or is it the idea that this minor is now acting alone with his assistant alone, or should he even have a guardian? There may be a family under great pressure and pressure so that this assignment to the assistant will then be so authentic — this representation I am thinking about. Then there were the speeches here for these root reasons. And I would have asked — and I did not see it in this government’s proposal — whether these stakeholders, or certain groups of cultural backgrounds, were consulted there? For example, when we had this citizens' initiative to mutilate girls, it was pointed out that it was terribly important that these particular groups and religious groups also communicate there in their own communities to eradicate this phenomenon, so that there were any of these in the hearings, and how could these root causes be removed? And how do they themselves intend to end this phenomenon if, however, they are connected to Finland and think they are in Finland? That this is what I was wondering about. And the last question I ask about that recognition of a foreign marriage is that is it now in Finland, whether I read this correctly, this threshold is lower than in other Nordic countries. In my view, from that government proposal, in Denmark, foreign marriage can only be recognised for persons under the age of 18 unless it is completely unreasonable, in an individual case, Sweden does not at all, in principle, unless, at the time of confirmation, the party has already turned 18, and Norway, on the other hand, requires a strong reason. I find this “special reason ” to be a time of lightness. Had it been considered that it should have been,for example,‘a special counterweight’,because we have this 18-year-old in principle? These are the questions, and I'm sure we in the Legal Committee are considering this, but here are my personal thoughts. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u22	Thank you. — Representative Kärnä, gone. Congressman Hyrkko, gone. — Mr Räsänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u23	Mr President! This proposal is indeed a step forward, and thank you to the Minister for this, but, as has already been mentioned here in the debate, the question remains as to how the person who has been coerced can actually take these repeals. This proposal states that the specific regulation on the dissolution of a forced marriage has, above all, a symbolic role to play in signalling that forced marriage is a violation of human rights. This is certainly true, but for a person who has been forced into a marriage, it is not only a symbolic matter but a matter of life as a whole, and that is precisely why legislation should also be in such a state that it genuinely helps these people. In this Western debate we may also be somewhat alienated from the importance of the institution of marriage in some communities. This is also the attitude of the communities in this proposal, and it is admitted that it is not quite certain whether the annulment actually has consequences for the position of the person who is forced to marry in the middle of this community or whether it is seen as equal to divorce. In order to abolish marriage, there must also be credible evidence of forced marriage, as Mrs Meri, the chairman of the Legal Committee, has just spoken of. This can become difficult when, obviously, the relationship has already included some element of coercion, pressure, or subjugation, either by the spouse or by the family or by someone else, in a way, divorce can be an easier and more risk-free process. But all these questions really need to be considered there in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. I would add that it is good that the regulation on the recognition of underage marriages abroad is tightened up here, but this proposal also states that there are a number of risks which would mean that in some circumstances the present situation could be undermined by the proposal, for example, if the marriage is not recognised in Finland and there is still a child, the presumption of paternity does not exist, which can then have far-reaching effects for this child. So we are talking about a rather complex whole here in any case. But thank you, Minister, for taking the matter in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u24	Thank you. — Ledamot Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u25	Irade the Talman! Vi har länge talat om behovet av sådan rai lagstiftning, och under den har regeringen får vi den gjord — det ska ministern ha tag för. Men lixom de bull discussionerna visar är det ju aldrig fråga om lätta saker. Det handlar om barn, det handlar om unga människor, det handlar om artenskap, det kan handla om våld och det är aldrig latt eller okplicerad lagstiftning.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u26	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen! This is an important government proposal and, as has been well mentioned in the debate, there is still much to think about in this House, and especially in its Committee on Legal Affairs. I myself would like to comment on one aspect of constitutional law in this regard. Some ten years ago, Finland had a lively debate on the prohibition of begging. I think that this refusal to beg would have been appropriate and would still be appropriate. It didn't make any progress at the time. Parliament never denied begging, and even the government did not in fact propose to prohibit begging, but to prohibit disturbing begging. The fact that the matter never progressed in Finland may have been influenced by the fact that a couple of our leading constitutional experts, Professors Martin Schein and Tuomas Ojanen, considered the ban on begging to be unconstitutional. The Helsingin Sanomat on 11 July 2010 wrote: ‘Remaining in Finland has a long history,but it is nowwanted to ban it all. According to legal scholars, the ban would be unconstitutional.’ Well, what do you mean? Well, in such a way that it is a matter of equality and that even if, according to these legal scholars, it would have been a ban on begging for everyone, in practice it would have meant a ban on begging, mainly from Bulgaria and Romania to the Roma who arrived in Finland. Well, this doctrine is that if a law is laid down and it actually concerns a minority, even though it formally applies to everyone, then the law would conflict with the requirement of equality in the Constitution — this doctrine is absolutely stupid. Even now, the government is preparing a separate criminalisation of female genital mutilation, which, of course, applies only to those people who come from these cultures. Furthermore, the government is currently preparing a reform of the Animal Protection Act, which would prohibit the practice of slaughter according to Islam and Jewish faith, which would in practice apply only to these minority groups in this respect. Now that we are looking at this government proposal and we are reading, for example, page 5 of it, it is clear from here — and it has also been shown in this debate — that this law essentially applies to foreigners or people of foreign origin in Finland. So, on this basis, is this present law discriminatory and incompatible with the rule of equality in the Constitution? Of course, there is not, and, for example, there is no reference to this in the order of the government's proposal, and I do not believe that there has been much discussion in the Ministry of Justice in this regard. I would therefore like to interpret that this proposal, as well as this proposal, means that this doctrine, which was attempted to launch in Finland in order to combat the ban on begging, is something that is not signed in Finland by the Ministry of Justice, the Government and hopefully not in the Constitutional Committee. This optimism also gives rise to a number of recent events: in the spring and early summer when the government discussed the so-called corona pass, there were legal scholars who felt that the provision of a corona pass would be incompatible with the rule of equality in the Constitution. Still others pointed out that if the alternative is a test but the test is not free for everyone, then at least this equality is at considerable risk. Fortunately, in its opinion on the so-called corona passport, the Constitutional Committee of the Parliament has not adopted these ideas at all. For example, the fact that this test should be free for all legal reasons did not receive any attention in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Also relevant is the fact that the government has decided that the reduction in pension income will be increased to encourage pensioners over 60 years of age to work. This was supposed to come into force from the beginning of next year, but now we have been told that it will only come into force from the beginning of the next year, because it will be accompanied by constitutional problems based on equality, because it will make such an age limit to tax legislation — a totally unfounded idea, in my opinion. Today, for example, we have an age limit for the stamp tax credit for first-time home buyers. An 18- to 39-year-old gets that refund, but a person who's older doesn't. The sum summarum, Minister Henriksson — who is also a distinguished member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — I hope that these overly strict constitutional interpretations in general and the equality studies, especially those which Finnish constitutional experts like to do, will receive the treatment and fate they deserve, i.e. that they will not be associated with them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u27	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u28	Mr President! Minister, it is wonderful that you have come here to hear our questions. With interest I look forward to whether you can answer my question — I will try to pave the way for it in moderation. So we're talking about the dissolution of a forced marriage. This is a good bill and takes us in the right direction, but there is a clear contradiction in the government bill. Mr President! There is a lot of talk about the rights of girls and women in the draft law on forced marriage. The debate has also raised the issue of annulment and criminalisation of marriage, and there is no time limit for the dissolution of forced marriage, which in itself is a good thing. That's good. However, in the government's proposal on paternity law, there was a deadline for the abolition of paternity. A father forced into fatherhood may be in a vulnerable position, and in such a situation of abuse the victim does not have the opportunity to break the coercion. Minister, in your proposal on paternity law, the Finnish judiciary allows for the imposition of paternity, which is at least as serious a human rights violation as forced marriages. Minister, what is your justification for the government's proposal to allow compulsoryity with deadlines? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u29	Thank you. — Congressman Tanus, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u30	Mr President! Thank you very much to the Minister for this proposal, which has been expected for a very long time, and also for coming to us in spite of the hardships that have occurred, to give and listen to questions. Forced marriages are a really sad process that not only happens abroad, but also goes abroad from Finland and is forced to marry, and as has already been said in the debate, this is unfortunately happening here in Finland within our borders too. The abolition of forced marriage or this divorce and, in parallel, the possibility of annulment — and I also wonder why it was not included in this motion, but I think that the Minister there opened very well, which is why he did so, and of course the Committee on Legal Affairs is still looking into it in its deliberations. I thought that, overall, this proposal is of course a step forward, but when we think of the abolition of forced marriage, we will have to wonder how the forced person will actually be able to take these reversal measures. There is, however, a clear situation here that credible evidence of forced marriage must be provided in order to cancel the marriage. I would like to ask the Minister: what kind of debate, what kind of reflection did you have, how real are the chances of this evidence being presented for coercion? However, since in many situations there are elements of coercion, pressure, repression both inside and outside of marriage, I would like to hear from the minister how you think in practice what kind of evidence it would take. Then, of course, I think it is a very good thing to tighten up the regulation of the recognition of underage marriages abroad. However, these risks, what could be involved, for example, if a child has been born into that family, what are the rights of that child, if the marriage is not recognised in Finland and the paternity presumption is no longer, for example: how have you thought about this situation, and how in these circumstances would you instruct in order to ensure that the rights of the child and, on the other hand, the status of the child who has been married abroad — often in the case of young girls — are safeguarded here in Finland in the future? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u31	Thank you. — Mr Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u32	Mr President! The Minister had not asked to speak. However, he may have been answering these speeches and questions. However, I would like to get some answers from him, if possible, to the following questions: When you have brought this proposal here — and that is good — and when this in practice concerns mainly foreigners or people of foreign origin and when you are preparing, in accordance with the will of the Parliament, for a separate criminalisation of female genital mutilation, does this mean that you in the Ministry of Justice do not accept the unjustified doctrine which the aforementioned constitutional experts then launched in Finland ten years ago, and which, therefore, was the fact that, even if the bill concerned only certain minority groups, in practice, such a bill is discrimination prohibited by the Constitution? The second question, which I hope you will also be able to comment on, is going to pass a little bit, but nevertheless. In the spring debate on the corona passport, when you personally and the Ministry of Justice, too, apparently more widely, saw that there were considerable constitutional problems with it — which may have delayed the introduction of this passport, which, in my opinion, was the worst failure of the government in the corona activities, where the government has also had a lot of successes — is it now the case that, in the Ministry of Justice, which you are leading — in view of these overly strict interpretations of the Constitution by Finnish constitutional scholars, in general and of equality, in particular, which the overly tense interpretations differ from what is considered in other European countries and where these prohibitions of discrimination are also in force — are now being viewed by these legal scholars and, I would say, with reasonable suspicion of opinions? I am also asking because, for example, in the Committee on Administrative Affairs, where I am involved, I have noticed that officials from the Ministry of Justice, many of whom are students of these high-strung constitutional interpretations, unfortunately often see constitutional problems in matters where there are no constitutional problems in other European countries and where it is difficult to see or slow down the process of making sensible reforms in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u33	Thank you. — Minister Henriksson had asked to speak. Let us now give the floor, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I had asked for the floor, Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u37	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u38	Mr President! There has been a lot in public about this kind of person who has wanted to deny paternity. He too has had a lot of problems and would probably need help from some organizations or others. But, Minister, in your proposal on paternity law, the Finnish judiciary allows for the imposition of parental responsibility, which is at least as serious a violation of human rights as forced marriages. I would like to ask you again, Minister, what is your justification for the government's proposal to impose this kind of ban on fatherhood with deadlines? Why can it not be that the deadline is abolished? Minister, I am sure you know that I refer to this public matter of paternity law, in which the father has learned that he is not the father of the child, just before this deadline expires. He has been in a weak position then, his world has collapsed. He is not the father of that little boy or the father of the little girl — I do not know which one is there. I think there is a clear contradiction here that forced marriage can be dissolved at any time, there is no time limit. Yes, this paternity law should have the same right to dismantle it when it turns out that he is not the father of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u39	I now give the floor briefly to Mr Henriksson on this matter. Then I will say that this law on forced marriage is now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u40	It's very brief. As the representative knows, the Parenthood Act is now before the Legal Committee. We in this Chamber cannot deal with a single case, the court will deal with cases. This new Parenthood Act assumes that one year after finding out that the father is not the father of the child, one can bring an action for the dissolution of paternity. And there is always a chance for the child, when the child has reached the age of 18, to sue for it. I do not think that these things should be confused with each other, Mr Mäenpää. It is extremely important that something can be done about forced marriages. It has nothing to do with the paternity and parental law, both of which are about strengthening and improving legal protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u41	Thank you. — Congressman Tanus, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u42	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Indeed, a multi-professional approach is needed to find, on the one hand, the victims of trafficking in human beings and, on the other hand, those who are forced to marry, but also to help them. That is a very complex problem. I would have liked to ask the Minister again when, in your introductory speech, you have already touched on that separate question of criminalisation. Of course, if we think of forced marriage as a whole as a process or event, a sad, very deeply touching event, then it is very good that we get the law that we can abolish forced marriage, perhaps that divorce there as an opportunity. I would have liked to ask why, in a certain way, this separate criminalisation was not brought more clearly into this already. However, I think that we should not only seek an opportunity, as it were, to deal with an unfortunate issue, i.e. to abolish forced marriage, but also to prevent such events. And would it not then, if this kind were clearly criminalized, give an even stronger signal and, as it were, be a much greater warning sign? I would think, though, that people would perhaps think a second time, when there was such a fear — I would say that fear that this is a criminalized event — and, in this sense, would it not be a stronger method to act as a deterrent than a mere possibility of annulment?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u43	Thank you. — Mr Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Your reply time was, Minister, limited, and I would like to ask for the committee's consideration: was this the age of one who would give evidence of the voluntary nature, even in the debate? It would certainly have facilitated and facilitated the evidence that it would not be for this minor, but would be for the full-scale one who then gives some kind of proof that it is voluntary and, of course, that the burden of proof could vary. But here it is precisely that submissive person, and then there may be many kinds of pressure. I was talking about why I prefer annulment myself, because if there was an annulment or annulment in it, then there could also be pressure to apply for that annulment, then our family will not have to pay you anything, at least under the law of marriage. I understand, that was certainly good for the prosecutors, that they cannot represent, but it must then be considered that perhaps there might be someone there who might be involved in the process. Just a few more questions: Was there a discussion with these foreign associations or religious associations about how they could help with this root cause? So is there a message that this is reprehensible and if these things appear, then they would support such people so that they dare take these into the process? It is very important that it should also be brought up in the communities there, so that it is not just a problem that comes out of a particular culture, and then the rest of us deal with the problem in such a way that they have been outsourced. I also believe that they must be involved in solving this problem, not just that we here together are wondering how it will be removed from society. Perhaps even from that threshold of recognition: I think the threshold in Finland, that ‘special reason’ would appear to be a little lower after this than in other Nordic countries. Was there talk about ‘a special reason for wrestling’? In my opinion, the I would ask for an answer to these questions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u45	Thank you. — Mr Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u46	Thank you, Mr President! And thank you, Minister Henriksson, for your answer. Of course I know that, and you know that I know that the Constitutional Committee is the one who, in Finland, has an authority to interpret the Constitution, but that is something no one can deny that the views of the legal scholars are also relevant, in other words, at the stage of preparation, at the stage of reflection, and especially in matters on which the Constitutional Committee has not taken a position at all. As an example, I would like to mention this ban on begging, and as another example, this corona passport and, thirdly, as a very amusing example, I would like to point out that the constitutional expert should also be asked whether it is possible to continue to prepare such credit credits in Finland. Personally, I would like the Ministry of Justice and the media not to treat these views of constitutional scholars as a god's word. We often headline that the government ran into the Constitution, but I have never seen it in the title, nor in the message of the Minister for Justice, that constitutional experts came across the Constitution, even though many constitutional experts collided with the Constitution, for example, in this issue of corona passports, i.e. expressed views which the Constitutional Committee felt were neither justified nor ‘ correct’. In the interpretation of the Finnish Constitution. Then I would like to say that I welcome the fact that, in this proposal, the good and competent officials of the Ministry of Justice, who are responsible for the administration of justice, did not pay attention to what our legal scholars then said ten years ago about this prohibition of begging and such a law, which would have been directed mainly at certain minorities, as this is mainly directed at foreigners, did not consider this to be a constitutional issue. I welcome the non-salary of this doctrine at the Ministry of Justice, which was launched by Schein and Ojane, among others, ten years ago. As far as this corona passport is concerned, I would like to say that the Constitutional Committee had not taken a position on this issue and yet the Ministry of Justice obviously listened with a sensitive ear to this criticism as to how this might violate equality, and that was one of the reasons — not the only reason — apparently in delaying the introduction of the corona passport in Finland. If this passport had been introduced in early summer, I believe that Finland's vaccination coverage today would be more than 80%. Think about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u47	Thank you. — And again, Minister Henriksson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u48	Mr President! I am, like Mr Zyskowicz, concerned about the corona situation. You can say that it is up to all of us now to get those people who have not yet taken the vaccine to go to vaccinate. It can also be said here that I personally support this corona passport and it is good that we have come to an agreement on it. It is also the case that it is needed if the situation is to deteriorate further, and it is therefore good that it has now been adopted. We didn't know that in the spring. Perhaps we all believed that this was going for the better, and we lived in the hope that such a situation would not be rushed. Well, here everyone is trying their best every day, that is what I am convinced of, and together we can do a lot about this too. On these issues, which was raised by Mr Meri: we received about 40 opinions, and that commentary, and a summary of it, exists. I do not remember exactly who was heard and who were all giving this statement. It is quite clear that when people move to Finland they come here for one reason or another, we have to see that they get the right information about what our legal order is, what is allowed here, what is not allowed. This, too, requires that intersectoral work. And as far as integration is concerned, it is precisely this question that must of course be raised there. Then it is also a good thing that the Committee on Legal Affairs is now going through these questions which have been raised here in depth in the committee consultation. I have no objection to finding ways to improve this proposal further, then bring such proposals to my attention as well, and then we shall see. I think we are all on the same page here. We want Finland to be respected
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u49	At this stage, I say that item 4 will be deleted from the list. So if that's what people are here for, then you can leave now.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u50	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 20/2021 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — Mr Kymäläinen, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u51	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Transport and Communications concerns the Law on the Transport System and the Roads and the Railways Act. The proposed amendments would implement nationally the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Road Infrastructure Safety Directive, the so-called Road Safety Directive. The amendments concern the provisions of the Act on Road Safety Management on the roads of the trans-European road network. The most important changes would concern, inter alia, the extension of the scope of the law, the network-wide road safety assessment replacing the classification of road sections and the monitoring of safety management procedures. In addition, amendments to the Act on Transport Systems and Roads and the Railways Act would provide for a cross-border environmental impact assessment for road and rail projects subject to the Act on the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure. Mr. Speaker! In its report, the committee considers it necessary and appropriate to implement the directive. The experts consulted by the committee have largely welcomed the extension of the scope. Currently, the regulation concerns the roads of the trans-European transport network, TEN-T, which are 5199 kilometres long in Finland. In the future, the provisions will also apply in Finland to the main roads according to the main national bus regulations, and the network will cover 6572 kilometres. The committee also stresses the need not only to improve the safety of other roads but also to take care of their repair needs. In this context, the Committee draws attention to the road safety strategy under preparation at the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which includes effective means of improving road safety and preventing road accidents for all modes of transport. The objectives of the transport safety strategy are initially guided by a zero vision for road transport, which is now extended to all modes of transport: road and rail transport, aviation and boating. In addition, the committee draws attention to the suicide prevention programme for the years 2020 to 2030, which contains a number of proposals for measures to prevent suicide deaths in our country. In particular, the Committee stresses the need to take into account the risk of suicide in road safety work and considers that road safety should be considered in a comprehensive way. It would also be necessary to develop statistics on accidents in such a way that clear cases of suicide are recorded separately where possible. In the expert consultation, attention has also been paid to the importance of central rails for improving road safety. That is why the committee stresses the need to increase the average rails as widely as possible. I would like to thank the whole committee for its active handling of this matter. Mr President! The committee proposes that the legislative proposals contained in the government proposal be adopted unchanged. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u52	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen is absent. — Mr Soinikoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u53	Mr President! The Government bill under discussion is essentially linked to the national Transport 12 plan, one of the aims of which is to promote the transition to fossil-free transport. The Government's proposal contains the contents of two different EU directives aimed at improving road safety and the environmental impact assessment of cross-border infrastructure projects. The aim is to ensure that the same road safety criteria are applied in all EU Member States. These issues must also be taken into account during the implementation phase of the national Transport 12 plan. The safety of road and rail networks is something we cannot compromise on. Environmental and climate impact assessment must be an integral part of the planning of transport projects. Mr President! The committee drew particular attention to the suicide prevention programme for 2020-2030 and its measures to reduce suicide deaths in Finland. Accident statistics should be developed in such a way that clear cases of suicide should be recorded separately as a separate group where possible. The expert hearing drew attention to the importance of the central rails in improving road safety, and the committee considered that efforts should be made to increase the central rails in Finnish road transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u54	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, presentation, Mr Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u55	Mr President! With regard to the legislative initiative, I have tabled a provision to add to the Health Care Professionals Act a provision that the examination or treatment of certain categories of persons, such as the most vulnerable, would be permitted only for health care professionals. It is also proposed that non-health care professionals should be able to treat cancer or a person who is pregnant or who has had an organ transplant only in cooperation with a doctor. This bill is based on the fact that there is currently no specific legislation on alternative treatments and their use in Finland. There are repeated glaring cases where a seriously ill person has been offered treatment based on beliefs, which has led to a delay in treatment and even a danger to health. At the same time, people have been able to take advantage of the desperate situation and have also been able to spend substantial sums of money on these treatments, which are supposed to cure their illness. The purpose of the bill is to assign the treatment of severe diseases and vulnerable people only to healthcare professionals approved by Valvira. In other words, alternative treatments may continue to be given to sick people, but an alternative nurse must not treat the disease without the primary responsibility of the healthcare professional. Where health care controls the success, quality, disadvantages and precise control measures are carried out on units, alternative treatments and their providers are out of control. Prior control of alternative treatments is limited to spot checks by the Customs Laboratory or the Finnish Food Agency in connection with the import of substances and goods. Otherwise, religious treatments are completely out of control and control. In addition, these treatments are sold naturally safe to everyone regardless of age and medical history. Alternative treatment providers do not need to have patient documentation, patient insurance, a list of adverse reactions or post-monitoring. There will only be ex-post supervision if a request for an investigation or a criminal report is made to the police for a treatment that has gone wrong. Treatments rarely have sales regulations, such as medicines, and no evidence of their effectiveness is required. No one is actually watching if you're taking drugs and inappropriate extracts with drugs. Mr President! If you seek help in an emergency, you are rarely able to assess the quality of the services provided. The laws and obligations of health care professionals, but these laws do not apply to alternative treatment providers. This is challenging for the client. What if something goes wrong? The purpose of this bill is not to restrict alternative treatments or occupations otherwise, but legislation is needed to protect specific groups and those providing alternative treatments. The purpose of this law is also to emphasise the importance of cooperation between healthcare workers and alternative treatment providers. The provider of alternative treatments must not be solely responsible for the improvement of serious diseases, but must always be the primary responsibility of healthcare professionals. The law also protects the rights of the customer to diverse, researched and evidence-based treatment in situations where their own health is threatened by a serious illness. Therefore, alternative treatments are not prohibited, but because of the rights of the patient and the provider of alternative treatments, the provider of alternative treatments must ensure that the patient is seriously ill and vulnerable, because of the inconvenience, in the health care sector. It is also important from the point of view of the entrepreneur. When you know what you can do when you are a vulnerable person, you have the legal security, responsibility and duty of the entrepreneur to be more clear to everyone. Mr President! I hope that this bill will receive broad support in Parliament. There is a huge gap in our legislation as regards religious treatments and it should be blocked. In this respect, the legislation needs to be updated.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u56	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Congressman Biaudes gone, Congressman Kinnunen gone. — Representative Kaleva, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u57	Mr President! The current proposal for a law to bring Malmi Airport under protection is well-founded and fully supported. Thank you to Mr Biaudet and the other signatories of the initiative for allowing us to be in the process of making a solution that will benefit the endangered plants and animals in the Malmi region, biodiversity and the ecosystem as a whole. The Malmi area is valuable functionally, because in the near future we will need an airport suitable for new forms of aviation. Malmi is also valuable in cultural history. Malmi is already valuable and can in future be a more valuable recreation area for the residents of the region, but in particular Malmi is valuable because of its natural values. The ore is worth a lot of money, especially as a whole. Air operations maintain endangered meadows and provide a unique environment for highly endangered insect populations. Because of insects and conditions, Malmi is valuable to birds and bats. All parts of the whole are essential for the ecosystem. Without human operations, natural values would gradually be lost. The full construction of the area would inevitably destroy those values. As stated in the draft law, the natural and cultural environments associated with human activities have decreased nationally. The need for meadow nature has also been recognised in Helsinki. However, small meadow areas which are gradually being set up on different sides will not replace Malmi’s vast, uniquely integrated whole on the whole of southern Finland. The full construction of the area would also significantly change the water economy of the region and probably destroy Longinoja with its precious natural environment and its trout. Malmi is a bigger question than Helsinki. That is also the case for transport. The transition to environmentally friendly fuels and electronic flight has progressed faster than expected. They are no longer a distant future; they are already on the horizon and, in part, already existing innovations and changes in the logic of action. New modes of transport need an operating environment that is ideal for Malmi Airport. On the other hand, even the alternatives previously required by Parliament have not been demonstrated at Malmi Airport. As a construction site, the area is quite ill-suited. The deep ulfidisavi layer calls for buildings to be impaled up to the base rock. This is not only costly but also disastrous for the climate. It is estimated that more than 14,000 kilometres of reinforced concrete pillars would be needed. Their production alone emits more than 350,000 tonnes of CO2. In particular, you would think that the Greens, who are concerned about the climate, are opposed to such huge emissions. However, among the signatories to the bill by Mr Biaudet, there are no green representatives. Demanding climate action from others would be more credible if the demanders showed the model themselves. There is plenty of good construction ground in Helsinki that is more suitable than Malmi. The need for housing construction cannot be an explicit justification for the destruction of this area. Mr President! I have often been asked why I am defending Malmi Airport, even though I do not fly or engage in aviation. I have replied that there are two reasons: facts and common sense. Both will have their arguments in this initiative by Mr Biaudet, and I can therefore wholeheartedly support this historic initiative to safeguard the whole of Malmi Airport. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u58	Thank you. — Mr Torniainen is absent, Mr Rantanen is absent, Mr Mari is absent. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u59	Mr President! However, it must be said from the outset that Mr Kaleva has made a worthy speech and, yes, we must thank Mr Biaudet for a good legislative initiative. — This is indeed the purpose of the bill to change the demarcation of Sipoonkorkko National Park to take into account Malmi Airport. This area next to Sipoonkorve in the area of Malmi is certainly the most endangered natural meadow in Southern Finland, right here at Malmi Airport. Of the ecosystem and vitality of the endangered meadow type at the airport, Jaakko Kullberg, a well-experienced butterfly researcher and biologist, says, “in other parts of Finland, large numbers of butterflies ” — than at the Malmi Airport. I think that this bill is very timely and, as Mr Kaleva said, of course I too am very sad that Malmi Airport is being put on the table and has already been closed and is being destroyed. I am not a pilot myself, I am not flying, I am not an amateur on the flight side, but I am a great friend of aviation, and my friendship with aviation is growing year by year, and as Mr Kaleva said there, yes, considering Malmi Airport, facts and common sense should be introduced in this situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u62	Thank you. — Representative Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u63	Thank you, Mr President. It is easy to agree with previous representatives that destroying Malmi Airport is not only a short-term policy but also a policy detrimental to natural values. There is also no indication of the trend to which aviation is going. Quite a few larger urban areas have airports in two places, and Malmi has a clear role not only in recreational flying but also in the future of flying, as different technologies make flying more environmentally friendly and allow a little longer journeys to be folded in quite fast time. Mrs Biaudet's bill has been well drafted and, on this point, Mr President, I would like to say in general terms that I hope that the legislative initiatives will receive proper and thorough consideration in Parliament. For my part, I am very sorry because of the changes in the timetable for today's sitting, but also because the agenda went faster than I could have seen from my own office. I have not been able to present this initiative of my own, and I would also like to say to Parliament's books and covers that I am sorry about this. As far as I am concerned, I would certainly like to be able to present it, but I understand that, unfortunately, it is not possible for Parliament's rules to be broken. That is why, on this point, in the case of a very well-managed legislative initiative, I would like to use this opportunity when we talk about transport, also to promote commuting and rail transport, in general, modern transport policy in this country. Mr President! However, thank you for giving me the opportunity to hold this debate. As far as I am concerned, I regret that I have not been able to present the previous draft law, but the explanatory statement can be found in the text itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u64	Thank you. I would like to say that it is difficult to assess whether someone is coming here from this seat of the President. Yes, the representative himself must make sure that he has time to deal with his case. — Mr Kinnunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u65	Mr President! Thank you for your excellent contributions. Thank you to Mr Biaudet for taking this bill, which I intended to sign but finally forgot to sign, and I would therefore like to express my support for it so orally. Malmi Airport is almost 90 years old. In March this year it was closed. It was a tough blow for a lot of people. There are, of course, economic reasons for closing the airport: the airport is not worth it, a new construction sector is needed and so on. However, this can also be considered from the point of view of nature values. The airport has made it possible to preserve a unique ecosystem in the centre of Helsinki. Helsinki and its neighbourhoods need their lungs, parks, hiking trails, nature sports routes and nature areas, which increase the well-being of residents. The bill highlights the special nature of the grasslands in the Malmi region. Airport meadows are endangered meadow habitats. Among them are rare butterflies, birds, and bats. In spite of this, threatened meadow areas have been designed to be built in zoning. The unique meadows would disappear. I believe that the City of Helsinki will find new places to build somewhere else, because I hope that the endangered meadows and ecosystems of Malmi will be protected. I support the bill by Mrs Biaudet to link the areas to Sipoonkorve National Park. At the same time, I would like to thank Mr Köntä – I too tried to run from there to make a speech about it – for this bill for nature-saving and sustainable development, which would enable train traffic across Finland. I already had a great vision for commuter trains and the airport from Oulunsalo airport to the centre of Oulu. So thank you to all those who have taken legal initiatives. They are important in this parliamentary work. — And from there the author of the bill himself comes and has time to press the P button, so you can talk, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u66	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u67	Honorable Speaker! I would also like to take the floor to allow Mr Biaudet to speak on this important legislative initiative which he has taken and which I myself have signed. Of course, you must be a little confused that the people in the centre of the province are defending important values, natural values, here in the capital region — about the reality we see about the need to protect this important area from the concrete industry and other builders. It is quite strange that on this kind of swamp area go first of all to destroy this important airport of Malmi, which is a general aviation node, but then I also wonder that the construction industry goes to the swamp area through impalement to make apartment buildings. I wonder, especially because this some one-hundred-hectare meadow is extremely, extremely endangered in terms of the type of habitat in that 100-hectare meadow. But, as I have already said, Mr President, this Malmi Airport is, first of all, a symbol of independent Finland, an old airport, from which the DC-threes have once left both to the world and also to the regions. And now we must also dare look to the future. For us, air transport will develop along the lines of increasing electrification in the area of small-scale air transport. It is sad that when there is such a general aviation node, where the small-air traffic operations at Malmi Airport work, so if in the future there is no entry from the provinces to Malmi Airport to land and our capital, Helsinki, would not be able to fly through small-air traffic to the provinces as well. I find it strange that there will be no such Malmi Airport in our capital, Helsinki, in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u68	Thank you. — Mr Biaudet, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u69	Mr President! First of all, I must thank my fellow Members for giving me a chance too. I almost missed it. I ran fast from that little Parliament, but here I am. I know a lot of other people would have liked to be here today, but this is how this schedule goes from time to time. Mr President! The proposed law is intended to link the area of Malmi Airport, its meadows and forest areas and the water catchment areas of Longinoja to the Sipoonkorve National Park by a total of 169 hectares. The versatile entity attached to the National Park protects and preserves the valuable aromatic endangered meadows and other natural values of Malmi Airport by continuing the aviation activity that has given birth to the meadows and maintained them for 90 years, as has been well said here. Human and nature’s long-term and continuing special coexistence is illustrated by the 100 hectares of aromatic meadows, their species of life, and the areas and buildings assigned to the aviation activities that sustain them. Forest areas around the meadows, their vegetation and fauna, as well as species of small-water nature in Longinoja, are still protected in the area to be connected to the National Park. There's a lot of them. At the same time, the national park supports nature activities and recreation in the capital. Mr President! The area of Malmi Airport is also historically important from a national point of view, as has been said here. If Malmi Airport is built, the cultural historical significance of the region will disappear once and for all as Malmi is one of the first airports built for international air transport. At the same time, a unique large area of about 100 hectares of common meadows with endangered species will be lost. Fragile meadows cannot replace Malmi’s vast meadow area, but the loss of the largest meadow concentration will also affect the number and diversity of insect populations and birds in the surrounding area. The airport area also serves as a migration resting place for endangered birds and has a significant population of protected bats. Since 1986, a popular and open bird trip has been organized on the outdoor route around the airport called the Nightingale Tour. Mr President! It may be worth reminding you that only 18% of Malmi Airport's territory is paved. The rest of the area serves as a safe haven for many species, where they have survived when meadow areas have disappeared elsewhere. Malmi Airport is also a significant catchment area of Longinoja. The work of volunteers for Longinoja has been rewarded as the best nature act in 2017 and 2018. Construction would jeopardise the longinoja water system, where, for example, in 1998, 2001 and 2002, the endangered trout has been successfully released. Mr President! We should also look ahead. It is estimated that silent electric aircraft will start passenger transport within up to five years. In March this year, an international conference on ecological and electronic flying was held in Finland for the third time. The participants included Airbus, Finavia, Finnair, Helsinki Electric Aircraft Association, MAF Finland, Neste, Rolls-Royce and many others. A key observation was that the world is investing heavily in the development of environmental and electronic solutions for aviation. The development and deployment of renewable aviation fuels is also progressing rapidly. More than 200 projects are under way to develop the development of electronic aircraft with the aim of developing passenger transport, including in metropolitan areas. The bill proposes that after a transitional period, only aircraft operating at Malmi Airport with electric machines and renewable fuels should be allowed to operate. Protecting the area also supports the development of ecological and electronic flying in Finland and protects an endangered, extensive and integrated meadow ecosystem. We will also promote the achievement of climate objectives and the preservation of biodiversity. Mr President! The proposal is not estimated to have a direct lasting or significant impact on the state budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u70	Thank you. — Representative Kaleva, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u71	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to take this opportunity once again to thank Mr Biaudet for this bill, which is very important and of national importance. If we talk about Malmi Airport, it is not just a matter of Helsinki and it is not a matter of Helsinki region, a matter of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, but it is a matter of the whole empire. We must remember when we talk about this housing, land shortage, which now prevails in Helsinki, that it has been since the time of Sakari Topelius. He wrote in his day that the biggest obstacle to growth and success in Helsinki is the shockingly high price of housing and housing, so this is not a new issue here in the capital region. In 2007, Sipoo was taken over this Östersundom area and connected to Helsinki, and it was then said that if this area cannot now be taken into use for the planning of Helsinki, it will be a terrible result, and nothing will happen unless these apartments are built there. Well, then, it turns out that Helsinki tried to land there too close to these Natura areas, and now the whole Östersundom area has been in full limbo since then. Now there is a risk that the same thing will happen at Malmi Airport. These meadow values, the natural values of these meadows, are very important, as has been heard from several representatives in this Chamber. Would it not be more reasonable now to introduce this bill by Mr Biaudet and build those apartments in Östersundom, where they can be built, and to protect the natural values of Malmi here, so that it does not happen as it has been in Östersundom? This is something we should think about in this Chamber from the very side of everyone, regardless of the left-wing—right-wing split. Malmi is a national issue, not a regional issue in Helsinki or the Helsinki region. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u72	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u73	Honorable Speaker! There have been some excellent speeches here. Thank you, Mr Biaudet, for presenting the bill. With joy from this bill, I also see that in the future — when we hope that this bill will go through — aviation operations will only be allowed for electric aircraft and aircraft operating on renewable fuels, which will contribute to nature conservation and climate objectives and ensure the survival of endangered meadows in that area. That is what we should strive for. At this stage, I would also like to thank the Friends of Malmi Airport, who have done well to take care of it, as Mr Kaleva also pointed out, that maintaining this airport is also a national issue. We must now also remind the House of some misinformation that this field is running with taxpayers' money: this is not the case, but the users have paid for using this field by way of operation and land rental themselves. When you look at the 2020 permits here in Helsinki, the vast majority of Helsinki residents want this Helsinki airport to remain in aviation use. There are also claims that Malmi's operations are limited. However, the activity at this Malmi Airport has continued as busy as before in early 2021, with nearly 40,000 operations per year. Yes, I would like, still, from a purely national point of view, like this representative. Biaudet pointed out that, in five years' time, air transport will be undergoing a major upheaval in terms of the electrification of small air transport and thus of increasing mobility, so I would like this hub of general aviation, Malmi Airport, to be in operation and to serve all activities relating to general aviation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u74	Congressman Biaudet, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-10-19-ps-120.u75	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank not only the fellow Members of Parliament but also these friends at Malmi Airport, the activists who, in fact, not only take care of the activities, have also been concerned and have prepared this bill together with me. The best knowledge of nature conservation and diversity and aviation know-how has been used here, but also the knowledge of new technologies in the aviation sector from the Nordic countries, and in that sense there has been a great deal of care. I am not saying that I am any more of an expert on these matters, but I have been very grateful that there has been concern. Just as has been said here, some things are indeed historical and national and demand that we really raise the general debate on maintaining Malmi Airport before it is too late, because once it is built it will be difficult to reverse history. - Thank you.
