ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-10-ps-149.u1	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, Mr Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-10-ps-149.u2	Madam President! We are living in the midst of an epidemic and are also preparing for the January regional elections. Now, in this government proposal, it is proposed to amend the electoral law. The aim is to promote the possibility of voting for military service and women's voluntary military service. This will allow for the holding of an institutional vote in the garrison and the department. This will reduce the need to transport conscripts separately to public advance polling stations. This will make voting smoother and also improve the health security of voting now during the epidemic. According to the motion, an institutional vote would be held in the military military garrison and in the Border Guard garrison training units. In the case of an institution vote, persons entitled to vote for military service or voluntary military service by women could vote in garrison and in units. Mr President! After all, this year's municipal elections carried out an institutional vote in these garrisons and units, involving some 15,000 persons entitled to vote for military service or voluntary military service. This was achieved by the temporary amendment of the electoral law on the occasion of the corona pandemic, and this amendment is indeed being made permanent. In this way, the corona, even though it is a terrible scourge for all of us, has also given impetus to, among other things, this very sensible and important reform, which also serves to exercise the right to vote in normal times. It is hoped that other new practices that have been found to be good in municipal elections in order to improve the health safety of votes will be used as widely as possible at national level in the January regional elections. Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in its unanimous report, states and suggests that Parliament will accept this proposal unchanged, while also stressing that no one can, of course, be told to exercise their right to vote and it is important that voting in the garrison can take place as freely as possible. The proposed amendments are intended to enter into force as soon as possible in order to make them available already in the regional elections. Mr President! Increasing the vote and improving health safety in voting are important. One way is to make voting easier by taking it where people are and moving. This improvement in the voting capacity of conscripts and women engaged in voluntary military service is very good and worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-10-ps-149.u3	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-10-ps-149.u4	Madam President! This reform and correction of the electoral code is welcome. This has been discussed for a long time, and it is good that it is now easier to vote for the garrison more permanently, that is to say that this experiment will be recorded in the electoral law. All in all, we should take measures to make voting easier, on a low threshold. For some of us, the vote is such a day that we want to put on a voting jacket and vote on that holiday, but even more importantly, it would be more important for more and more people to express their opinions in the elections so that we do not go towards the situation that even less than half of those entitled to vote will express their opinions. These are worrying signs that we have heard from the United States, among others, that a minority is beginning to exercise power and that it is creating a variety of worrying features. Well, regional election then: I have tried a little to raise the debate on whether it is really the case that, in January, regional health-security elections can be held in Finland. It should be discussed at this stage whether it is possible to ensure that those in corona quarantine can vote, how many people are in corona quarantine in January, hospital care and even intensive care, how to ensure their vote in this difficult corona situation and how this has been ensured after the municipal elections. I have not personally found the answer in which our election authorities have told me what the solution is to this worsening interest rate situation. I received some criticism when I raised this problem a few weeks ago, and it seems that this is going to go down with a little extinguished lights on the elections and at the same time the corona lights are burning and flashing red. I am afraid, Mr President, that in January we will not be able to hold a corona-safe elections in Finland — although I would like to do so myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-10-ps-149.u5	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-10-ps-149.u6	Madam President! I can very well agree with the two speeches made above, namely that this small clarification of the electoral law that can be voted on in the institutions, in this case in the garrison, is a welcome reform in itself, because it increases the possibility of facilitating the vote in these places and thereby increasing the voting rate. But, Mr President, perhaps this kind of heretic attention is in order if we look at this issue internationally. In Finland, in an open democracy, this is a natural reform, but when I have been involved in international election observation in a wide range of societies, even authoritarian countries, we have a very negative attitude in our electoral reports to the fact that such joint votes are taking place in institutions, or if there were to be votes in the garrison, it would be with a big exclamation mark — it would be with a big exclamation mark — because in these types of situations there is easy to worry that this process is manipulative in nature. As has been said, this issue must be seen in the context of society, and Finland is living in an open democracy, and we are guaranteed to have an election secret and individual behaviour in that situation. Then if it happens more like this as a team or as part of a whole, then there are these electoral secrecy-related features and even this sort of pressure feature possibly exists. I just wanted to let you know that it depends a little on where you look at it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-10-ps-149.u7	Congressman Kemp.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-10-ps-149.u8	Madam President! This government proposal is very good, as we have heard about the preliminary debate. It will also be possible to vote in institutions, such as the garrison, and this has even been tried in recent municipal elections, so in that sense we can certainly decide on the continuation of this government's proposal. The development of voting practices is, above all, an important issue and a good thing that has already taken place in the debate. However, I am concerned about the percentages of votes, and that is precisely why such government proposals should be promoted. The voting turnout for the exceptional spring municipal elections was lowest in 70 years: the voting turnout was 55.1 per cent. In the 2017 elections, the turnout already fell by 3.8 percentage points, so this trend has been constant and therefore extremely worrying from the perspective of Finnish democracy and, in particular, close democracy. After all, municipal elections are the most important elections in Finland, and now that we are going to these welfare elections, regional elections, in January, when this proposal will also be in force, if everything goes well, then changes will also have to be made. We need to make changes so that we can raise the turnout for those forthcoming regional elections. I am particularly concerned about the turnout of young people: It grew slightly in recent municipal elections, but still young people vote less than other age groups, and young people's participation in municipal decision-making is at a worrying level. In other words, young people are not present in municipal councils in the way they are present in society. I hope that this government proposal will bring about a change to this current state of affairs. Of course, we do not know what will happen in the welfare regions, because these elections have never been held, which are due in January, but we know that these elections are obviously extremely critical. We are talking about basic services for people, we are talking about social and health services, rescue services and student services, and they should also be of interest to young people. I assume that this government proposal will increase the turnout, especially among the garrison, and I am sure we will expect Parliament, as a parliament, to maintain an election secret at a particularly good level in the garrison, despite this proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-10-ps-149.u9	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-10-ps-149.u10	Mr President! Inspired by Mr Kemp, I would like to stress the same thing that these regional elections, the first general elections of the intermediate administration in Finland, are exceptionally important. And now it is really to be feared that, when the turnout in municipal elections has fallen and was then at the level of 50%, it may start at the level of four, if not even worse. And in this respect, the credibility of the institution as a whole is at stake if we do not manage to keep that turnout high enough, because that legitimacy is so weak, so weak. In this case, there is now a responsibility on the part of the authorities — we should be more active and more informed about this electoral situation, the importance of those elections more — but also, when there is a little talk today about the role of the media, which play a major role in creating a reality picture in Finland, it would be desirable that these regional elections should also be given attention and space in the media. I am sure the President will agree with this phrase if I say that we have had too much to do now, that small things have become big, micro-businesses have become giants and the big things we have here want to shrink too little. And when it comes to the election situation, then in the election situation, these are big things. They should be properly informed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-10-ps-149.u11	The 11th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The Council of Presidents proposes that the procedure proposed by the Council of Presidents on 30 November 2021 be followed at the sole reading of the draft budget for 2022. There was no discussion.
