ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee, the Administrative Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate and Minister Kiuru will present. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u2	Mr President! On Friday 18 June, the government submitted a proposal to the Parliament to amend the Act on communicable diseases. The amendments are intended to be in force temporarily as a result of the pandemic until the end of this year. However, the section on the so-called second test in the Act would only apply until mid-October. The amendments to the Act on communicable diseases aim to prevent the spread of infections from abroad to Finland. Persons over 16 years of age arriving in Finland would be required to have a reliable certificate of covid-19 disease, approved covid-19 vaccine series within six months, or a reliable covid-19 test with a negative result prior to arrival in Finland. Mr President! This package of rules on border management of the Act on Contagious Diseases has been being prepared in various forms for a long time. In March, an amendment to the Act on communicable diseases came into force to clarify the powers of the Regional State Administrative Agencies in compulsory health checks. In this context, Parliament's response includes a statement in which Parliament required the Government to take immediate action to establish an entry procedure to prevent the spread of a general-risk communicable disease and, at the same time, to take account of the increasing traffic volumes in border traffic in the future. This was the case at the time. The procedure has been set up and, on that basis, the procedure is still being specified in all its aspects. This is an excellent time, because the number of passengers is increasing, and the new regulation on the conditions of entry for internal borders and external borders on Thursday also makes it possible to do so. This proposal will therefore now be brought before Parliament and this amendment will once again clarify the processes of entry and enable health-security tourism. Mr President! Covid-19 virus variants have currently been identified as a significant epidemiological threat. Virus mutations have spread very widely around the world, and the strains of viruses that have been transformed in many countries have replaced the earlier strains. It is important to ensure that these modified viruses can be prevented from entering Finland as effectively as possible. The National Institute for Health and Welfare has estimated that Finland’s population over 16 years of age will receive the first covid-19 vaccine during summer 2021 and, for those who have received the full vaccination series, it will take more than 70% of the vaccine coverage until the last quarter of 2021. Vaccines can be seen to have three types of benefits in combating cross-border covid-19 infections: vaccinations arriving in Finland prevent the spread of infections across borders by preventing infection and reducing infectivity. Vaccination of travellers arriving in Finland reduces the need for hospitalisation and thus ensures the carrying capacity of health care. Thirdly, the increasing vaccine coverage of the Finnish population prevents the spread of infections and protects the carrying capacity of health care even in situations where individual infections cross the border. However, until sufficient vaccine coverage is achieved, it is important to ensure that the population is protected against viruses coming across the border. In the law, the requirement to take part in the so-called second test within 3 to 5 days of arrival in Finland is still an important health safety measure in this situation until the vaccination coverage is sufficiently high. I believe that many in this Chamber would like that second test to be removed. The Ministerial Working Group on Social Affairs and Health also examined when this possibility would be possible and the health authorities, both from the point of view of STM and THL, have been convinced that at this stage the level of vaccine coverage does not yet allow this second test to be removed. Mr President! It is therefore proposed to introduce new, temporary provisions into the Act on communicable diseases. It is proposed to amend the Act so that persons over 16 years of age arriving in Finland would be required to have a reliable certificate of covid-19 disease within six months, an acceptable covid-19 vaccine series, or at most 72 hours prior to arrival in Finland for a covid test showing a negative result. If a person had no such certificate of covid-19 disease, he should take a test when arriving in Finland. The obligation to take another covid test within 3 to 5 days would not apply to those who have a certificate of a series of vaccines or disease. Then they would not be affected at all by these health safety measures. The law would also specify certain categories of derogations for which these certificates would not be required and therefore would not be affected by health safety measures. The Act on Diseases would impose a penalty if the person did not participate in the tests mentioned above. In addition, the Act on communicable diseases would introduce additional regulation to official assistance. The proposed changes will effectively protect the health of the population and ensure the carrying capacity of social and health care by preventing the spread of covid-19 infections in cross-border traffic and shifting testing and certification pressure to countries of origin. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u3	Thank you. — Mr Juvonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u4	Mr President! This Government bill proposes that persons arriving in Finland should be required to have a reliable certificate of covid-19 disease within six months, an acceptable covid-19 vaccination series or a reliable covid-19 test demonstrating a negative result prior to arrival in Finland. If a person born in or before 2005 in Finland would not be required to present a covid-19 test certificate, he or she should take a test on arrival in Finland and another covid-19 test within 72 to 120 hours of arrival in Finland. In addition, those who have a certificate of a reliable covid-19 test prior to arrival in Finland should take another covid-19 test within 72 to 120 hours of arrival in Finland. In addition, it is proposed to amend the law to make it punishable if the person did not take part in the covid-19 tests referred to above. Mr President! As the Minister said earlier, it is a question of health safety, and I think it is very important that Finland should continue to ensure that the virus does not spread and that we can prevent the arrival of these virus varieties, of which we already know a great deal, from entering Finland. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister how we are now preparing in Finland for these other conversion viruses that are coming, and will we then be able to do this in the autumn and winter when cold airs arrive? I would like to raise a number of questions raised in the feedback. Despite the fact that we want to protect Finns from viruses and also open borders so that tourism, among other things, recovers in Finland, we must be able to discuss both these issues. This is a very difficult issue because at the same time we must protect and at the same time open up borders and enable Finland to open up and companies to survive and tourism to come back. Here in the expert feedback it has been said that Finland’s travel policies can have negative effects on Finland’s tourism image and Finland’s tourism image in the global market. There may be a risk that tour operators will permanently transfer their production to other destinations. In 2019 tourism employed nearly 120,000 person-years in Finland. Tourism is reflected in many other sectors, such as retail trade, creative industries and personnel services. In the last week of May, a brief consultation took place on this proposal, but despite its brevity, it received a huge number of opinions and also critical ones. Among other things, it is said here that the draft proposal does not adequately meet the need to liberalise cross-border travel. Several opinions put forward the targeting of restrictive measures only on passengers from high-risk countries and also expressed the view that the proposal would lead to more stringent regulation than the EU's overall level. The opinions here also generally considered that the adverse effects of restrictions on employment and the economy should be taken into account in further preparation. The decision on border security measures should also take into account other broader societal factors than health safety alone, such as external trade, security of supply, logistics and tourism. In other words, from these statements we can all say that it is a difficult issue to deal with. At the same time, we protect our citizens against serious virus, against virus changes that we take seriously, yet we must open up our borders and enable Finland to recover and the world to recover. I would like to raise concerns about the adequacy of the staff. Here, in one opinion, concerns have been expressed about the adequacy of human and financial resources, especially as the number of passengers increases as the epidemic eases. The proposal would bring a lot more tasks for municipalities and joint municipal authorities and would require considerable additional resources from the health system. There are not enough skilled healthcare staff available and, if implemented, this proposal would lead to an overload of the health care system. Staff transfers cannot be increased and part of the territory is no longer available for private purchasing services. So this is a performance that affects a lot of sectors. And I hope that, when we are discussing this referral, we will raise a wide range of these various concerns, such as those raised by operators, such as the aviation sector, and then we will consider how we might be able to change the draft law, for example in the committee, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, where I myself am working to ensure that the situation of infection in the countries of origin is taken into account and that national legislation does not impose more stringent requirements than the pan-European level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u5	Thank you. — Representative Holopainen Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u6	Mr President! The committees have started working on this proposal and it is indeed important to ensure that entry is both as smooth and as safe as possible. It would also be important to take sufficient account of the development of vaccine coverage and its impact on this model of entry. It would appear that there could be a need for further clarifications and changes. There are also comments relating to this health safety, and these have certainly already been mentioned to the Ministry in the preparation process, and when the starting point is also assessed on the basis of research, which would be the safe model and, on the other hand, the possible model, then we can certainly count on the need for change from this point of view. Of course, from an economic point of view, it is also important to ensure that the model is such that it does not cause any undue burden, but, of course, at the same time, we must ensure that there is no significant setback in the progress of the epidemic. But we are in a slightly different situation now than when we did not have the risk groups vaccinated, and now even middle-aged people have been vaccinated. In that sense, we are in a situation which will probably now require a little assessment of this draft law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u7	Thank you. — And Mr Essayah, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u8	Mr President! This proposal by the government for a temporary amendment to the Act on Diseases is necessary, and certainly this bill would have been needed before, because it is of course important, in this situation, that we should be able to securely open up the borders of our country and that we should not impose a disproportionate burden on, for example, our industry, tourism and the personal relationships of many people. This improvement in the disease situation, on the one hand, and the improvement in vaccine coverage, on the other hand, will enable this gradual opening up, but it is of the utmost importance that we pay particular attention to this border security, as has already been the case in a number of debates in this Chamber before this, because these different variants have, in principle, come from abroad and the fight against them is very important in this situation. Certainly, as Mr Juvonen has pointed out, there is still a need for these different challenges to be addressed in the committee, if you could say, which this bill poses, for example, to the testing staff and their adequacy and how quickly it is possible to react to the number of passengers coming from different directions at any time. These are certainly issues that need to be carefully reviewed in committee. In principle, this bill is certainly to be welcomed, and I believe that this would indeed be something that has been hoped for in this House in the past. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u9	Thank you. — Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u10	Thank you, Mr President. First, the government did not catch up, and now the government does not make sense to open the borders. This proposal presents considerable challenges, as Mr Essayah said, for practical implementation at Helsinki Airport or Helsinki Port, for example. I hope that the committee concerned, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, will pay attention to these issues and, if necessary, will make significant changes to this government proposal. One of the options put forward in the reply to the opinion was that these certificates and their existence had already been verified by the carrier in the country of departure. However, this is not what has been achieved in the government proposal. Minister Kiuru, why haven't we ended up? And in this regard, perhaps a more technical question: why has this matter not been examined in the explanatory statement of the government's proposal, even though we all know that this has also been discussed, and, as the explanatory statement of the government's proposal on page 47 shows, this issue has also been raised in the feedback to the opinion? If the answer is roughly that for constitutional reasons such rights cannot be granted to the carrier — and I therefore suspect that the answer is about that — then I ask Minister Kiuru: is it not strange that, on the recommendation of the THL, a clearly strong recommendation, for example, Finnair can at present verify the existence of these certificates and prevent people from arriving on the plane and in practice in Finland, unless there are such certificates, but we in the Finnish Parliament cannot provide for such a law? Of course I understand that there is a public and private dimension here, but I still ask. All in all, Mr President, Madam Minister, I hope that, in cooperation with the government, this draft law could be dealt with in committee, even though the timetable is very tight, to make changes which would ensure that this issue also works in practice and that it does not unnecessarily hamper the tourism industry in Finland, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u11	Thank you. — Mr Laukkanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u12	Mr President! This government proposal clarifies the current state of affairs. It brings posture to the borders and gives the authorities the authority to intervene in abuses. This is a good show. It should have been brought to Parliament a year ago. This is unhelpably late. Still, it's good that it's coming now, that's just the way it is. Mr President! When autumn comes, Finland will be forced to open up towards normal operations. There is no alternative to whether or not this virus will become new variations, but our economy will no longer be able to cope with the debt being passed on. This is the state of affairs that the whole of Finland is currently wondering, the whole business world is wondering whether the courage of the government to open up Finland in the autumn and then simply bear the consequences, perhaps even further infections. Then, when we begin to have over 70 percent protection, the severity of the morbidity of the affected is something quite different than it has been before. And in fact, even though it is not directly related to this proposal, I would like to hear from Minister Kiuru: is the Government now quite clear about the plan to open Finland in the autumn? After all, it does not just happen that we will be hearing here in the autumn during the first Question Time that ‘we understand that we need to’. It would certainly be good to be informed about this and, Mr President, this is not an accusation, it is a fervent wish. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u13	Thank you. — Mr Koponen, Mr Ari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u14	President! The Government proposes that persons arriving in Finland until mid-October should be accompanied by a certificate of vaccination series, pre-test or disease. In Finland, the capacity of healthcare for interest rate testing and tracing is very limited, and the proposed changes could shift the testing and certification pressure to the countries of origin. I think — and just like the representative Mr Laukkanen said last time — this proposal comes one year late, but better now than ever. It is important to be able to access air and rail transport safely. The recovery of Finnish tourism companies depends essentially on policies and the smooth flow of entry. The strong growth in tourism demand arises primarily from foreign tourists arriving in Finland. The tourism sector brings work and livelihood to different parts of Finland, including outside regional and municipal centres. With regard to pre-booking in the winter period 21-22, the situation seems good for tourism companies for the time being, but the realisation of pre-booking as a turnover depends on reducing Finland's travel restrictions. The sale of summer 21, especially through foreign tour operators, to Finland has already largely been lost. Mr President! It is important that the need for a certificate is clearly and comprehensively communicated. Local authorities, THL, public authorities and various operators must develop communication so that the instructions actually reach people arriving in Finland. Finally, although the proposal will increase the costs of municipalities and the state due to inspection, testing, operation, planning and control, it will bring back the euro spent quickly as an increase in tourism and consumption. And maybe to the end, I'd like to ask Minister Kiuru about the coronas. There was talk of them at first, but now the speech has been silenced, even though good results have been achieved. They should not replace existing testing methods but support them. Where are we going with this?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u15	Thank you. — And Mr. Tanus, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u16	Mr President! Throughout the corona period, our borders have been one of the key challenges in the beginning that borders were caught, and there were calls for tests at the borders so that really no new coronavirus infections in Finland would occur across the borders. Well, fortunately, we are now in a much better situation and hopefully still going for the better, but those conversion viruses are a great risk, and their existence and their possible entry must be carefully taken into account and tried to do everything possible to prevent new transformation viruses, new infections in Finland from spreading to Finland, and, of course, at the same time to try to operate within the borders of Finland in such a way that we do not spread the infections here and do not accidentally get them ourselves. At the same time as we were discussing new variants and the situation, it is of course important that we liberalise as much business as possible, as well as borders and border traffic, but, of course, all this must be done in the long term in a health-safe way — I underline it several times: it must be done in a health-safe manner. These tests must also be made to work flexibly and easily, and at this point I would like to ask the Minister where the breath tests are. We had them in the autumn, and there was also a sample of the breath test on television, which in practice gives us an answer at the same time. A convenient, fast and inexpensive test, and if we think about those ports or even the airport and large numbers of tourists or passengers, it would be very necessary and practical help at this stage. Indeed, as has been pointed out here, there are challenges in this proposal, and I also wonder, as Mr Zyskowicz did, about this situation for the carriers. Should we not think about and plan these situations as flexibly as possible before they arrive at the border, in other words, so that carriers can also check those covid certificates? Therefore, I personally hope that you will go through this proposal carefully in the committee and also in such a way that you will consider the means, the measures needed to ensure that, in practice, action at the borders, whether ports or airports, takes place as quickly and flexibly as possible, and also in such a way that health care staff, which otherwise is lacking, are as little tied to this service or obligation as possible. In this regard, too, I wonder whether those breath tests will finally be made available to Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u17	Thank you. — In the absence of Mr Kinnunen. — Mr Multala, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u18	Mr President! This is a proposal aimed at regulating the way to Finland during this covid-19 pandemic and what conditions must be met in order to be able to come to Finland. Thank you to the government for finally getting this proposal here in Parliament, and it is already in committee. Of course, as many representatives have said here, this took an unauthorized period of time. Mr President! The recovery of travel is important for Finland as a whole, and it would therefore have been important to have been able to quickly define new lines in the past. According to the draft proposal, this law could now be in force at the earliest in July or later, once it has been properly dealt with by Parliament. Of course, the starting point should be safe travel, and everyone will agree with that. That is why the pan-European approach is to carry out a health check in the country of origin. Before this law came to Parliament, the City of Vantaa, Finavia, the City of Helsinki — I think Finnair was involved and Eero Hirvensalo, the expert responsible for airport health safety, also HUS was involved — made a joint proposal on how to ensure this health safety of travel, especially at the airport. Its starting point was that the certificate required here, i.e. a certificate of disease or a series of vaccinations or a negative test, would be checked prior to arrival in the country, i.e. practically before boarding an aeroplane, a ship or so on. This would ensure that travel is also healthy, or at least much more likely. Mr President! I am now making a strong appeal, particularly to the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Lohene, and to the Committee as a whole, and I hope that you will listen carefully to the experts and make the necessary changes to this proposal in order to achieve the objectives of this proposal. Mr President! This proposal raises the problem of the condition contained in this proposal, i.e. that certificates are viewed here in Finland. That means a lot of human resources. For example, there are 60,000 passengers per day at Helsinki Airport, if you think of the normal situation. Of course, everyone’s testimony does not have to be seen then, but this too remains a little unclear. In any event, if everyone had to look at the certificate, it would in practice require thousands of healthcare professionals to work at the airport. Mr President! I am sure that each one of us understands that no large city has such a large number of staff to detach, especially when we have a growing care debt and testing that is still in strong use. Mr President! If it is not possible to change the fact that the certificate is viewed before entering an aeroplane or ship, at least the requirement that the certificate can be viewed here should be loosened. At the moment, there was a certain flexibility to be a person other than a health professional, but it still means in practice, for example, in the case of an airport, the staff of the City of Vantaa, which is not even available for all these tasks. Mr President! This requirement for the second test, which was already mentioned by the Minister in his opening speech, is also interesting in the sense that, at the moment — and I understand that Yle is reporting just last week — people in hospital and intensive care are those who have already been on vaccination duty and have therefore not been vaccinated and have received this more serious form of disease. If so, however, can it be considered that we have vaccination coverage at such a high level that the spread of a large-scale epidemic in Finland or even the spread of virus variants would not be a high risk? Mr President, I am confident that the committee will also assess this. And finally, I'd like to say... Unfortunately, this proposal lacks a risk assessment. I hope that it does not become too big a problem now, and I hope that it can be supplemented during the debate. Mr President! I would really appeal to the committee to look through this whole proposal carefully and to ensure that Finland moves towards a pan-European approach to travel.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u19	Thank you. — Representative Salmon, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u20	Mr President! Finland has been very successful in managing the corona pandemic from the point of view of protecting human health, and this is reflected in the fact that, as a whole, our gross domestic product has not collapsed in the same way as we feared. Well, we do have a number of sectors that have been in, you can say, financial and mental distress over the past year. One of them is the tourism industry, and the restaurant and event industries — these three in particular — are still in a very tragic situation, particularly in the tourism sector. That is why, as Mr Laukkanen has said here, this proposal has been long awaited, and I must say that it is too long. I believe that the proposal that has now been presented in the consultation has been very much improved. Important, essential corrections have been made to the government's proposal, but of course we must carefully deal with this in committee. We will carry out a wide-ranging consultation and will also ensure that, in practice, this can be complied with and applied here. The question is not only that we can somehow return the tourism industry to Finland — it is hugely important from the point of view of our employment, it is a question of thousands of jobs in tourism — but it is also a question of how we will ensure that Finnair, our international airline, is able to return at some level to the level it has been. This is not just a matter of travelling; it is a question of security of supply and it is a question of how Finland's international trade can be conducted in the future. This is also a matter of enormous importance for our security of supply and for the growth of the business world, and that is why we must ensure this. And you can count on the committee to be very thorough in dealing with this issue, but at the same time, of course, we feel the pressure on its timetable and we will do our best to ensure that, before Parliament is left on summer leave, this will be on the table in this Chamber. This is a duty for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u21	Thank you. — And Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u22	Mr President! As the chairman of the committee, Mr Salmon, said earlier, the situation in Finland is very good at the moment in terms of the treatment of corona. We have a number of statistical sources, but when I quickly looked at the summary of Helsingin Sanomat this morning, which brings together some European countries, the situation in Finland — 20 — was the best of them, and only Israel was clearly lower. It was worrying that, for example, in the UK, which has a higher vaccination coverage than in Finland, the incidence rate was 161, which was the highest we had in March. The situation in hospitals has also improved significantly. However, it draws my attention to the fact that, a year ago, at the same time as mid-June, we had 2 patients in intensive care, so we now have 11, although we now have vaccines in use, which is precisely what has caused greater morbidity in these circumstances, and a very bad situation has been reported at neighbouring borders, such as Russia. So the problem is not our own situation, it is in other countries, and now that we all want to open up transport, we must of course ensure that we do so in a way that at the same time protects the health of our own people. This extensive bill can be summarised in five points: Finns can always return to their country of origin. That is quite clear. That is all there is to it. Then, if it is foreign, then if they have suffered from corona disease within less than six months and there is a clear, reliable evidence of it, they can arrive in our country. The next case is that they have received the entire course of this vaccination, practically two vaccines. Then there will be no problems in this regard. If they come to the border and do not have a test certificate at all, they shall be tested within 24 hours and then another test shall be carried out within 72 to 120 hours. If they have a negative test certificate less than 72 hours old, they will be required to have the second test here in the country of origin in 72 to 120 hours. In these ways we will be able to ensure that the health of our own country is preserved and yet we will be able to significantly increase traffic. As we in Europe as a whole get-up of the vaccination series is increasing rapidly all the time, it is predicted that we will be in a situation in which tourism is almost completely restored from the end of autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u23	Thank you. — Mr Mykkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u24	Mr President! In Finland, the administration of corona has mostly been better than the analogue countries, good for that — thanks to the Finns and to this hall and also to the government's work and officials. In general, I would say that such a certain risk, which is inevitable in such situations, is that we will be trapped in its success. This can now be compared to how Nokia, mobile phone Nokia, once found it difficult to introduce new parts and new success factors into their phones after 20 years of a highly successful recipe was invented — then it is always difficult for the winner to change his business. And here, although quite in a different context, there is now a slight risk that once we have been very successful, it may be more difficult for us to notice if the operating environment changes so that the risks are clearly lower than six months ago. Now that there are vaccines and now that we have learned to limit the effects of the disease in less harmful ways, as it were, we must remember all the time that if the balance changes so that these restrictions on us begin to cause more suffering, more exclusion, more problems through unemployment, then it is possible that we may start to harm ourselves, as it were, by making more restrictions than our control country. And as far as this government proposal is concerned, of course it is good that it is finally here in the Chamber, and it is important that Parliament legislates before we get to the summer break, but at this point, the risk of becoming a prisoner of success is, of course, particularly of a significant number of Finnish tourism and services jobs, but also, just as the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Salmon, has well said, of Finnair's strategic position in the long term, which is based on the fact that we will quickly regain competitiveness in the transport between Asia and Europe and between America and Europe. Now, too, there is a risk that if the traffic arriving here in Finland is not normally able to return to the competitor countries, then the whole construction of this pattern will be put at risk and can have long-term effects. Of course, attention will be paid in these details to this requirement for another test in a situation where a person has been subjected to one negative test in the country of origin less than 72 hours before arriving in Finland. In this regard, I was left with the impression that the THL's statement is also similar to the idea that they might feel that this could be abandoned faster than the government's proposal: until mid-October this second test in Finland would be required. And I hope that in this regard in particular the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will deal with this issue in a balanced and open-minded manner and will not stick to it, because the government's proposal in this regard is different from what the majority of the EU countries are doing and may cause too much harm to our tourism in relation to the benefit that will then be achieved in health safety by other means. The other side is where Mr Zyskowicz in particular drew attention to the fact that we need to maintain the possibility that a person will come without a test in the country of origin, possibly linking up to thousands of people to the testing activities carried out here at Finnish ports and airports, when this medical staff resource could certainly be in the most essential use, and why could we not require that people have a test certificate as part of the corona certificate that this test has been carried out, so that we could use the rest of the staff more rationally? In this respect, I would suggest that this should also be sent to the Committee on Transport and Communications because this situation in ports and airports is critical for the implementation of this law as a whole. But, Mr President, in general, I would also like to appeal to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to show open-mindedness in this matter — hopefully in doing their work well from their own point of view — and to be able to shape this law in such a way that we really have not only health safety in the autumn but also soundly built for the recovery of our tourism and the survival of Finnair. In practice, we are already selling spring next year, especially in the case of Lapland, and if we have a code that is clearly more complex than most of our competitors, then it will inevitably have an impact on how Finns get jobs and how many of the long-term effects of the corona will then be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u25	Now the 45 minutes reserved for this debate in advance are coming to an end. I'll give Secretary Kiuru three minutes. This matter shall then be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u26	Mr President! In 3 minutes it will be difficult to answer all these questions, but I will try as quickly as possible. First of all, the question was raised as to how the conditions of the Constitutional Committee might have led to this decision-making power from the point of view of these other players not being allowed to be laid down in this legislative proposal. Last October there was a wide-ranging debate on whether this ex ante verification task could have been made available to transport service providers and operators. In this regard, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has taken a position on this issue in the past and, in practice, it is precisely the question of whether it is constitutionally possible to assign such powers to these transport operators. In this respect, the matter was examined and I agree with the same assessment of this issue as Mr Zyskowicz, for example, in this Chamber. Once again, we are in a situation where we do not disagree very much on this issue, but in this composition, when this has been prepared with the various ministries, I am sorry to say that this obligation has become, precisely from the point of view of these fundamental rights, a greater obligation on the part of transport operators and transport service providers. On the other hand, the question of whether, for these other ministries, this remit can be extended: This is precisely what has been done. In this case, it has also been taken into account that Article 89 specifically provides for the provision of official assistance, and so the police and Customs have the right, in order to carry out the task of auxiliary service, to verify, inter alia, the identity and the content of the certificate referred to in Article 16(a) presented by the person and to take over the document for inspection, i.e. it is involved there. There was also a great deal of discussion here about the possibility of reducing the pressure on health safety actors. I also agree that we should get as much power out of this work in practice from these borders as possible, so that it will then be transferred to the country of origin for assessment, so that people always have a certificate or a vaccine certificate when they arrive. And now this is exactly what has been done on that side of Minister Ohio, so you will have noticed on Thursday these border decisions, which are going to go for the very next step to increase passenger flows from the point of view that there will be a lot of these proofs. It was otherwise apparent already this weekend in our border traffic that people today have a great deal of these certificates. Could it have been completely released? Unfortunately, there are also the locks that have been mentioned in the past. There were a lot of good questions here, but unfortunately now I have no more time, but we can still talk in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u27	Representative I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u28	Mr President! Mr Mykkänen said in his speech that this matter would also be sent to the Committee on Transport and Communications, and it is precisely this opportunity for transport service providers to check these certificates already in the country of origin. Mr President! I am in favour of this representative. I'm going to shut down the show.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u29	Thank you. — The debate and proceedings are now suspended. The proceedings will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u30	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — Debate, Mr Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u31	Irade fru talman! Det au lagförslaget kan i kärsta fall i practicen betyda en kraftig skärpning av gränsrestrictionnerna för Åland. Det är något jag och vi på Åland ser som helt omotiverat, och vi skulle önska att man klargjorde detta i lagförslaget så att alla som i dag har rätt att resa in i Finland och på Åland inte kommer få mer byråkrati eller krav, utan kan fortsätta resa in till Finland och till Åland precis som hits under hela pandemin. Under pandemic har ingen dött av covid-19 på Åland och pandemic har hela tiden variant under control. Det är vi glada för, men samtidigt som vi klarat pandemic extreme bra halsomässigt har vi dragbats valdigt hårt ekonomiskt. Om det inte finns hälsomassiga motiv att skärpa gränskirtjanna i practiceken är förslaget mycket problematiskt. Samtidigt vaccineras nu människor så fort som vi bara får mer vaccin, och situationen förbättras också i Sverige hela tiden. Irade the Talman! Några saker som bekymrar oss är följande: För det första, i dag har markkägare, stugägare och personer med familjeanledning rätt att resa in på Åland eller till Finland utan test. Med det au lagförslaget måste man i fortsättningen ha ett negativt test. Jag skulle muro fråga ministern, om Hon skulle reserve bull, viiket Hon inte längre är, om det öjligt att fortsättningsvis få de rai grupperna undantagna. Alla har inte hunnit få två doser vaccin ännu, och det rai lagförslaget kommer nu med extreme kort framförhållning, precis innan riksdagens sommarpaus. För det andra: Hur är det tänkt att man på Åland i practiceken ska ordna med dessa controler då de inre gräns controlerna avslutas? Hittills har det variant Gränsbevakningsväsendet som skott det, men hur kommer det i practiceken att bli i fortsättningen på Åland ifall de lokala älsovårdsmyndigheterna inte har resorter? Ålands landskapsregering har upprepade gånger ställt den rai frågan till social- och älsovårdsministeriet utan att få några svar på de rai frågorna. För det tredje: Hur ska man trygga testningskapaciteten på Åland? För tilfället är testkaciteten ungefär 120 test per dugn. Det kan maximalt bli ungefär 200-300 test per dygn, men det kommer inte räcka då det kan komba 1000 inresande per dygn och vis ska testas två gånger. Hur är det då tänkt att detta ska tryggas i practicekken? Vad heider om resurserna inte finns för att uppfylla lagen i practicekken? För det fjärde: Fritidsbåtar är i dag undantagna av den enkla anledningen att det i practiceken inte går att kolla dem. Med detta lagförslag inkluderas de, men hur är det tänkt att de ska controleras i practicekken? Bara på Åland finns ett thiotal gästhamnar. Även om gränsbevakningen skulle kolle alaa båtar, viiket man inte ens har resorter till, så skulle det kräva så mycket [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u36	Representative Sarkomaa absent, representative Keto-Huovinen absent, representative Multala absent, representative Kauma absent. — Mr Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u37	Madam President! The government's proposal to amend the Act on communicable diseases temporarily is necessary. As the pandemic subsides, we need to get involved in the opening up of the world. Although health still needs to be protected, we cannot continue, at least in the long run, to travel more strictly than other countries. The tourism sector has been in distress for a long time. It now needs a clear view of how to start reconstruction and how to carry out travel. We're selling trips for the next year. We should be able to look further away. It is particularly important to open up commuting. Foreign labour, including seasonal labour, is very necessary for us. In many areas, we depend on foreign expertise. Mr President! The effective normalisation of tourism to our neighbouring neighbours Sweden and Estonia must be done as soon as possible. The situation in Sweden and Estonia is, of course, different. The restrictions have already been relaxed on some points in Estonia, where the disease situation has improved, as in Finland, and as a whole it is beginning to be under control. In addition to commuting, it must also be possible to open up neighbouring tourism, but, above all, it is now important to get commuting started in an efficient way. People must be able to meet their families, as Prime Minister Kaja Kallas of Estonia has hoped. The strict provisions, at least in the light of infection rates and as vaccination progresses, are no longer justified for Estonia. I hope that tourism with neighbouring countries will be smooth as soon as possible. I also hope that our relations with these close neighbours will be restored as much as possible after the major challenges. It's in the best interests of all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u38	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 5. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the report by Mr StVM 16/2021 is decided at the sole reading on the notification and then at the second reading on the legislative proposals. — Debate, Mr Tanus, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u39	Mr President! Social reform, these much wider shoulders, is needed. Especially because of the plight of smaller municipalities, better social protection is much to be expected. Reform is needed to improve access to patient studies, treatment and rehabilitation, to strengthen basic health care and to create integrated care paths, to obtain equal services, to reduce health inequalities, to reduce costs and so on. In addition to the public sector, a private sector and a third sector need to work closely together in order to secure well-functioning services that meet the needs of the public sector. This important role is also played by public-owned, central services provided by Heart Hospital and Artificial Joint Hospital Coxa. The preconditions for all of these must be improved and made more flexible, not more difficult. At the same time, adequate funding must also be provided, taking into account the specific situation of growth centres and the role of university hospitals, both in terms of adequate and high-quality training for health care staff and in terms of research. At the same time, there should be incentives for cost control and real democracy should also be realised. Unfortunately, this proposal for social protection does not meet many of these or many other objectives. During the longer period, the negative effects of the estimates will be even for smaller municipalities. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs made it possible to make many corrections to the proposal. However, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health made only the most necessary changes required by the Constitutional Committee. Instead of the committee's corrections, a long list of statements was added to the report, i.e. a long series of amendments to the proposal. No matter what the opinion of the social welfare proposal, you cannot put out so brutally, so incomplete and, in the opinion of the committee itself, many amendments and points of order. Therefore, Mr President, I shall make a motion. I propose that the government's bill be rejected. I will also make the following 18 statements: ‘The Commission requires the government to become involved in measures to correctthe ‘The Parliament requires the Government to abandon its ‘The Commission requires the Government tosubmit a proposal to correctthesub-contracting of social ‘The Commission requires the government to become involved in actions which can ‘The Commission requires the Government to bring forward as quickly as possible a proposal to clarify Further, ‘the Commission requires the Government to clarify the possibilities to transfer well-being to the regional elections at a time It is of paramount importance for the democratic process that the elections are conducted properly.” ‘The Parliament requires the government to become involved in actions to enable elected representatives of the The presence of the same persons in the municipal council and the welfare district council is problematic in terms of time and the exceptional beginning of the parliamentary term of the welfare councils has not made it possible to choose the level of decision-making, as in the future, if elections are held at the same time.” ‘The Commission requires the government to take action I would also like to add: ‘The Commission requires that the government ensure private care while maintaining the Kela compensation Without private care, the queues of public health care will grow unsustainablely and people’s right to timely care will be jeopardised. “ ‘The Commission requires the Government to monitor the ‘The Commission requires the government to set up an effective monitoring system to monitor access to Monitoring must be comprehensive and must take the necessary corrective measures to ensure fair and good care throughout the country.” ‘The Commission requires the government to become involved in actions to improve the level and availability ‘The Commission requires the government to engage in action to improve the healthservices of women and ‘The Commission calls for the government to become involved in action to improve the health of ‘The Commission requires that the government engages in immediate action to ensure and monitor that patients’ studies, treatment and rehabilitation ‘The Commission requires that the government engages in immediate action to ensure adequate open services for Mr President, two further proposals, if I can read them in the same way: ‘The Commission requires the government to engage in immediate action to secure the tasks of university “ Finally, ‘the Commission calls for the government to become involved in measures to ensure the potential of growth centres for effective and sustainableinvestments and Here are 18 proposals for statements. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u40	Thank you. — Representative Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u41	Mr President! The aim of the Sote reform has been to improve access to care, to create a sustainable financing base and to improve the equality of the population. Unfortunately, this reform does not meet these objectives and I support the rejection of the draft law by Mr Tanus. The Assembly also objects to statements 1 to 5, 7 to 19 and to statements distributed separately. I am going to go over these statements made by the Assembly: Declaration 1: ‘The Board of Directors shall not delay the adoption of a proposal to ensure the modern operation ofthe public-owned companies providing social 2: ‘The Commission requires that the Government does not delay the adoption of a proposal to the Parliament to ensure “ 3.‘The Commission requires the Government not to bring a proposal to the 4: ‘The Commission requires the Government not to bring a proposal to the Parliament to ensure that the special service 5. ‘The Commission requires that the government immediately engages in the necessary And the following: ‘The Commission requires that the serviceprovider’s law be prepared and used as an ‘The Commission requires the government to immediately become involved in the necessary ‘The Commission requires the government to become directly involved in the necessary ‘The Commission requires that the government immediately engages in the necessary measures ‘The Board of Directors shall require the Government to present a draft ‘The Commission requires that the specific characteristics of growth cities,such asimmigration, foreign language,social needs,maintenance and exclusion,are taken into account in funding.’ ‘The Commission requires that the organisation and production ‘The Commission requires that the Government adopts a “ ‘The Commission requires the Government to bring an urgent proposal for the ‘The Commission requires that the possibility for self-employed ‘The Commission requires that the Government,in a timely manner,submit a proposal for a financing model to “ ‘The Board of Directors shall require that the ‘The Commission calls for the preparation of social and health services to And then there are the statements which have been distributed separately: ‘The Commission requires that the Government immediatelypromotes the Parliament’s legislative proposal,in which the overall timetable for ‘The Commission requires the Government to ensure the ‘The Commission requires that the Board of Directors urgently submit a draft ‘The Commission requires that the Government,in a timely manner,subsequentlysubsequently submit a draft law in which local ‘The Commission requires that the Government does not delay the adoption of ‘The Commission requires that the government does not delay the adoption of “ ‘The Commission requires that cooperation with the fire “ ‘The Commission shall require that the adequacy of Mr President! Here was a long list of statements on the shortcomings of this proposal. Much more could have been done, but some of them have been mentioned here, those that are necessary to correct if this bill goes through.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u42	Thank you. — Mr Juvonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u43	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Group of the Finnish People's Party and the Finnish Parliament consider the Government's proposal to reform the organisation of social welfare and health care and rescue services to be essentially a failure and considers that there are no conditions for the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in it as such. As a group of Finns, we would also have tabled a rejection motion for this package of laws, but we are now in favour of a rejection motion. We have tabled statements, and here I present to you the statements made by the Finns on this social welfare package. Declaration 1: ‘The Commission requires the Government to assess the adequacy and equal availability of disability services in the whole country,andthe reform will reduce Declaration 2: ‘The Board of Directors requires that,as part of the implementation of the reform,theimplementing of the role of carers Statement 3: ‘The Commission requires that,as part of the board of directors,the implementation Declaration 4: ‘The Commission requires that the government, as part of the reform’s implementation of measures to ensure the availability of essential social, health Declaration 5: ‘The Board of Directors requires that,as part of the reform,implement measures to monitor the Declaration 6: ‘The Commission requires that the government, as part of the reform’simplementation of measures to ensure the availability of good and equivalent treatment This statement is very relevant. Declaration 7: ‘The Board of Directors shall, as a follow-up to the reform, ensure adequate management “ Declaration 8: ‘The Commission calls for the implementation of the reform measures as part of the government to increase the Declaration 9: ‘The Commission requires the Government to ensure that the service levels of Kemin and Declaration 10: ‘The Commission requires that,as part of the government’sreform,the implementation of measures to ensure adequate Declaration 11: ‘The Commission requires that,as part of the government,the implementation of the reform must beimplementedto Declaration 12: ‘The Commission requires that,as part of the government,the implementation ofreform measures to ensure equalaccess to school health services Declaration 13: ‘The Commission requires the Government to follow up the reform’s implementation of information system projects and, where appropriate, Declaration 14: ‘The Commission requires that,as part of the government,the implementation ofreform measures to ensure theinaccessibility of digital social and Declaration 15: ‘The Commission requires the government to clarify the realrequirement of the rescue operation’srequirementsandto focus on corrective measures alreadyin the context of the Declaration 16: ‘The Commission requires the government to ensure thatthe reform,in particular in the growing urban areas,isnotfailed to reducethe threat Declaration 17: ‘The Commission requires that the government does not make use of a county tax to increase the overall Mr President, I have a few more statements to make if I can read them quickly. Declaration 18: ‘The Commission requires the Government to clarify,in the context of the election of the well-beingregions,the implementation of regional Declaration 19: ‘The Commission requires the Government to ensurethat companies such as Coxa, Heart Hospitals andFimlab, which are owned by municipalities and well-beingregions,are part ofthe reform of their Declaration 20: ‘The Commission requires the Government to actively monitor cost efficiency in different well-being areas and to develop financing Declaration 21: ‘The Commission requires the Government to monitor additional funding applications for welfareregions and to correctthe level of funding,so Statement 22: ‘The Commission requires the Government to monitor investments in well-beingareas and measures for the correction of the debt Declaration 23: ‘The Commission requires the Government to enable the necessary number of staff to be And then, lastly, Declaration 24: ‘The Commission requires the government to step up its efforts to ensure that the revenue from the national taxis not cut off from one municipality in the context of reform,the proportion - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u44	It's a good fit for seven minutes. — Ms Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u45	Mr President! Firstly, I support both the motion for rejection tabled by Mr Tanus, which I think has already received support from Mr Tanus, and the 18 motions for statements made by Mr Tanus. Mr President! A few more words about this war, and perhaps, above all, I would also like to draw attention to some of these statements by the Christian Democrats. We in the Group therefore have a situation where we do not have a proper seat in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, when this influence on such a large package is largely dependent on this Chamber work. Of course, we have obtained a reserve as an additional location for the so-called corona period, but it can be said that we have been a little bit on the sidelines. Mr Tanus has been well involved in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I have signed the Committee on Finance, and we have also been able to make these comments. Mr President! Perhaps all in all for this social reform: The Christian Democrats are among the parties who see that we do need social reform and we also need those so-called wider shoulders. We know many as representatives of small municipalities where municipalities are in difficulty with the growing costs of social welfare and health care. But then, perhaps the most problematic aspect of this government proposal is that it would have been a good thing to make an excellent proposal, but unfortunately there was no time or political will to go ahead with these comments made by many experts in that committee, then, to move on to the actual proposals for amendments, that is to say, mainly to focus solely on the necessary amendments tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In other respects, there were different wishes and, as it were, lunches for the future. And yet this incompleteness is one of the main reasons why the KD Group, for example, sees that this proposal is unacceptable. We also see problems with this funding, and we know that, in this funding, these coefficients have already been recalculated by the government by THL, but we nevertheless see the main problem of the inadequacy of this funding and, on the other hand, the structure of this funding, which in the future will lead to the fact that this proposal does not have a real element in controlling cost growth. Of course, the third negative in this proposal is this regional tax, which is being introduced by the government as a basis for funding. Knowing that this funding will not be enough as it is, then we want to be in the process of imposing a provincial tax. This regional tax was examined in a committee of experts appointed by the government itself, which also had full parliamentary representation, and when the committee work clearly came to an end to the fact that the financing of this proposal for social welfare does not fit as a basis for regional tax, then, politically, this work in the government has been non-salted and overturned and, nevertheless, is being prepared for this regional tax. And here is actually the KD's statement number 2, which is that we really want this preparation and introduction of the regional tax to be abandoned. I believe that, of course, these regional elections or the social welfare elections, which is what they want to be said now, the time — and there is a hurry to do so — will be a defeat for this performance, because we have just lost sight of the municipal elections. I do not know whether the Ministry understands the pressure on party offices and party organisations to live under elections. It is completely incomprehensible that we should be in the election situation again in six months' time, and that candidate recruitment should begin almost immediately. In addition to this, I do not know which ministry has been able to think in such an absurd way that the numbers will come for information just before Christmas, if we stick to these normal periods, which means that, between Christmas and the New Year, we will then have party offices beating up numbers and brochures and posters in the printing houses and going into the election work directly from the point of view of the Epiphany. In some ways it seems that if such a massive reform is being carried out in Finland, would it not be worth the time that citizens really want to take part in these elections and have an understanding of what the elections are taking place, and that the candidates would be excited to do this election work, and not that we are likely to do a bottom-up quote in voting percentages and voting turnout of all time, and, unfortunately, then, unfortunately, these things may be very weakly dealt with, which is what we are about to decide. Mr President! Perhaps I should like to highlight these comments made by the KD on subcontracting, among other things, these comments on the important role played by small and medium-sized enterprises and organisations in the provision of services. It is extremely important that these bodies can continue to be producers in the future and that, hopefully, different service voucher schemes in the future, for example, for people with disabilities, can ensure this through personal budgeting. It has also been important for us to secure these conditions for rehabilitating work and workshops. There is also a statement in the government's proposal, but this seems particularly strange that, in a sense, the municipality is not able to organise the central activity, while at the same time the municipalities are moving responsibility for employment from the TE Centres, so that these two things should go hand in hand seamlessly. And, Mr President, perhaps last but not least, I would like to raise the issue of mental health services here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u46	Thank you. — And Mr Laukkanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u47	Mr President! I support the motion for rejection tabled by Mr Tanus and the statements made by Mr Tanus. This social welfare reform is the result of a long effort, and I do think that Finns deserve a social welfare reform and a good one. The first working group in which I have been involved in this reflection began its work in 2008. Today we are here and the day after tomorrow we will press the button and see what happens. The price of the service is rising, availability is falling, services will focus on large units. I happen to have a summer home on Somero. No Somero believes that Somero’s brilliant health center will survive, but that all its functions will be transferred to Salo or to another neighborhood as much as possible. This social welfare reform should support the local service principle, the subsidiarity principle, in such a way that every Finn can experience that his health is not at a distance. My father in Savonlinna had to be taken by ambulance to Kuopio, as a result of paralysis of the heart muscle. These are these everyday issues that should be strengthened by this reform, which should provide security to the local authorities, but this is not what is happening with this reform. Well, for my hometown of Espoo, this reform is a disaster. That means some 70 to 90 million losses. As we all know, Espoo has invested enormously, not only in the interests of the Espoans, but in the interests of the whole country. It is one of these growth areas that produce good for the whole of Finland. Almost all of our health-related properties are new, in fine condition and huge investments. In this reform no one will finally know at what price they will move to welfare areas, who will eventually pay the debts, which is the rent that the welfare areas will pay for these properties. A national average rent price of this kind will be envisaged. Everyone understands that the square in Kainuu is slightly different from the one in Espoo next to the track. The equation just doesn't work. [The President knocks ] Nor do I understand that any espoon MP could vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u50	Thank you. — Mr Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u51	Mr President, I hope to be able to speak without a mask when I want to go round with a mask. - Thank you. In this speech, ladies and gentlemen, I am raising the issue of social security from a constitutional point of view and a little backwards, although I understand that, in this situation, of course, these aspects are not of great interest to this House. Perhaps one day a constitutional researcher will be interested in what I am now saying, and fortunately, Mr Rinne, who, as a former chairman of the Constitutional Committee, will certainly be interested in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u54	Okay, thank you. — Representative Ari Koponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u55	Mr President! I support the statements made by Mr Juvonen. On the whole, I regard this proposal for social protection as a great failure and, like my group, I do not see the conditions for its adoption. In this speech, I would like to highlight one particularly important flaw: the organisation of student and study care. After all, the draft law is changing it completely from now on, yet when preparing the proposal, no statements have even been requested from the Teachers' Trade Union or the Psychological or Curator Association. [Left: Yes!] For preventive and collaborative work to be successful, it must be done at school as part of everyday activities. In addition, if you go to a new model, the organiser of the study care has the possibility to apply for the student’s permission to be absent during the visit to the services. You can only be absent from basic education if the permit has been granted. If the student does not want his/her guardian to know about the use of the services, the student must apply for permission to be absent. The government understands this, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u56	Congressman Sarkkinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u57	Mr President! A long-running reform of the social economy is now finally going to the finish line. Last week there was a long debate on this subject and I myself took the floor to open the ground for the reform, to the basic solutions chosen and to comment on the need for further preparation. I am not going to repeat the content of my speech last week, but I am now focusing on a number of issues relating to the implementation of the reform and the development of services. Mr President! According to research data, the number of outpatient visits to primary health care in Finland has decreased in the 2000s and, at the same time, the number of outpatient visits to special care has increased almost in a similar way. The situation is likely to reflect in part the structural problems of access to basic health care and the system that the social welfare reform is now trying to address. Thus, in the current structure, the service structure is distorted in an inappropriate way. Problems with access to basic health care services increase visits and costs of special care, people’s problems can worsen when basic services are not provided smoothly and socio-economic health inequalities increase. Strengthening basic health services is essential in terms of cost-effectiveness and reducing welfare inequalities. Strengthening basic services is therefore a key objective of the social welfare reform. Mr President! Studies show that the continuity of the care relationship is essential for the quality and effectiveness of basic health services. The research data justify in particular the benefits of the designated self-medical system. According to the studies, when the patient has been designated as a specialist, the total cost of health care is reduced, admission to the on-call clinic is reduced, the need for special care visits is reduced, the need for special care sections is reduced, the inappropriate over-use of health services is reduced, the diagnosis becomes earlier sick, the quality of treatment is improved, the treatment is controlled and the forecast is improved, the commitment to treatment and patient satisfaction is improved, patient safety is improved and the mortality rate is reduced, and the satisfaction of doctors is improved. The research results relate to the primary health care system, but it is likely that the same benefits may also be generated by self-care models and other models that focus on the continuity of the treatment relationship. Of course, a well-functioning self-doctor model requires sufficient doctors and prioritising of primary health care so that doctors do not become overly responsible for their population. In addition, it should require the development of teamwork alongside itself. However, as a whole, the development of this type of model may reduce the needs and costs of services. Mr President! Strengthening basic health services is one of the key objectives of the social welfare reform and a prerequisite for the success of its objective and other objectives. I hope that the strengthening of basic services in the regions will be included as a strategic objective of regional preparation for social services, and I hope that self-employed models will be examined and taken as a starting point for implementation. In order to strengthen access to basic health care and care, I hope that the strengthening of the basic health care guarantee will be brought to Parliament as soon as possible. In addition to the structure and financing model that makes better services possible, a binding driver is needed to speed up access to treatment, both in mental and physical distress. In particular, Finns expect the availability of low-threshold psychosocial support and mental health services to be restored throughout Finland. Mr President! Many speakers have said that social services have been forgotten in the reform. It is not true that social services are part of the reform and have been taken into account both in the government's proposal and in the committee's report, but it is true that public and political debate has largely revolved around health care. Social services are an essential part of our social services system and I hope that the reform will also help to develop social services. Elderly and disability services, child protection and family work, social work and social rehabilitation and other social services are absolutely essential for the smooth and well-being of people. In particular, I hope that the integration of social and health services can be achieved at a genuinely practical level, and also in social services, towards a service structure that invests in prevention. Prevention is cheaper, both humanly and economically. It is particularly important that the groups of people who need a lot of services and their seamless service chain are specifically taken into account in the implementation of the reform in the region. Integration between social and health services is particularly important for those who need a lot of services. If people are helped in a timely and smooth manner without unnecessary bureaucracy and blundering, they can support people's well-being and ability to function and manage people's problems in a timely and preventive manner. The integration of services for people who need a lot of services and the success of smooth service chains is key from the point of view of both the economic objectives of social welfare reform and the objective of reducing health inequalities. Mr President! It has been criticised here that the reform is not complete and that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has given a number of impetus to further preparation. I personally see that the reform of this scale cannot be complete and it is clear that the legislation of Finnish social and health services requires continuous development. However, the basic pieces are now in place and it is time to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u58	Thank you. — Mr Kinnunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u59	Mr President! The Sote reform is historic: we secure people's everyday services, and sufficient funding is also provided across Finland. Even small municipalities survive, they do not have to raise their taxes because of services. The operators and workers in the sector have been waiting for this reform for a very long time. They will now be able to develop services further. It is better for our country to bring reform to the finish line now than not to do it. As the population gets smaller and older, we ensure services throughout Finland. This objective will inevitably also require a levelling-out of funding. Small municipalities cannot survive without wider shoulders, migration-loss areas need support to treat the sick. The reform will not be completed at the same time, it is clear that repairs are needed. Bringing such a big reform together to the finish line is quite impossible. However, the whole is as good as it is, good enough. Mr President! The regions must have a sufficient number of their own production, but it is good that the percentage is not defined. The Northern Ostrobothnia cooperative model can be continued. Preparations have progressed well there, and we are very much looking forward to the decision of Wednesday. Although doubts have been expressed about the effectiveness of the reform, it does not make the reform less necessary. This has been twisted for over 15 years, many models have fallen into constitutional problems. There are no such fundamental problems. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took account of earlier Committee opinions. Of course, the social models have been very different over the years. In the end, no one will be able to complete such a major reform once and for all. A series of repairs is needed on the basis of experience. The issues raised in this debate should also be taken into account in the follow-up and further development of the reform. It is worth noting that every social model needs financial compensation if we want to maintain a well-being society evenly. In sparsely populated areas, knowledgeable people are also growing here in the capital region. A lot of people who have done their job here and paid their taxes here come back to the country of origin for retirement. The pandemic has also shown that not everyone should live in a cramped city, that a decentralized society is crisis-proof and self-sufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u60	Thank you. — Representative Holopainen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u61	Mr President! Under the proposed arrangement, social and health services are transferred to municipalities or welfare areas. At the same time, municipal tax revenues are transferred to the state. At this stage, it is primarily a question of administrative reform rather than of substantive reform. We are also talking about more than EUR 20 billion and, of course, about life and health. It is characteristic in this Parliament that the opposition is overly critical of the government's proposals and, on the other hand, the government parties are not always criticised when there is reason to do so. The assessment of the drafting of legislation and the expert hearings of Parliament did not provide any assurance that the model would undoubtedly bring improvements to social and health services, although this is possible. Particular attention was paid to the fact that the current financing solution does not contain sufficient incentives or effective restrictions, but ultimately increases in costs will be borne by the State. On the other hand, funding is also distributed on the basis of disease and not primarily on the basis of health promotion. There is also room for correction in the current social and health services. I myself would have liked to see amendments to three questions in this bill. First of all, activities remaining in municipalities — education and early childhood education in particular, which are quite major issues, especially in cities where the number of children and young people is growing rapidly, and which, in budgetary terms, are the biggest issue of local government after the wars — should have ensured funding. In this model, the same loans and responsibilities remain, for example, with regard to investment in education, but local government funding and tax revenues are reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u66	Congressman Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u68	Congressman Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u72	Thank you. — Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u78	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u80	Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u82	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u84	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u86	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u87	Madam President! I'm in favour. [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-06-21-ps-81.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
