ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u1	We obviously have some problems with the system, but let's see if this works.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. After the presentation by Mr Haavisto, 10 minutes, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches that have been requested in advance. There are no group statements. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. And if this system of ours gives us the opportunity, then there will be a debate after the presentation of the Foreign Minister. — Foreign Minister Haavisto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u3	Mr President! A report has been submitted to the Parliament yesterday on the deployment of a military force in Kabul Airport to support and protect the ongoing evacuation operation in Finland. The report is part of the decision-making procedure of the Law on the provision and request of international assistance, through which the Parliament is consulted on the granting of assistance before the final decision of the President of the Republic. The Act is now applicable for the first time since its entry into force in 2017. The opportunity provided for in the law to provide international assistance is more topical than ever. The security situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated significantly over the last few days. The situation is very unpredictable. This requires the evacuation from the country of Finnish citizens who have requested consular assistance in Afghanistan and of Afghan residents permanently resident in Finland, as well as of persons in accordance with the decisions taken by the Government at the General Assembly on 13 August and 15 August — some 170 persons in total.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u4	Mr President! For the first time, Finland, by its own decision, sends an unsolicited military force outside the borders of the country. This will be done by applying the law on the provision of international military assistance. The purpose of the sending soldiers is to assist officials at the airport, to assist in the evacuation of the Finns who have requested consular assistance, as the Minister also mentioned. Their work makes it possible for Finland to have its own window of time, in which case the people on the list will be tried to get to the airport through the gate. There is very little time for the operation, as the United States has announced that the West will have to leave field 27.8. by the end of this period. Mr President! Finland had to decide to send its own soldiers to the region because the EU was once again incapacitated. The EU’s fighting forces are its rapid response forces in crisis management.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u5	Thank you. — Representative Judgments, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u7	Congressman Pelkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u8	Mr President! The representative of the Court of Justice made a good speech. We all know that the situation in Afghanistan is critical and unpredictable. And as Minister Haavisto has already said, the evacuation mission in Finland should be completed as soon as possible. The security operation must be initiated as soon as possible. The clock's ticking. There's no time to lose. We're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u9	Thank you. — My representative, Mr. Kulmun, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u10	Mr President! This is a very exceptional decision, which has been the subject of parliamentary scrutiny. And, of course, the situation that has changed very quickly has come as a surprise to the Western world, even though intelligence has apparently been available. As the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs said, there is obviously only a week's window of time for action, and in order to get the Finnish citizens out of there, the people who assisted the Finnish State should be sent out of there. But this is very exceptional and, of course, it is quite desirable not to have to go into operations like this. In the course of this debate, our legislation may also have revealed some points to be clarified. Some countries have been able to react more quickly. Of course, it is good that Finnish soldiers cannot be sent anywhere lightly, but in order to get the Finnish citizens out of the middle of the crisis now, this should of course be put forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u11	Thank you. — Representative Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u12	Mr President! The evacuation operation and the security team are both necessary and urgent. In Afghanistan, many Finnish citizens who have worked for Finland are waiting for help, in addition to human rights defenders and defenders of women's rights, many whose family members are in Finland. I am surprised that our legislation allowing evacuations, such as the crisis management or foreign law, did not allow for a more flexible procedure capable of reacting quickly in an emergency of this kind, where days and hours may also solve lives. I therefore hope that, following this acute situation, we will be able to look at this legislation and see how such a security operation can be launched quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u13	Thank you. — Mr Mustajärvi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u14	Mr President! The report estimates that there are also risks in the withdrawal operation. Currently, the United States and other countries dominate Kabul Airport and its nearby land areas and even receive support from the Taliban for the transport of passengers. But if the situation tightens up, where the threat exists, air traffic could end completely, as the Taliban were able to take over, among other things, modern missiles and a huge number of other equipment. How has this risk been assessed?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u15	Thank you. — Ledamot Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u16	Irade the Talman! Man har gjort rai goda iaktagelser om vår lagstiftning och det uppenbara factum att den till alla delar inte svarar mot den rai situationen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u17	Mr President! The Christian Democrats consider it important that this evacuation operation be carried out as quickly as possible. Just as the Minister said, there is no indication of how long the US security operation in that region, the Kabul field, will continue. The situation in Afghanistan has many consequences that the international community will have to consider. At their informal meeting, EU foreign ministers had listed, among other things, the migration disaster and the instrumenting of refugees as threats to the future, and this raises the question, which is why the European Council has not been convened to avoid and prepare for these serious sanctions. I would have asked the Prime Minister if Finland could now be proactive in this respect. Just as has been mentioned here, the question arises as to why the EU's rapid reaction forces are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u18	Congressman Turtiainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u19	Thank you, Mr President. A lot of questions arise when you read the report. Is this operation really designed for the Finns in distress? Or is there perhaps a consul ride for a thousand Afghans to Finland's Kela? It is clear, at least, that Finland's laws are being stretched again in order to promote green left ideology. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u20	Congressman Kiljunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u21	Mr President! Here we are in a situation where there is a genuine acute emergency and it is a matter of human life, including the safety of Finnish citizens and the lives of people. It goes without saying that this evacuation operation is urgent and necessary, important overall, and these protective forces are obviously also necessary. The law on the provision of international assistance would also allow for an urgent, rapid procedure which would have allowed this operation to be carried out very quickly, immediately. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is unanimous in this. It is not my competence to judge the legal interpretation that this has, however, been considered to be a lack of urgency here, and someone may be surprised that we are now in a hurry to act in accordance with the usual non-urgent decision-making procedure. I would also like to ask you a few questions about whether we are actually prisoners of such a legal interpretation in that we are not able to act quickly in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u22	Thank you. — Mrs Packalén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u23	Mr President! I do not want to prolong this debate any further, there have been many good speeches here, but I wanted to raise my concerns about the safety of the people responsible for the security of the embassy. We are now leaving a large number of people there who have risked their own lives for the security of the embassy, and I think this is a rather dangerous example in the future when we think of a delegation in a crisis area where people take care of the safety of the Finnish embassy, that when the crisis gets worse there, will they stay there, will we leave them to their own devices? So this is such an example that we may have to pay an expensive price for it one day in an embassy or in a crisis nest. I wish we could do something about this. I understand that this is a difficult situation and this is the way it is, but I hope that a solution will be found. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u24	Thank you. — Representative Estonian, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u25	Mr President! The situation in Afghanistan is alive and, unfortunately, it is quite unpredictable. At the moment, the Taliban appear calm in the field, but we have already seen quite a lot of news from the international media that it is not a real picture of the situation. We know that the Taliban shadow regime has been working for 15 years on influencing, intelligence and targeting, and that is one of the reasons why Kabul's takeover was successful so quickly. One essential point is to point out that the Isis prisoners have also been released. In other words, this is an extremely critical situation, and the protection operation is fully justified in order to secure the people of Finland, permanently living in Finland and helping Finland on the ground. It is quite justified that the staff of the Defence Forces, who voluntarily go there, should be given a mandate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u26	Thank you. — Mr Vanhanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u27	Mr President! Foreign Minister Haavisto gave a rough picture of what the situation is. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, led by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niiko, has been monitoring the progress of the evacuation, hearing about the difficulties that exist, and there is a very clear consensus in the committee on the need for a protection department. We need to make a decision on this quickly. The Committee on Foreign Affairs will have to meet again after this sitting to produce a report, and there will then be another sitting. It takes minutes, it's up to us how long we spend on this. I say this, although there is a need for a broader political debate on the situation in Afghanistan — who should be helped first and foremost, what the future is — but it will need a debate later on. Now we need to make a decision about the Protection Department.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u28	Congressman Holopainen, Hanna, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u29	Mr President! We are certainly all well aware of the chaotic and unstable situation in Afghanistan. There's a great deal of concern about people's safety. Emergency, fear and panic have also been strongly transmitted to Finland. We have to help people to be safe. The deployment of a military force to assist in the safe conduct of this evacuation is clearly necessary, as has been pointed out here. The window of time for this is limited, and that is why, for my part, full support and credit for this operation and for the Defence Forces, which will be sent to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u30	Thank you. — Then Secretary of State Haavisto, 3 minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u31	Mr President! There have been some questions here, and I see that the image of Parliament is very similar to that of urgency and also of a very difficult situation in the field at the moment. Now I will take this legal issue once we have considered whether urgency could have been used here. In fact, the Chancellor of Justice has also been consulted here, and I must say that the articles and the arguments behind the national aid provided by this law are not written in exactly this situation, and it was therefore considered that this reporting procedure should be used here. This will probably be a further debate as to whether we should then be more specific. The possibility of providing official assistance to the Finnish authorities — which is out of the question here — and the application of the Military Crisis Management Act was also examined. There, too, was no refuge in such a situation. In fact, the law on the provision and reception of assistance would also require an international component not only to be provided to the Finns. And here comes the international component of our commitment to support some of the EU's staff and those in the service of the crisis management operation, but perhaps it is precisely the fact that legislation is clearly not written for this particular situation. The representative of Mustajärvi brought up even more of these threats. Could this air transport be completely disrupted in Kabul because of some measures or safety deviations? I'm sure he could. These threats can be painted, but the Finns are certainly not alone there, but there are military departments in several countries, and the airport is currently in the hands of the United States, and they are coordinating that action there. In that way, we must trust that this military security in the region will remain. But it is indeed a matter of some days during which this operation must be successful. About what will happen in Afghanistan in the future, and about these milestones for the future: the future of our development cooperation and the rest of it will be happy to have a more precise debate with Parliament when that time comes, but now perhaps there is not enough time to pay attention to it. It should also be noted that, once we have had a discussion with the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence, this parliamentary order has now been obtained so quickly, this debate will not actually delay this mission. All preparations are under way and the operation will start as soon as the President's decision comes after the parliamentary procedure has been completed and after the Government has discussed the matter. This is where the representative of Estonia — I will take it again — also mentioned other threats in Afghanistan, such as the release of ISIS soldiers and fighters from prison. They are, as it were, enemies of the Taliban, but there is a great deal of potential for such chaotic scenarios in Afghanistan. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u32	Thank you. — Prime Minister's comment, from the place.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u33	Mr President! This question by Mrs Essayah: of course, the President of the European Council will be responsible for when the European Council will meet. Of course, I am prepared to attend that meeting at any time if it is convened. We do not yet know that the European Council has been asked or planned to come together, but if such an invitation comes, we will certainly go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u34	Thank you. — Let's continue with the debate. There are busy speeches here, so let us move on with them. — Chairman, Mr Niikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u35	Mr President! Here I would also like to point out that, as Mr Vanhanen mentioned, this decision was taken unanimously in committee, and we hope that we will make rapid progress here today. I understand that everyone wants to speak here about this, which is an important matter of parliamentary authority, which must be done and implemented. When the report is ready, we will also have the opportunity to have that debate again this evening when you receive our answer. Here you can choose a little, at which point you will have to take the floor so that we can move forward here. But it must also be said that it is time, of course, to discuss later how this happened. However, for 20 years we have spent a great deal of taxpayers' money and resources and lost a few soldiers in that operation, so don't worry, this will be carefully dealt with by the committee and Parliament when the time comes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u36	Thank you. — Mr Mykkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u37	Mr President! There were also speeches here that attempted to label this operation to bring a thousand Afghans to Finland for subsidies, and I believe that the dissemination of this kind represents deliberate mismanagement and disregard for the spirit and health of the Finns and those who helped us. I hope the message from here is mutual and clear. The authorities have estimated that, in order to secure the agreed evacuations and the work of our diplomats, it is necessary to send a protective force to Kabul Airport set up by the Defence Forces. The Coalition Party supports, of course, this — all support for the work of our authorities and soldiers to save the lives of Finns and those who helped us. The good question is whether the group should have left yesterday, and in this context, in view of the future, hopefully we will ensure that Finland is not slow to save the Finns because of its rigidity.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u38	Thank you. — Mr Ronkainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u39	Mr President! I think it is very important for Parliament to deal with this before sending troops to operations of this kind. I understand that, when it comes to Finns, consular assistance and even military protection are justified in order to bring citizens back to their country of origin. Similarly, I understand the assistance to those who have worked for Finland and are in immediate danger. Then, however, they talk about these foreigners who are permanently resident in Finland, i.e. those who have received a residence permit. It seems to me that they have voluntarily gone there to visit their country of origin. What is our duty here to be a donor, and what part of this total? How many Finnish citizens are there, and how many of these permanently resident in Finland? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u40	If I now say — although this is an important point raised by Mr Ronkainen — that there is now a debate about sending soldiers to Kabul Airport, that is all.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is important that the Defence Forces take care of the proper armaments and protective equipment of these soldiers, and, as has been said, this is in an infinite hurry. The Taliban has already begun reprisals, and according to some sources, people are going from door to door throughout the country looking for these people who have helped Western countries, including Finland. In my opinion, it is important that we as far as possible help people like this who have helped us there in Finland. And I would hope that there will also be flexibility here, because the sad fact is that not everyone can be helped and there will also be people who would have needed our help. I hope for swiftness and thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Defence Forces for bringing this before Parliament so quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u42	Thank you. — Representative Mäenpää, Juha, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u43	Mr President! As a former peacekeeper, I have a good understanding of the fact that people directly employed in crisis management forces or delegations, as well as their nuclear families, spouses and children, are being given help and evacuated from the region, but they must not be given any promises of any other family reunification. Such assistance does not apply in this situation to persons who have been granted asylum and who may reside or reside in Afghanistan. It's a delicate situation down there. A big risk is some misunderstanding about a little thing, so the situation may get out of hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u44	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u45	Mr President! As has been pointed out above, the Assembly supports this project, and this is urgent and necessary, there is certainly no doubt about it. Minister Haavisto, when you mentioned that the United States will complete its own operation, do you have any information that the United States will then leave and leave the other partner countries to continue this evacuation alone? This is, of course, quite significant information. This decision-making process, in my opinion, is somewhat strained by the law adopted during the last parliamentary term on the provision and request of international assistance, and at least the speed of the decision-making process in Article 5 of this legislation must then be reconsidered. And I hope, Mr President, that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Council of State will ensure that the self-protection of these Finnish soldiers is adequate and, in the second place, insurance cover, which must also cover the family circle of these women and men.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u46	Thank you. — And Mr Harjanne, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u47	Mr President! I agree with the views expressed here on the need to send this group and on the obvious urgency. The Members of this House, Mrs Kiljunen and Mr Vanhanen made excellent speeches about this, and I would also like to point out that, after that, it is appropriate to consider whether our legislation governing decision-making takes sufficient account of this type of urgent situation and how it might be developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u48	Congressman Kontula, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u49	Mr President! The Left Alliance is also in favour of the measures set out in the report. When soldiers are sent outside the country, it is always a serious matter. That is why it is good that the mission is limited in terms of mission, management, regional and time. We would also like to stress, however, that the choices made in this operation should not be seen as a precedent, but as a response to a particular situation by means of specific measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u50	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u51	Mr President! I know some people who are protecting Finnish embassies in different parts of the world at the moment, and they and their loved ones are looking at the value that Finland is now doing to save those who protected Finnish and Finnish interests in Afghanistan. I think it would really be essential at this point to see how we could help all those who help Finns in that world, and with this deployment of the Protection Department, we will ensure that anyone who feels that he is serving the Finnish flag and carrying it up his sleeve will also receive help in the world. I would therefore ask that this protection department be sent urgently to Afghanistan and that those who have served us be taken away. The second moment will then be about family reunification and the situation in Afghanistan, even then, but I do not believe that this is the moment for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u52	Thank you. — Representative Niemi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u53	Mr President! I would have asked the minister, mainly on the health and safety side: Has it been adequately taken care of now? It is noted that the personal weaponry is in order and the protective equipment is in order. What about food and health care for these protective forces, and are insurance cover and, indeed, remuneration at the right level when embarking on such a dangerous task? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u54	Thank you. — Mr Valtonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u55	Mr President, I had withdrawn my request for the floor so that the matter could be dealt with as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u56	I will give one last speech, and then the Minister will have the answers, and then we will go to the list of speakers. — Mr Hassi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u57	Mr President! The government's policy is well founded, and it is indeed a matter of urgency. There's an emergency in Afghanistan. Now I think it is important that we hand over our helping hand not only to Finns but also to those who have helped us, and it seems really artificial if the criterion is whether you have been on the Finnish payroll or on the payroll of some subcontractor. In particular, when it comes to people who have secured the safety of Finnish operators, embassy officials and others, I would like to see the purpose of the articles considered and not necessarily looking for these limits in the letters of the articles, but helping those who have helped us.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u58	Minister Haavisto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Maybe first I'll light up a little more of this list of people to help. In other words, those who have been in the Finnish delegation on payroll or in the EU or in crisis management operations to help us, together with their families, belong to this 170. In addition, as I mentioned, there are around 60 Finnish citizens or holders of a permanent residence permit in the country. So this group is currently about 230. Now the group mentioned here, for example in relation to subcontracting, is an additional group of some 300 who would come from it. In addition to that, we have people working in Finland's development cooperation projects, we have women journalists who have been trained by Finland, and we have human rights defenders who we have supported over the years. This crowd will surely be there at least a thousand closer than 500. Looking now at this logistical challenge, which already exists in this first operation, which we now have there, perhaps you will understand that we cannot immediately double it, but of course Parliament and Parliament's positions in this regard too are heard here. Mr Kontula has just spoken of these precise limits of the operation. This is indeed the case with only this Kabul airport and its immediate surroundings. So we are not going to the city, Kabul, under any circumstances, but we are trying to secure the evacuations of Finns and the activities of Finnish diplomats at and around the airport. The maximum time is one month. Now to this question, which was also on behalf of Mr Heinos, how the Americans will work. Of course we're having a conversation with them all the time. We have the impression that they have asked other countries to provide their own evacuations on 27.8. By the end of the month, and after this 27th day, they will complete their evacuation from the field to the end of the month, and then at the end of August they will have left. This is the time window where we operate. The actual task description is very accurate with this crowd. It is a protective force and they have no other military action but their own protection and, of course, the possible protection of these Finnish diplomats in this situation. Their weapons are reserved in case. When, among other things, Mr Niemi asked whether food, health and other matters were in order, yes, there was a great deal of self-sufficiency and, of course, Nordic cooperation among others. Norwegians have a field hospital and we have had a very good working relationship with Norwegians so far. I think the insurance issues and the others are fine. This group, and I would like to emphasise it, are those who have voluntarily taken up this task, who are members of the Defence Forces' staff. So, of course, we do not use garrisons in such a demanding situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u60	Thank you. — And now let's go to the list of speakers. I would ask you again to take into account Mr Niko's intervention in relation to this timetable that every hour is important in this matter, and I therefore hope that the speakers will be crystallized on this issue. — Mr Kiuru, Pauli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u61	Mr President! Finland is about to send its armed soldiers into a blizzard surrounded by hostile and difficult-to-predict forces. The Taliban discipline in a confused situation is a mystery. Their promises must be taken with great caution. The protection operation is not risk-free from a security point of view. Professional soldiers with the best training and experience and the necessary personal equipment and protective equipment will be sent to the site. The mission is in the national leadership of Finland, and we do not work under the authority of the EU, NATO or the UN. There is an air bridge, and other Western countries are also there to evacuate. The foreign policy risk to Finland from the operation itself is likely to be small. The situation is serious and exceptional. Finland must act decisively and quickly for the security of its own citizens. Once the situation is resolved, we need to consider whether our response rate can be further improved in the future. I do not doubt the readiness of the soldiers, but the various stages of political decision-making consume precious time. Time can be a critical variable for human lives. Mr President! Finland must also help those Afghans who have cooperated directly with us. If possible, we must also help those who have helped us through our contractual partners. It is also affected by what has been agreed in advance between the various parties involved. Women are the most persecuted group in Afghanistan. In the greatest distress, it is not usually those who shout loudly and who are able to wedge themselves to the top. Aid must be sought in the refugee issue, mainly directly to the destination or neighbouring region. Refugees from Afghanistan must be taken first and foremost through our quota refugee system and within the limits it defines. The EU needs to coordinate in a centralised manner the possible greater pressure on refugees. Western responsibility for Afghanistan and other similar countries cannot be unlimited; Arab countries must also raise their profile. In the future, we need to think carefully about how democracy, the rule of law and human rights are being exported to corrupt countries. Countries whose own leadership is not committed to helping their own people find it difficult to help. The collapse of the Afghan regime reflects the decomposing impact of corruption. Mr President! The operation will be supported by — and the Assembly will be supported. We defend our national interests in their deepest sense as we safeguard the safety and spirit of Finns. I'm counting on our Defence Forces to perform a task that requires expertise. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u62	Thank you. — And Mr Turtiainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u63	Mr President! The fact that we are in the middle of a summer break and on a very fast schedule here now talking about issues related to the crisis in Afghanistan also tells us that in Finland Parliament is able to work on a very fast schedule, and that is of course a good thing. I hope, however, that the public will now see how dangerous a government we have. We are faced with international threats once again, and possibly we are faced with the same thing that happened as early as 2015. All of that is now being received by a government of small parties, and two of the three parties that have received the largest mandate are following the situation from the opposition. Power belongs to the people, and the best way to do so is to distribute the seats of government among each parliamentary party according to the mandate. I hope that these scenarios arising from the situation in Afghanistan will inspire citizens to support the ideas that the VKK will put forward for the development of democracy. Mr President! When the war is withdrawn, of course, the civilians are first brought to safety, then the equipment is brought and the army is finally brought. Now the Americans are doing the opposite. This doesn't make any sense, and that's why this whole Afghanistan thing stinks and it stinks. Is it intended to divert attention from the corona crisis or from possible money laundering in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u68	Thank you. — Representative Essayah, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u69	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The Christian Democrats do not have a representative in that Committee on Foreign Affairs, so in that sense I am now defending this place of speech in this sitting. In any case, we do not want to prolong this. The Christian Democrats support this operation and, as I said in the debate, it is important that this evacuation operation is carried out as soon as possible, because the situation may change very suddenly. Many international assessments have pointed out that the rapid collapse of the Afghan regime has come as a surprise, and in that sense, of course, the question arises that intelligence has been available, but whether it is wanted to be believed and understood, and yet it has been known that troops are being withdrawn from Afghanistan. Is it the case that there have been no so-called plan B or different scenarios in the international community as to how that situation might develop? Mr President! This situation has at least highlighted shortcomings in international cooperation, and there must also be ex post evaluations of how development cooperation will be carried out in future in countries where there is no established civil society and how it will be instilled, in which case a situation similar to that in Afghanistan would not happen again. The international community must hold a critical debate after these urgent measures have been taken. In my debate, I have already called for the EU to be very quiet in this situation. For its part, Finland could be putting pressure on the European Council to be convened as a matter of urgency so that the events of the 2015 refugee crisis do not recur. The informal meeting of foreign ministers did well to highlight the migration disaster and also the increasing use of refugees worldwide as an instrument to influence hybrids. This would require an international agreement. It would be absolutely essential that this issue be placed at the heart of the list of challenges to be resolved as a matter of urgency. Finland should also assess its own development cooperation. Over the years, Finland has been working specifically to improve the rights of women and girls, and certainly every euro that has been used for that purpose has been necessary and improving the life situation of these people, even though at the moment it seems that the long-term impact has been wasted at least temporarily. This should also assess the way in which the EU will prepare for this type of situation in the future, when, for example, the EU rapid reaction force has not been able to be deployed. In the background, there are indications that the situation is unclear and it is not known who, or what kind of situation, would be operating at that Kabul airport, but are not these rapid reaction forces precisely for situations where the situation is as unclear and unpredictable as possible? In that sense, I hope that this debate too, in what kind of situations and how these rapid reaction forces can be used in the future, or whether they are necessary in this form, will be followed by this acute situation at EU level. Mr President! In this debate, there has also been a point of development in our own legislation, that is to say, this article on international military aid is being applied for the first time, but is it, in its urgency, in order to ensure that the people we need and want to help get that help as quickly as possible and not depend on our decision-making system? But these are all the questions to which we must return in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u70	Thank you. — Mr Könttä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u71	Mr President! The situation in Afghanistan is changing for a moment. The results of years of work have faded almost in the blink of an eye. The role of women and girls, education and media freedom are all falling apart. Terrorism has a growing opportunity to rely on the Taliban regime. The fragile security situation is now weaker. However, the time has come for thorough ex post enquiries. We must now act by the means required by the acute situation. Afghanistan, taken over by Taliban, is in the midst of a human crisis in which hopelessness and fear of death are growing. No one is sure how long the United States will secure and control Kabul Airport — it is estimated that it will be days. From Kabul as well as from other parts of Afghanistan, it is very difficult to get close to the airport and inside the airport. According to reports from Afghanistan, the Taliban have begun reprisals and have started to search for people from the West from door to door throughout the country. The sad fact is, too, that not all those in need are likely to be evacuated. Therefore, action must be taken immediately. Finland and Finland must take responsibility — not leave the guy behind, not during the mission or after it ends. The evacuation of Finns and those who helped us must be carried out as quickly and safely as possible. Even in the case of evacuation, there is no serving at tables: We ourselves must take care of our citizens and help us to protect ourselves from Kabul. No one else will do it for us, and for that purpose this protective force will be sent. If and when there are more Finns and those who have helped us than we know now, we have to help them. The task picture must be clear: we help our own people and those who helped us get to safety. Mr President! Finnish soldiers put themselves in danger because the situation is not harmless. It is possible that military force will also have to be used. According to the report, sending soldiers through training and crisis management experience have the best national performance that is now needed. The Defence Forces shall ensure adequate armaments and protective equipment and shall ensure as safe a return as possible. The Government's report on the deployment of the Defence Forces in Kabul Airport is of foreign and security importance. The decision is justified and necessary. Finally, of course, I wish our soldiers and Finns all over Afghanistan a blessing — bring everyone home in one piece.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u72	Thank you. — Mr Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u73	Mr President! The black sun is over Afghanistan, but it is also over all of us who have close or family or citizens there in the midst of a crisis. Finnish soldiers are going to Kabul, Afghanistan, and it is possible that military forces will also have to be used there. They're taking weapons and other protective equipment with them. This report states that there is currently no functioning government in Afghanistan that can obtain permission to use troops in the country. It is also mentioned that the export of arms and ammunition to the potential area of deployment of the mission should be subject to appropriate authorisation from the administration of the country concerned. In what way, Minister, do you see that this is possible now that we are living in a very critical situation? As an alternate member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have great concerns about insurance cover, and I would like to ask: is it true that the law on military crisis management will certainly cover the safety and post-security of these Finnish soldiers, then, if anything happens there? Finland will provide EUR 3 million for humanitarian aid to Afghanistan, which is a good thing. It is to be welcomed that aid should be taken to where it is needed and that humanitarian aid should also be provided there close to people. I also hope that the follow-up to this money will be accurate, that certainly that money will go to the right place for those people who really need it very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u74	Thank you. — Representative Ovaska, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u75	Mr President! It is necessary that this should also be brought here for processing. We have discussed this a great deal in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, of course, because it is a matter of military use and such an exceptional operation, then it is entirely appropriate that every Member of Parliament should also be able to participate in that debate and also ensure that there is strong parliamentary support for this operation. We know that these people who are being sent there may be in danger there. Although the situation inside the airport may be quite calm at the moment, Finland must also play its part. It must be remembered that this is a protection operation, but it is also a difficult time to consider that we are not talking about military action, but that the situation is getting worse every day. Several countries have already sent their national troops to secure and secure the evacuation of their citizens and others, so at the latest now is the time when we need to act. Very good speeches have also been made here on what, on the one hand, could have been done differently or what the EU could do. And I hope that this Parliament will also have a debate in the autumn and will reflect more extensively on what will happen in Afghanistan in the coming years. Looks like that country might even end up back in the Dark Ages.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u76	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u77	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! As has been well mentioned in this debate, this urgent operation is supported quite widely in this Chamber, and the coalition supports it and is widely considered necessary. We are sending a protective team to protect Finnish workers at Kabul Airport and also to help the people being evacuated. There are already similar troops out there, at least from Norway, Denmark and Germany. As Minister Haavisto has pointed out in this debate, the United States is carrying out its own operation on a very fast schedule, and the window of time will certainly be around a week in this survey that we have time to act there. This decision is historic and significant. It is neither small nor small, but, Mr President, this is not all small and insignificant either as a political decision or as a decision-making process. The Director of the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy, researcher Charly Salonius-Pasternak, said today in Helsingin Sanomat that Finland's intentions to send soldiers to Kabul are important from a strategic culture point of view. He stated: ‘In Finland, it has been the custom to send soldiers to a specific mission, such as the EU,the Natoai UN. But this is not about any such operation, it is about the Finnish operation. Finland will go there its own, even though it has certainly made arrangements.” In that sense, this is not a very small matter, and it is good that there is also a debate on this. So the soldiers designed to be used for the mission are hired personnel of the Defence Forces. There are no garrisons on this mission to be sent. I myself have pointed out that I would have liked this House to have been dealt with by the Committee on Defence when it was decided today. But when this is not done, I hope that this issue of self-protection will be carefully addressed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is important to invest in the safety, self-protection and operational capacity of personnel. The task is demanding, and the risks are high when the situation in Kabul has been followed. The question is whether Finnish soldiers will have to resort to weapons, shoot, and, on the other hand, what may happen to them there. I myself would like to add further detail to the insurance cover: Is it true, as has been pointed out in this debate, that these men and women are there in the context of crisis management insurance cover or in the area of insurance cover belonging to the main staff? There could be a big and significant difference. On the other hand, it must be ensured that, in the case of normal insurance cover for the dependants, this is sufficient and also covers their immediate family in the worst case. Mr President! As I said in the debate, according to my own assessment, as also pointed out by the Director of the Institute for Foreign Policy, this in some way stretches the interpretation of the decision on the provision and request of international assistance, which came into force in 2017. I would have asked Minister Haavisto again: was it quite unambiguous to find this legislation, or is it the case that we genuinely lack the kind of legislation that should be used in this type of situation? I slightly disagree that, in such a situation, it should not be necessary for Parliament to deal with it, but it should be possible to take a decision more quickly. That is why I hope that, once this situation has been resolved, Article 5 of the legislation on the provision and request of this international assistance will apply. It will be re-assessed and decisions will be taken more quickly. Mr President! I also welcome the fact that Minister of Defence Kaikkonen has told us that the Ministry of Defence will also investigate the lessons of the Afghan mission to Finland on a wider scale. Full support for this operation, and it is hoped that everything will be saved from there within this tight window of time to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u78	Thank you. — My representative, Mr. Kulmun, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u79	Mr President! I appreciate the fact that Parliament seems reasonably unanimous on this issue. Although it has come to us quite unexpectedly, on a fast schedule, it seems that the Committee on Foreign Affairs will soon be able to submit a report on this matter. As the previous speaker has pointed out, it is my view that precisely because we have never had a similar situation and there is no clear answer to our legislation, it is appropriate to treat this as a report through Parliament. And it is true that, when the picture of the situation has changed very soon — even three days ago the Committee on Foreign Affairs had not been informed about it, the situation has developed into this during the last two days — it is, of course, necessary for us to be able to do so in that week's window, which the Americans have announced, Persons permanently staying in Finland and helping the State of Finland to get out safely. There are significant risks involved in the operation. The use of military force, the deployment of Finnish soldiers in general without a crisis management operation, is quite exceptional and unique, so it is also worth looking at this carefully. And this is hardly going to be a tradition, but it is going to be in connection with this sad situation in Afghanistan, where two decades of events will certainly be going through very carefully in every country in the Western world. Mr President! However, it is undoubtedly necessary for an urgent solution to the situation that we should get this matter before the Committee on Foreign Affairs as soon as possible, and then finally before the end of the day, so that I thank Parliament for my part that this debate seems quite unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u80	Thank you. — Representative Savola, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u81	Mr President! The speed is now what is required here, and the most important thing is to get our troops out of that area quickly and get the Finns out of that area, and also, just as has been pointed out in the past, these people who have worked for Finland out of there because they are also facing an acute danger. We have the best experts leaving for that area, and they're going there voluntarily. They have the best equipment available. The issues of self-protection and security are absolutely central. We have had good reports on this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The situation is acute, it is unsettled, but above all it is unpredictable in that area, and that is why everything must now be done so that those who need help can be evacuated quickly. The window is small. It's only about a week. From the point of view of the future, these legislative needs and certainly this aftermath for the whole operation in Afghanistan should be reviewed. It will certainly take place more widely than in Finland alone, because that operation there seemed to have failed badly. The Central Parliamentary Group supports this report and the implementation of this security operation and the deployment of a security department in Afghanistan. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u82	Thank you. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u83	Mr President! When there's an emergency, there's an emergency. We have an emergency from Finns, but we also have an emergency from Finnish soldiers. In the middle of the crisis, we must also remember those risks, and we must also dare and speak about them, especially in Parliament. Risks are also involved in this issue and a great deal. Is it the case that the Finnish State — supported by Finnish armed Finnish soldiers — is it the case that persons who have applied for asylum and who have received a residence permit have voluntarily gone back to a country where they have been persecuted and their lives have been in danger? There are also many other issues worth discussing more. If you think about this evacuation issue, if not all the planned evacuations are reached or not reached at the airport, will the evacuation then be extended to persons we do not know exactly and whose background we do not know if there are available seats on the plane? But there are always risks. How do we ensure that, in such a situation, no terrorists or Taliban members are involved in the flight to Finland? I do hope for a broad debate on these issues, because we have also put money into Afghanistan. It has been sad to hear that the country is very corrupt, and of course Finns have concerns about what the money has been spent on and how we can prevent it in the future. The place for that debate is absolutely vital and must be held in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u84	Thank you. — Mr Kontula, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u85	Mr President! Almost the whole world shares the concern about the Taliban's return to power in Afghanistan. For many, this concern is also a strangling fear for close security and even for the spirit. Finnish citizens, people living in Finland and their family members are currently in danger in Afghanistan. There are also many people at risk who have helped and supported Finland or worked for Finland either directly or through subcontracting contracts. Finland has been part of the conflict in Afghanistan for the fifth century. Has been involved in military operations and has been trained. In recent years, Afghanistan has been Finland’s largest development partner. All of this would not have been possible without local connections. We do not know how the Taliban will work. It has promised to refrain from the persecutions of those who supported a different regime, but experience with the previous Taliban regime makes provision for other developments. Mr President! It is important that Finland does its utmost to protect Afghan civilians. We have a particular responsibility not only to our own people but also to those whose safety has been compromised by Finland's cooperation. It's not an easy situation. In Kabul, the Taliban controls city checkpoints and all routes to the airport. Information from other countries is obtained in varying degrees. If evacuation is to be possible at all, it is up to the international community to do everything in its power to keep the borders and the airport open. Although the Taliban are not currently completely blocking people's access to the field, the situation can change rapidly. There is also uncertainty as to how long the US mission to secure Kabul Airport will continue. We're in a hurry to get these people safe. Mr President! The Left Alliance supports the measures set out in the report. The sent officials, the evacuation mission and, of course, the evacuation operation themselves need a protective force. According to the report: ‘The team would operate in the area of the Kabul airport and The estimated duration of the operation shall not exceed approximately one month. The troops would be in the national leadership of Finland throughout the operation.’ When soldiers are sent outside the country, it is always a serious matter. That is why the Left Alliance feels it is good that the mission is limited in terms of mission and leadership, both regionally and in terms of time. We would also like to stress, however, that the choices made today should not be seen as a precedent but as a response to a particular situation by means of specific measures. Mr President! It has been confusing to see how a country can collapse in an instant after 20 years of consolidation and thousands of billions of euros. We're gonna have to go through this all the time. It is essential that Parliament also plays its part in combing the whole operation in Afghanistan, the causes of its failure and what may have been lasting. Of course, right now, the most important thing is to get people safe. When the acute concern about on-going evacuations is over, Finland can also focus on more long-term measures. The work that Finland has done in favour of good governance, human rights and education must not be completely wasted. It should be stressed that the Taliban are also bound by international agreements. Mr President! Finally, I would like to draw attention to one aspect of the debate here today. A number of speakers have stressed that every minute now counts and that Parliament should therefore try to get as much time as possible. This is part of a culture that has spread more widely to this house, in which it is always a parliament that seems to run out of time. Here too, however, we have been struggling in one direction and another and we have been thinking about solutions for several days. It cannot always be a matter of a few hours for Parliament whether it is enough time or not. We are in this country chosen this kind of state form. If you do not want to live in this House, you want someone faster and more robust and a system that takes things more briefly and firmly forward, then you need to change the form of state.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u89	Thank you.— Congressman Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u90	Mr President! As has been said, there is now a pressing need for decision-making, and the success of the evacuation calls for the support of the Defence Forces. The decision-making procedure and its publicity and slowness should not jeopardise the security of any person participating in or applying for an evacuation operation. I hope, therefore, that, once the acute situation has passed, we will look at how legislation enabling evacuation should be developed, whether it is a crisis management law or a foreign law. Denmark and Norway, for example, have been able to deploy protective forces. Of course, Parliament's assessment and reporting process will continue to be necessary, but it is a question of how the urgency procedure works. Good comments have also been made on this point in the committee's debate on the need for cooperation agreements on evacuation with other Nordic countries. Now this cooperation has worked well. I would just like to raise a few points about the future: I hope that the list of evacuations in Finland can be updated as soon as possible — in the context of the success of the current operation — by adding both human rights and women's rights defenders, those involved in Finland's development cooperation projects and, for example, those involved in the police mission and, as many have already done here, those who have secured Finnish security — including those employed by subcontractors — and those seeking protection through family reunification. Hopefully, we will no longer need a protective force that has been opened up to civil traffic in the future; access to security would best be promoted through humanitarian visas. Visiting Delhi in this situation is not a real option. Finally, I would also like to thank Minister Skinner for the willingness of Finland to invest in humanitarian aid and to help its neighbours and neighbours there.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u91	Thank you. — Representative Halla-aho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u92	Mr President! It is acceptable that a civilised state should also seek to help its citizens in need abroad. However, it would be a good thing if some consistency were observed here, taking into account also the fact that the citizen has contributed to the problem through his own actions. It is also acceptable in principle that a civilised state should seek to help citizens of other countries who are in trouble because they have acted for Finland, although I am concerned that working for Finland will be defined very generously and loosely. The Greens have heard some somewhat worrying speeches in this direction. Embassy workers are their own figures, but we are also talking about the evacuation of dozens of Finnish citizens in Afghanistan or persons residing permanently in Finland. Who are these people? Are they Afghans who have previously fled their own country and received international protection from Finland on the very basis that Afghanistan is an unacceptable place for them? If so, what are they doing in Afghanistan? Today's Helsingin Sanomat interviewed a man in Kabul who has arrived in Finland six years ago and therefore lives here. He's obviously been on the 2015 wave. Now he's on vacation in Kabul.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u95	Thank you. — Mr Tolvanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u96	Mr President! The sending of a defence capability unit to Afghanistan is entirely justified, not two words about it. Later, we need to find out why international intelligence has failed so badly that these evacuations could not be carried out earlier, but that will have to be settled later. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the best-trained men with the best equipment, protective equipment and weapons would be sent there. My concern has to do with their power rights. What are they? After all, we are faced with a very ruthless, at worst barbaric group, which is extremely poorly managed, perhaps without leadership at all. After all, the situation may very quickly become very difficult, and then the rules on the use of force must be clear, but they must also be sufficient. I myself have had to be here in Finland in situations where a firearm has been used by the opposing party and, unfortunately, in situations where an authority has had to use a firearm. Forgive me for my choice of words, Mr President, but when the game gets twisted in that situation, then you can no longer ask for advice and help from thousands of kilometres away, but these rules on the use of force must be clear enough, but wide enough, so that this group can protect these protected people, but above all themselves. The second thing that worries me is this insurance cover. We've already talked about this. It is in history that the authorities who worked abroad and those who worked in Finland have suffered severe injuries as a result of such situations as a result of violence, and their insurance cover has been completely inadequate. And now I hope that the Minister and the Committee on Foreign Affairs will deal with this issue this time, because this operation is not risk-free.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u97	Minister Haavisto for this insurance cover, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u98	Thank you, Mr President. I have checked this situation on the Ministry of Defence’s side when it was asked which law is applicable here, and I am now aware that the forthcoming decision of the Minister, i.e. the Minister for Defence, contains the following provision on insurance cover: ‘The law on compensation for accidents and services in crisis management is applicable to staff engaged in international assistance and other international activities. In addition to the actual activities, the insurance cover covers both the possible training and the exercises to be carried out in response to the requested assistance. A monthly allowance shall be paid for the period of illness abroad until the person has returned to his or her country of origin.’ The argument comes from the law of the Defence Forces. And then on Mr Tolvanen's question about the right to use force. This is an opportunity for self-defence and self-preservation. This is, of course, also a matter that has been examined by the Defence Administration. Perhaps last but not least: Mr Reijonen raised this from a new point of view, whether this group could come to Finland with people whose security information we do not have or who would even be Taliban or Isis's activists. This concern about this kind of chaotic situation also lies, of course, with the international community, and this is based on the fact that of the persons we have listed, we know their background, we know their security information and thus away. We are working actively with the relevant authorities here all the time. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u99	Thank you. — Mr Vikman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u100	Mr President! I strongly believe that operations are justified in which the Defence Forces secure the evacuation of Finns and those who helped Finland from Afghanistan. The mission is necessary to ensure that people are as securely discharged as possible in an urgent and extremely exceptional situation. The situation in Afghanistan is looking gloomy, and this will have very broad and far-reaching effects, which we need to discuss in another context, so that this urgent decision on the deployment of the Defence Forces in Parliament can now be taken forward quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u101	Thank you. — Mr Sirén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u102	Mr President! I do not want to delay the urgent decision-making process at all, but I feel it is necessary to raise a few points specifically in relation to this decision-making operation. According to the STT, Minister Haavisto said yesterday that ‘I consider it realistic that all persons wanted to be removed during the month of August’. Does the ‘all-wanted persons’ refer to170 persons who are members of the Decided to evacuate? We have a moral obligation to help people who have helped us, worked for Finland and are therefore currently in danger in Afghanistan. In what way is it justified that this demarcation of persons to be evacuated is now being carried out on the basis of the type of contract of employment and evacuation of persons who have worked to safeguard Finns, to ensure the safety of Finns, and Afghan women are also involved? Secondly, with regard to the demarcation of the operation: is it, therefore, that the force now being deployed by this demarcation will not be able to operate outside the airport to assist the evacuation personnel to get to the airport? It is precisely this access to the field that I understand now is the dangerous and most difficult part of this evacuation operation. These are the demarcation issues to which we would like an answer and perhaps also the arguments in the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u103	Thank you. — Congressman Holopainen, Mari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u104	Mr President! The operation is justified in this situation, and I would like to see, as the previous speaker said, that we could extend this group to people who have assisted the Finnish media, for example. Of course, the situation is very challenging. It is difficult to get people to the airport, but it is not known that the situation will also improve in the future. There has also been information that it is particularly difficult for women and girls to leave the country, and I would like particular attention to be paid to this. Finland should therefore open up more places for people in distress to receive more refugees. Finland should also open study places for Afghan girls and women, so that we can create hope and secure study opportunities that are very difficult. People are also in danger of life at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u105	Thank you. — Mr Kinnunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u106	Mr President! Afghanistan has been thrown into chaos since the faster-than-expected rise of power in the Taliban. There is no functioning government. The Taliban's grip is tightening. The situation is harsh, acute and unpredictable, a human emergency of great importance. Risks are increasing, as retaliation has already begun. The Western countries, including Finland, have a duty and responsibility to help. Sending a protective force is a matter of protecting and protecting the lives of both Finnish citizens and persons who helped Finland. It's necessary. The operation is justified. The aid must now be directed to where the emergency is greatest. At the same time, we must also recognise the fact that not everyone can be helped. We are obliged to act on both neighbor love and international cooperation. Evacuating is urgent. We need to get the troops out of here as soon as possible. What is important is that experienced and well-informed staff with sufficient powers are sent there. Military equipment and protective equipment must be of the highest quality. Their leadership and spiritual support must also be effective and adequate. It is a good thing that, in accordance with the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we are ensuring parliamentary decision-making even in quick situations. Such a decision must have strong support. The wider debate should be continued in the autumn. It is now up to Parliament, called by the President, to take a decision as quickly as possible, because time runs. Following the evacuation, the international community's attention must be focused on the development of Afghanistan and regional stability. In the midst of different cultures, traditions, tribes, religions and extremist movements, it is challenging to act. It has been demonstrated by this long process of global aid to Afghanistan. Conflicts are growing out of inequality. However, I believe that there are permanent traces of Finnish development cooperation, educational support and peace-keeping in the midst of the people. The work has not been completely wasted. Peace work is wide-ranging and long-term. It should be continued as far as possible. It starts with our respect for our neighbors. Mr President! There are great risks involved in sending soldiers. The soldiers will go there voluntarily. I wish the sent soldiers a journey for the highest protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u107	Thank you. — Mr Mustajärvi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u108	Mr President! We need to learn from Afghanistan. When Finland entered Afghanistan 20 years ago as a party to the war, there was reason to suspect that the faster the departure, the slower the return. Today you can say that the slower the return, the faster the departure. In Afghanistan, no substantial lasting results were achieved. The United Kingdom, the Soviet Union and the United States have tried each in turn and each with equally poor success. Democracy is a difficult export product by the armed forces and under duress, its history teaches. However, sending Finnish armed soldiers to Kabul must not set a precedent for further expansion of the legislation on the provision and request of international assistance. The committee's report does not now have to comment on the content of legislation or on relations between the institutions — the time has come for its assessment — but now we have to take a position on the matter. In future, Parliament should be given a thorough explanation of why Afghanistan failed in so many ways.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u109	Thank you. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u110	Mr President! Indeed, it goes without saying that we must help the Finns in the region and, of course, those who have helped us there and are really such allies. Mr Mykkänen here has just criticised the suspicions of another representative as to whether there will be extra people. Mr Mykkänen's criticism was well-founded, but on the other hand the question arises as to why there are such speeches, and that is because they are too easy to stretch and bang. It goes without saying that the Finns, who have been involved in this operation, and indeed the people who have helped, must be brought from there, but when it is stretched to the fact that laundry has been washed against payment or scrubbed floors, it is still a little different from the fact that we have actually been there as allies. However, it must be remembered that there are also these Finns, which is what we are talking about, perhaps 60. On 6.8. it has already been announced that all Finns should go home, and if there are still people there on holiday at the moment, then I do not think we have a great deal of moral responsibility to help them at that point. And there's been a lot of wondering, which is why decades and hundreds of billions of dollars have been wasted on this aiding operation, and a representative. The Black Lake has just been extremely good at telling us how Britain and the Soviet Union have been trying to deal with this issue and now the coalition led by the United States. We should really learn from this. There is no point in trying to impose democracy on a particular part of the world, whether it be flowers or pretty speeches or weapons. It simply will not succeed. We can't really change the world the way we want it to be, because different people actually live in different parts of the world. Although many of the speeches here feel that we are all the same, unfortunately we are not right to be. Let us hope that lessons will be learned from this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u111	Thank you. — Congressman Kauma, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u112	Mr President! Sending Finnish soldiers to Kabul Airport to secure an evacuation mission is a good decision and I support it. It has been pointed out in many speeches that this is an urgent matter and should be dealt with quickly. The question I am asking is that we in Parliament were informed yesterday afternoon about this sitting, so that there is some obstacle which would have prevented us from holding this report debate, for example, yesterday evening or even at night? After all, Parliament should act very quickly in such a situation, for hours when it comes to it. Mr President! Although I am in favour of this operation, there are, of course, a few questions that I myself, at least, raise about its content. Where, for example, is the EU rapid reaction force in this situation and cooperation between EU countries in general? You would think that, precisely for such a situation, these rapid reaction forces were originally defined. Mr President! Another question — and indeed Mrs Holopainen raised this point — is that, when we talk about bringing 170 people home, can this evacuation operation be extended to other people with this mandate. At least I think that this mandate is very specific and only applies to these people, and if it is extended, it must be brought before Parliament, but what is the proper state of affairs?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u113	Thank you. — Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u114	Mr President! This evacuation operation and the accompanying protective force are therefore necessary and necessary. This matter urgently needs to be implemented, and that is what we are doing here. However, at least two large clays for us in Parliament remained for further work: 1) Indeed, we have to make a precise assessment of why the Finnish population was in general in Afghanistan and what this international operation genuinely meant and meant in the context we are talking about. 2) We clearly need legislative clarifications regarding this law on the provision and reception of international assistance, and we also need to review the legislation on crisis management forces so that situations such as these, where we are right now, can be dealt with smoothly.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u115	Congressman Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u116	Thank you, Mr President. As a Member of Parliament, I would like to thank you for allowing me to express my thoughts, because as regards the legal basis, this Government report also states that ‘the decision to include ‘democracyal powers’ applies to a particularlyrequiremental situation ‘such as this —’before the Council of State makes a decision,it is fortunate that a report is made to it’. That's why it's valuable that we're talking here,and I'm not asking you to do this in The Finns of Peru have an understanding of the fact that, as has been pointed out in the speeches, we are seeking Finnish and Finnish helpers for safety, but when we start thinking about this deployment of troops, as stated here in the report, we need to assess the situation comprehensively and take into account the objectives, tasks and the way in which the operations are carried out. Of course, the debate also included who we are looking for and what kind of situation there is, and for this reason perhaps I am somewhat surprised that Mr Haavisto, for example, has not been able to fully answer the questions of the representatives of the People's Republic of Finland, in other words whether there are people there who have some kind of temporary or more permanent residence permit, on holiday trips of some kind, taking into account, for example, Mr Sheikki Laakso and Mr Halla-aho's speeches on the State Department's press release of 6 August, which stated, although it is a recommendation, that 'it is immediately requested to leave Afghanistan'. This fact sheet still What does it do in concrete terms for people who could have left? Certainly there are people there who, for example, need to be present at the consulate for their duties. But what does that mean? Does that mean maybe expense liability or something like this? I would definitely like an answer to that. I would also like to ask whether the protection police was consulted to assess whether there is a threat of terrorism in this country. You have said, Minister Haavisto, that there is now a situation where the window of time is open and people can be picked up. However, this is a foreign country's territory, where we are going, where military forces are being sent, albeit not to war, but to secure evacuation. Is this possible? But I'm sure they're not happy about it now. I'm sure they'd be happy to catch these people, the Western people who hate themselves, and treat them the way they want to. Is there any indication of this? And I would also like to say that when the President hoped that there would not be too much talk about these issues relating to the quota of refugees. However, I would like to remind you that, for example, Minister Henriksson and Minister Ohio themselves have raised the issue that, given the situation in Afghanistan, we should increase the quota of refugees, and in that sense the citizens have also spoken. I hope, Minister, from you — that is, Minister Haavisto — now answers: Firstly, is this some way of importing asylum seekers, is this the system? Are there vacationers? What is their responsibility for not following the Ministry’s recommendations, or is it just that they are now being sought? And really, is there any indication from the protection police that the threat of terrorism is rising in Finland? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u117	I note from the President's request today that we discuss this deployment of troops in Kabul, that this is the subject of the debate. Otherwise, you can talk about anything, but this is a debate in this sitting. — Mr Östman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u118	Thank you, Mr President. On the basis of the rapid debate in this Chamber, it can be concluded that there is a broad consensus — and that is a good thing — on this matter of sending a military force to Afghanistan to coordinate and assist in the evacuation work. But whenever such acute and new situations arise, it is easy for us to begin to speculate and speculate about what we should have done or what if this decision leads to a bad end. However, I would like to stress the fact that there are only poor or even worse alternatives at our disposal. The Foreign Minister and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have done their best in a challenging situation. Thank you for that. I am also pleased that there is such a broad consensus here in Parliament. At the same time, it means that we together bear responsibility for the decision that has been taken. Quoting Mr Haavisto, Minister of Foreign Affairs: There's no time to lose. We're in a hurry. I also think it is necessary for us to have a wider debate later in the autumn on the Finnish refugee quota, for example, but that debate and that decision are separate from this debate and will be dealt with as a matter of their own.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u119	Thank you. - Minister Haavisto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u120	Thank you. — And thank you, Parliament, for the debate. I myself do not want to prolong this at all, but I will answer a few questions which have yet to be asked by the representatives here so that the picture of the situation is the same for all. Mr Sirén also raised the question of how these 170 people were defined. It really includes people who have been directly employed to Finland and their families, as well as people who have been involved in crisis management operations and EU operations. Finland was the first to announce that we will also take our own figures from those involved in these crisis management operations and the EU mission, because they do not have a natural country to move to. And we have also appealed to other countries to assume this responsibility. This has been a joint exercise between the EU and a crisis management operation in Afghanistan. Can this be expanded? Article 93 of the Aliens Act has been used and is a situation in which a specific humanitarian criterion can be taken into account. It requires a joint presentation by three ministries: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. And in making this list, we have also consulted the protection police, who have been consulted on these people. If Parliament has a target state or a view that the list should be extended in some way, and otherwise, we will of course be happy to hear it in the Council of State. But this is what we are focusing on at the moment, and that too, as I said, is difficult to implement. Mr Sirén then asked if he could leave this area, which has been defined, so that he could still help people towards the airport. That's not possible. There are roadblocks there immediately outside the airport of the Taliban, which is the current group of rulers in the country, and of course they will not pass or pass through the roadblocks. We're at the airport and around where the international community is. I do not want to go deep into this now whether development cooperation has been successful or not, whether money has been wasted or not, but if people's education and health have been invested, I do not think it is wasted money. This was a question or comment from Mr Mustajärvi. To Mr Kauma's question whether this can be extended: Article 93 of the Aliens Act is the instrument that can be used here, if such needs exist, but automatically this does not extend to any of this. It requires a government decision. The question of what things people have been doing in Afghanistan, what they have been doing there, why they have not left: there are probably a lot of different individual situations there, I will not go there. But our principle is that consular assistance is provided in accordance with Finnish law in such a situation. There is also a liability, i.e. travel expenses are charged to the person, of course, if you have to borrow money. It is an enforceable sum which can then be recovered. And then, last but not least, the representative. The sea asked about this situation picture. Move, so to speak, on enemy soil, on dangerous ground — how is this viewed? So far, the international community has been able to act and carry out this evacuation at the airport. This could change. For example, we have the information that the Taliban has given protection to UN workers coming into the field, that the UN has been able to negotiate with them some sort of corridor there. And of course, as I told you at the beginning, the EU Special Representative has also come there to use him in such possible negotiating situations. But our own troops won't leave that airport. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u121	Before I give Mr Niiko the floor, I would like to say that, when this sitting closes, we will have an hour of 20 minutes to prepare the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and then there will be a sitting at the table and after the sitting there will be a 10 minute recess and then there will be a hearing in the feedback debate. — Mr Niikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-08-20-ps-89.u122	Mr President! Having heard this debate, I think it is very necessary that Parliament preceded this debate and not after the troops were sent there. Of course, the law would have made it possible for us — if it had now been interpreted strictly in the Council of State — to have the written procedure made it possible for the Committee on Foreign Affairs alone to be consulted and acted more quickly, but this debate shows that this was a good time to go ahead, even though it now took one day more than that. Let me remind the House that we will have the opportunity in the autumn to discuss this issue in depth, because we will then have a development policy report on the subject. We will start it immediately in September, and Afghanistan will certainly play a very important role in it. Then we will be able to look at all these observations, which have also been heard here today and which will perhaps be heard more in the evening when this report is ready. After this sitting, in 15 minutes, the committee will hold a meeting in the Small Parliament auditorium, so I would ask the members of the committee to move there. - Thank you.
