ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u1	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 33/2021 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 17 December 2021. Let us proceed first to the sectional votes. — I propose that proposals and support be made by a parliamentary group at a time. I also propose that any corrections to the Minutes be made only after the whole section has been voted on.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u2	Finally, the motion of censure will be decided. The following proposals have been put forward in the examination of the budget proposal for a motion of censure to the Government: Vilhelm Junnila ps Jari Koskela, supported by ps: ‘The government’s economic policy isresponsibly increasing government expenditure and responsibilities which do not contribute to the sustainable well-being of Finns. Reforms to strengthen employment and skills in the future have not been completed. No action has been proposed to improve economic growth in the long term. No measures have been taken to improve the purchasing power of people with low and middle incomes. The impact of climate action has increased and will continue to increase the cost of living and driving. Our forestry policy is slipping out of national hands, and the main base of our export industry is under threat. Parliament considers that the government has failed in defending national interests and in financial management and does not enjoy Parliament’s confidence.” Sari Sarkomaa, supported by Sinuhe Wallinheimo kok: ‘The Commission notes that the acceleration of government debt and the failure to take decisions on employment are threatening to undermine the well-being society’s financing base. We are concerned about the promise to stop living at the expense of future generations. A policy based on continuous debt jeopardises Finland’s ability to respond to the threat posed by climate change. The government has not been able to take responsibility and make value choices for a sustainable future. Parliament notes that the policy of endangering welfare services based on the government's continued indebtedness is a failure and the government does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament." Sari Essayah kd Päivi Räsänen kd: ‘The Commission notes that the Government’s social and health and economic and employment policies are not on a sustainable basis. The sustainability of health care should be given priority by dismantling treatment queues and taking care of the health care staff. In view of the financial crisis caused by the interest rate, the government should have updated its programme and cancelled reforms that would increase the long-term government deficit. Increasing permanent expenditure without measures to strengthen employment is jeopardising the sustainability of the welfare state. Government decisions will increase the costs of companies, housing and mobility, and increase social inequalities, in particular by undermining the role of the rural population. As a result, Parliament states that the government has failed and does not enjoy Parliament’s trust.”
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u3	The vote will take place first on Sari Essayah's proposal against Sari Sarkomaa's proposal, followed by Mr Vilhelm Junnila's proposal. Finally, we will vote on whether the Government enjoys the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u4	The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 17 December 2021. We shall proceed to the detailed examination of section 24.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u5	Mr Heinonen's proposal 2 and Mr Savio's proposal 3 relate to the same appropriation. The vote will take place first on Sami Savio's proposal against Mr Heinonen's proposal and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u6	The general debate was closed at the plenary session on Friday 17 December 2021. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of Section 29.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u7	Mr Laukkanen's proposal 16 and Mr Koskela's proposal 46 are of the same content and will therefore be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u8	Timo Heinonen's proposal 20 and Antero Laukkanen's proposal 21 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u9	Let's move on to the processing of income. In accordance with the procedure, the debate shall not be allowed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u10	Presentation of Title 11 on taxes and parafiscal income. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u11	Timo Heinonen's proposal 35 and Päivi Räsänen's proposal 43 have the same meaning, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u12	Presentation of Title 13 on interest income, share sales income and profit gains We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u13	Presentation of Title 15 on loans We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u14	Introduce general arguments. In accordance with the procedure, a general discussion shall not be allowed. A detailed examination of the general arguments will be undertaken.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u15	The 8th issue of the daily order is the election of the Director-General of the National Audit Office. The Executive Director shall be elected for a period of six years from 1 January 2022 The representatives have been allocated an extract from the minutes of the Audit Committee, which includes the names of the persons who have applied for the office of Director-General and the assessment of the applicants by the Audit Committee. The applications for office have been visible at the central office of the Legislative Director's office. The election will take place like the election of the President, in short. The ballot shall contain only the name of the person to be elected, so clearly stated that there shall be no confusion about the person intended. The other kind of ballot will be rejected. The election will be held using one urn. Representatives shall bring their ballots to the urn in the order of roll call and in such a way that the contents of the flag are not visible. In the election ceremony I request the following representatives: Kim Berg, Ritva Elomaa, Jukka Kopra and Mikko Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u16	The result of the vote shall be declared.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u17	When Dr. Sami Yläoutinen has received more than half of the votes cast, he has been elected to the post of Director General of the National Audit Office, which starts on 1 January 2022 and ends on 31 December 2027.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u18	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, Mr Rantanen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u19	Mr President! In the management of the corona crisis, the Finns support decision-making based on expert knowledge. The expert in Finland, who is worth listening to in this regard, is THL. The Director General of THL Markku Tervahauta brought up the placing on the shelf of a corona passport in the first samu on Saturday, and, in fact, during this session HUS has also called for the suspension of the corona pass. It is caused by an omicron virus variant that is also effective in spreading among corona vaccinees. Some non-vaccinated visitors visit events and restaurants with negative test results. Now the fear is that the unvaccinated will be infected by vaccinated carriers. True Finns take seriously the risks associated with the spread of the disease. That is why we believe that the wise words of the experts should be listened to. The Korona Pass should not be used because it creates a false sense of security and can actually lead to the spread of infections if people visit restaurants and events, imagining that they cannot be infected by the Corona Pass. After all, the vaccine has been studied to prevent a serious form of disease and we encourage citizens to take it. The position of Finns is that it is important to increase testing to detect asymptomatic infections in this disease situation and we support the introduction of rapid testing to replace coronapass. Mr President! I propose that the government proposal before us be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u20	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u21	Mr President! The proposals made by representatives THL and HUS experts to suspend the corona passport by Mr Rantanen indicate that the passport does not solve the problems caused by the corona. It leaks, as the True Finns warned earlier in the autumn. It gives citizens the wrong sense of security, and yet the disease is spreading. We, the True Finns, want to prevent the spread of the corona and its disease. We want to minimize the damage to the corona. We encourage citizens voluntarily to vaccinate and propose the widespread use of rapid tests. I support Mr Rantanen's proposal on the wreckage.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u22	Congressman Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Good government, with this proposal you are still pursuing the absurd actions that discipline and discriminate against citizens. There is no rational basis for these actions. For example, according to Statistics Finland, over 52,000 people died from diseases and alcohol poisoning last year and only 558 died from corona, the average age of which was 84 years. Another example: according to the WHO, the omicronvariant is significantly less dangerous than the previous covid-19 infection, or corona. So there is still no basis for such action. And now is really the time to stop playing people with these "hubba bubbarians" of all the world. Mr President! I do not sign the squirming speeches of the Finns of Finland about this government proposal, but because they made a motion of rejection, I do not present a rejection, but I support the motion of rejection of the Finns of Peru. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u24	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u25	Madam President! The use of the Korona Pass is continuing until the end of June, although recently a number of experts, including the Director General of THL Tervahauta and today HUS, have pointed out that the Corona Pass is no longer a solution. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has always stated that restrictions must be necessary and must be lifted as soon as they are no longer. The duration of the presentation has been extended until the THL estimates that the Finns could have been vaccinated with a full vaccination course. THL itself considered it necessary to extend only until the end of April, but the government still decided to extend it further. In addition, another THL opinion estimates that the vaccine coverage will not be much higher in 2022. So has the vaccination coverage been thought to be raised over the next spring by a tighter method, that is, by forced vaccinations of the entire population? That is why we are already aware that the government is now bringing to Parliament a proposal to extend the use of the corona pass. It should be possible to require a Korona passport in any place, regardless of the restrictions in force. So this proposal comes to Parliament in January, as I understand it. How could such a presentation meet the requirements of necessity and proportionality? Even if there is little disease in some areas, the freedom of healthy people could be restricted in case. It is completely arbitrary and unequal if anything. Mr President! Instead, the use of a Koronapass should be abandoned and invested in the use of rapid tests and improving the carrying capacity of health care. Minister Kiuru already spoke in March last year about increasing the number of intensive care facilities to up to a thousand places. Would even some of this have been worthwhile in the past year and a half? At this stage, it is necessary to ask whether our intensive care is really collapsing in 50 or 60 corona patients. For example, how has our health care been doing so far when as many as 500 people per year have died of seasonal flu? Perhaps the carrying capacity was not raised when the government was already promising a rescuer, but it did not become one. Even the current passport does not work as it should. For example, according to the law, people between 16 and 17 years of age should receive a free test certificate for a corona passport. These people need it, for example, to get into a hobby. However, it is not possible to reserve sampling time on the basis of this right at HUS Koronabot. Nor has this right been communicated in schools, neither to parents nor to the student himself. Problems affecting the well-being of children related to the passport are not wanted to be seen or corrected. Although persons under 16 years of age are excluded from the passport, it affects younger people indirectly. For some reason, the government insists on extending the period of validity of the corona pass from the omicronvariant, regardless of the loss of the effectiveness of the vaccines and the casting problems of the passport, even for a longer period of time than the THL views. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, ministers and representatives, you will be aware that in many other countries entrepreneurs have been able to introduce rapid testing. It has helped to keep restaurants and baths open, for example. In addition, a second government proposal has also been discussed today following this debate. It concerns the so-called forced vaccinations of nurses. Do you really think that a decision would not jeopardise the quality and availability of care? Many people are already thinking about changing the sector because vaccination is not given an alternative to testing. Only tests can determine whether someone is sick or not. The Korona Pass does not prove anything at all, and no one should be discriminated against solely by default. Mr President! There is no longer any logic or moderation in these government interest rates, and these proposals must not be accepted.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u26	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u27	Mr President! We have a Government proposal 226 before us, and tomorrow we will discuss the Government proposal 230. What we are talking about now is this extension of the corona pass and tomorrow the forced vaccination of carers. Mr President! I firmly believe that today's speeches will be quite read in the future. These speeches will still be read in the history books in the future and will be read under a section entitled “Societal Peace”. There,for example,there may be a sub-header,“that the people were divided. ” This corona passport has divided the people. It has even created many problems within families and in friendships. As a result of media-induced fear-sweeping, there are very opposing opinions there, and friendships have been disrupted as a result. Mr President! This corona passport — what is it about? It is clear that corona vaccinees also spread corona. Research data, reported cases and data confirm that vaccinated subjects can also spread corona. Vaccinated people also develop corona — from which there is exactly the same research knowledge — regardless of the number of vaccines, there are one, two or three. This latest variant has also passed through the third vaccine. This is also a pandemic of vaccinated individuals in that respect. According to statistics, the proportion of people vaccinated in Finland who need hospitalisation due to corona is higher than that of non-vaccinated persons. Of course, I understand that the unvaccinated in Finland are slightly over-represented, but if this were a normal vaccine that worked, then there would be no vaccinated among them.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u30	Thank you. — and Mr Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u31	Mr President! The number of hundreds of e-mails in recent days reflects the deep suspicion that a small proportion of the population experience these corona activities, in particular vaccinations and coronapass. I think it would be very important now for all the questions, even those that sound stupid, to be answered openly and that the interest rate measures should indeed be based on clearly studied and well-founded information. I am in favour of a high level of vaccine coverage. [MikaNiikkoarvo]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u34	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u35	Mr President! First of all, I would like to support the statement made by Mrs Räsänen. The Christian Democrats consider it important that at this stage these rapid tests for antigens for consumer use should be introduced quickly, so that we can better ensure that the person does not have a virus infection at that time. This antigen test would now be the way in which there could really be a relationship of certainty that the person entering the holding is not infected. The corona passport currently in use cannot provide a similar type of certainty. It is a pity that we in many European countries have been using these antigen tests for a very long time now, and that we are using them specifically for consumers, but we are now in the process of introducing them. Of course, I am pleased that there has already been a pre-trial motion in the Committee on Finance, which is today in this Chamber, namely that the VAT rate for these antigen tests should be set at zero, which means that when shops and pharmacies commit that this reduction will be taken directly to prices, these tests will then be available economically to all. Mr President! In this situation, it is also very important that there are messages coming out of this house that do not contribute to inciting a different kind of confrontation and fear. It has been very confusing that e-mails have come in that they tell us that we are now about to impose a curfew on non-vaccinated people in Finland or that we are closing A message has been sent from a congressman from this house, a neo-Uusimaa or another region, and — and I have written proof of this — that there is now going to be compulsory vaccination, that is to say, Article 47 of the Act on communicable diseases. So, for God's sake, we representatives here have a real responsibility not to foment confrontation and not to add to the fears of our citizens. We have a common challenge here. Together we are now trying to overcome this pandemic, and we in Finland now have every chance of doing so: once we improve the vaccine coverage, we have a better chance of coping with this situation. Indeed, I hope that each of us here will send a message in such a way that we are not instigating more fears. Indeed, the Christian Democrats are now pushing this antigen test quickly. We need to suspend the corona passport, because the corona passport is currently unable to give the certainty that the person is not a carrier of the virus. This government proposal and this report are problematic in the sense that, on the other hand, there is a clear view that entry restrictions should be more stringent.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u37	Yes, thank you. — Representative Tanus absent. — — — — Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u38	Mr President! The Finns have consistently opposed the corona pass all along on the grounds that it gives a false sense of security. The Korona Pass does not prevent the spread of infections, and the person vaccinated may also become ill with the corona. It is gratifying that we have received support from HUS today, and in the past THL has also suggested that corona passports should be abandoned at least temporarily, because the omicronvirus infection passes through these vaccines. The True Finns make three statements. The opinion will be put forward if we do not get enough support for the rejection proposal we have tabled. Declaration 1: ‘The Commission calls for the government to become involved in measures to enable the large-scale availability and use Declaration 2: ‘The Commission requires that the Government prepares a single andrequired electronic entry declaration for different areas of Finland “ Declaration 3: ‘The Commission requires that the effects of the law on the implementation of equality Let me add to this that the Finns of Peru have brought the antigen pitch as an alternative to coronas. We must all understand that the vaccine taken a few months ago does not tell us whether or not the person is secreting the virus today. On the other hand, the rapid antigen test taken on the same day is very likely to indicate whether or not the virus is secreted by the person. We think it's a lot more reliable than a corona pass. [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola :RepresentativeJuuso,you certainly did not make the proposals for a declaration which you read?]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u41	Good. Now it's been understood here, too. Thank you! — All right, Mr Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, I support the statements made by Mr Juuso. It is a good thing that we are discussing this in peace, and I would like to see Mr Lindén reading the views of Professor of Social Ethics in Hallama on how guilt and perhaps impatience create confrontation and trust between people suffer if we are forced to talk about it. He says it must sound like an easy way, but it is a drastic way and it can cause the opposite. He further notes that the corona epidemic ‘has changed from a salava cargoexception to normal conditions without our consent. We must now find more sustainable means of action, because we cannot be in crisis mode forever’. I think this is a very good observation because, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also states in its opinion on this, we have been doing different legislation in a huge hurry all the time. We must give way to different views, because, as you know, we are not sure how this new virus will behave and how long this virus will be among us. It is therefore necessary to discuss matters in peace and to understand that there are many people there who are in distress and fear. Perhaps we are laughing at them — perhaps now that mode has changed a little, at least people are no longer called foil hats. That is a good thing, because even scientists here are puzzled that how this vaccination now protects us from a serious disease. The Finns of Peru — as scientists have told us — believe in science — that vaccination is now the best protection against serious disease, but it does not prevent the spread of the disease, and that is why the corona pass is not the solution if we want to prevent the spread of the disease. Depends on what you want now. Rapid tests would then be a good way, and we have also tabled amendments to the articles, and I hope that the Christian Democrats have supported it now that you support this rapid testing. — I do not know, I hope that you voted with it both in committee and here when this matter was discussed. I hope you can be more specific. I really hope that everyone's opinions will be respected on this issue. And as far as border security is concerned, the government will decide how to bring the proposals. These are two things in principle so different that, first of all, they should have been brought in as completely different proposals and, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs points out — once again — we had too little time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u43	Thank you. — and Mr Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u44	Mr President! I came out here because I'm assuming that maybe three minutes isn't quite enough. — I am not going to blame anyone in this speech, but this is a political forum, and we are now making very important decisions, and I must say quite frankly that I am quite shocked that the Group of the People's Party is proposing to reject this law. If this is rejected, all border controls, all the restrictions, i.e. Articles 58a to (k) with the specific restrictions, will no longer be in force at the beginning of next year, because they will now only be in force until the end of this year and this will give them a continuation. So the proposal to reject the Finns of Peru makes us completely unarmed in the fight against the corona, [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] Of course we can discuss these different details, what is best, which is the second best and so on a way to fight the corona. I myself have spoken in this Chamber — it is verifiable from the minutes — already a year and a half ago, in June 20, in favour of the wider use of rapid tests. That makes perfect sense, and I know that there have been differences between medical districts in this respect, for example. In Northern Finland they have been used more extensively than here in southern Finland. In reality, we need all these means. We need these, could you say, medical tests, we need rapid tests, we need vaccinations, we need border control, we need restrictions, and also the corona pass has had its full meaning, which... Now I come to the important point: I would like to say frankly that you are here to distort the position of THL and HUS. Both expert organisations supported this legislation. They have not said that a corona passport is something that should not be used and that all restrictions should be lifted. The question now is that there are certain situations at present that not everyone who has a corona passport has adequate protection from two vaccines, for example, because it has been five or six months since the second vaccination and they have not yet received a third, and in that situation they may have been exposed. It is quite clear that there is a very large difference — in your speeches, among other things: Mäenpää admitted that there is a very big difference — whether the person is unvaccinated or has received two and three vaccines in the future. 4.3 million Finns have currently received two vaccines, and then we have about 700,000 people, i.e. over 12 years of age who have not received two vaccines. And when we look at the hospital load, even if the situation has now risen to the point that half of the patients in hospitals who come to us this morning, according to the THL data, have a total of 269, of which 50 — although I have heard that even more recent information today is that more than 60 patients in the ICU — would have received two vaccines — there is, in this respect, a significant difference between the population, 4.3 million or 700,000 people — if we had not been vaccinated — that vaccine critique has been heard here from you again —
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u45	Like this. — And when Mr Lindén’s speech gave rise to a willingness to comment on it, I shall open a brief debate. — Mr Rantanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u46	Mr President! Mr Lindén here is twisting things. If you have listened to what I said in the very first speech, I said that we are asking people to get that vaccine because it helps fight a serious form of disease. But the problem now is that we're going to have those permeable infections. You know it very well as a doctor — they come for those who have been vaccinated twice, but when they come for those who have been vaccinated up to three times with this omicron, when this corona pass does not work. After all, we cannot think that a person goes with a corona pass with his sense of security to an event and then the next day he meets his old, multi-sick mother and we accept this. In other words, this corona passport must now be decommissioned, as proposed by THL's tar pit and HUS.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u47	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u51	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u52	Mr President! I was not talking primarily about the corona passport, I was talking about the fact that by rejecting this proposal we would at the same time abandon all the restrictions which, in fact, in the most effective way — along with vaccination — we are fighting this fight against the corona. When we look at the curves that tell us about the presence of the corona first in spring 2020, then in late autumn 2020, then in spring 2021 and now that the fourth wave is going on, we have always got it down by targeted restrictions in that situation. Well, now, in addition to the restrictions, we have had vaccines in use since last spring, and if we did not have vaccines in use, we would have many times the hospital load at the moment. I am talking about the fact that we have to keep those articles in place where there is scope for these restrictions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u53	Congressman Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Congressman Lindén claimed that... I began to smile, Mr Lindén. Managing Director of THL Markku Tervahauta: “The need to put a rona on the passshelf is very short-lived. “ It's just the kind of message that comes out of there. And when you listen to Yle all morning, that's where the spirit comes from. Well, as far as your other speech is concerned, I would like to point out that in the future, the government will bring forward a proposal at a time and will not go along with one — a reference decision to the same button. It's irresponsible. Important things, one by one, to be decided in the Chamber — so that a sensible policy can be achieved. Not like this — not like this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u55	Let us take Mr Lindén again, when the name has now been mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u56	Mr. Chairman! I personally agree that when the situation becomes difficult enough, as it seems to be now, then it is time for restrictions, and the restrictions mean that there will not be a corona pass for certain activities. It does not mean that the corona pass has been a bad, useless way, it does not mean that, but in a bad enough situation, restrictions will have to be used, and even the corona pass will not allow people to attend, because, as is known here, a certain percentage of the vaccines received will leak through and cause the load. I have spoken about the restrictions that you are rejecting here while you are rejecting this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u57	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Representative Lindén, respect this institution and do not give false information, false witness about your neighbor. Other representatives of government parties realize that they don't care about this kind of misinformation, with which you alone are now fighting. We Finns are in particular in favour of border control and we are against the corona pass. Your problem is that you've gone out to play and bring these two shows together. If we were in the basic Finnish government and said that we wanted to increase the refugee quota to 2000 but to stop completely humanitarian immigration, and we would bring these proposals together, then it is certain that you would all vote down because you want humanitarian immigration. This is the logic why we cannot support this proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u59	Congressman Holopainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u60	Mr President! It is extremely worrying that some of the representatives of the People's Republic of Finland, in particular, question the importance of the information studied here. When we talk about who is suffering from this, there is a very serious situation here where people have already had to be converted from surgery, heart surgery, other important surgery, cancer surgery. Do you think that it is better for many entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, to lose their livelihood because this epidemic is also continuing because, unfortunately, some people are not taking vaccines? By the way, this has been reduced in prices, how much it costs for society, and it will also cost us potentially lost generations of learning for children and young people too, if this epidemic continues. Do you not think that this is about the freedom of people, including the freedom of those who act responsibly and have taken these vaccinations?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u61	And Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Well, first of all, we're counting on researched information.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u65	Congressman Kyllönen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u66	Mr President! The right of a weaker person or the right of a stronger person: which one do we have a closer eye on, and which will we resort to when the law and its effectiveness are assessed? Even quick tests are nothing to be saved unless the test system can be built so that it can be genuinely able to get verified data to people, not so that everyone can, according to their conscience, carry out those tests, whether they are used or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u67	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u68	Mr President! Indeed, at the moment it seems that it is time for restrictions. In my opinion, we must obey and understand these leading health authorities in that sense that when they say that the corona passport should now be suspended, then surely this is the wisest thing to do. The Christian Democrats have therefore wanted to bring this to the side of the antigen test, because we believe that using it would enable us to ensure that the person entering a state is not a carrier of the virus. In that sense, Mrs Kyllönen, I am surprised when you said that this would not help in this situation, because the second option is a total lock-out, that no one can go anywhere, and we believe that these antigen tests will allow us to be safe when it is necessary and necessary for more people to be in the same condition where we do not know about the disease situation. This antigen test would be the solution we are presenting here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u69	Congressman Berg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u70	Mr President! Although the protection provided by the vaccine is not 100%, we will probably agree that it is better than that afforded by non-vaccinated vaccines. [Base Finns Group : Yes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u71	Like this. — And now, ladies and gentlemen, I can see who has asked to speak during the time that the V button has been activated, that it may have been pressed, and I will give all those people one speech. Mr Lindén has already had two speeches, but the others will have at least one, and then we will go back to the list of speakers. — And now Mr Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u72	Mr President! Indeed, it would be desirable not to deliberately distort from government representatives the speeches made by the True Finns and to play simpler than you are. Yes, you have heard and understood what is said here, but you are simply pretending to be something quite different. Now that the government seems to have problems in this legislative process, I can advise you on how to differentiate between this border legislation and the corona passport. It goes this way: Tomorrow you will vote this motion down according to the rejection of the Finns. After that, the government will have 10 days, the government and Parliament will have 10 days on this side of the year to discuss your new proposal, which you will bring to Parliament, from which these corona pass boxes have been crossed over. You can take the example of a clause made by the Finns in the original reading of this corona pass, in which those corona passages were cross-checked, but these border lines were included. Is that clear to you?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u73	Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u74	Mr President! When you listen to Mr Lindén, you must think of the proverb that the dog is admiring the rattle: so angry Lindén here defends the government’s proposal, even though he certainly understands that the Finns are right in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u79	Like this. — And it was said so many times during the speech by Mrs Lindén that a third speech was given to Mr Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Do you think that Article 58i(5) of the Act currently under discussion has been overlooked by the People’s Republic of Finland, which reads as follows: ‘The Government Regulation may regulate the period during which public events, premises and activities are subject to the conditions laid down in Article 58 and 58d,as well as to the obligations and restrictions laid down in Articles 58a(2) and (3) of the Act, and whether the operator requires the presentation of the certificate referred to This was a complicated legal text. This means in Finnish that, even if the Government could provide for a decree tomorrow that a temporary corona pass cannot be reached at events that have been subject to restrictions by the Regional State Administrative Authority or the municipality. This is in this law, which you do not want to continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u81	Like this. — I now give the floor to the representatives of Niikko, Tanus and Mäenpää. — — — — Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u82	Thank you, Speaker! Mr Lindén, you can also see that it is not a little irresponsible with a corona pass to get to the opportunities, to squeeze into one large crowd, knowing that this current variant passes through this vaccine. Isn't that irresponsible?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u85	And Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u86	Mr President! When we originally dealt with this draft law for the first time in committee, i.e. both border security and the corona passport, I specifically argued that these should have been separated. Urgent border security should have been taken forward, and the corona passport, which was already subject to a lot of irregularities, should have been dealt with more appropriately. And then what happened? Why do we have so many infections now, even though the omicron, for example, has not yet spread in Pirkanmaa? With confidence in the corona pass, basic health-security codes of conduct have been forgotten. The use of the mask has been very bad. It has really been packed in small spaces, and testing has been what it has been. In other words, as early as spring 20 we have spoken in favour of using masks, rationally acting and also those rapid tests being carried out in the front row when being tracked in order to catch up to the infected chains before they can spread. And that is why we think that we should return to basics, to basic behaviour, to the use of masks, to rapid tests and not rely excessively on the corona pass that has not brought it, and especially in the case of omicron, it is an unfortunately weak instrument at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u87	Like this. — Mr Mäenpää, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u88	Mr President! On that toilet, Mr Lindén said just now that the Finns of Peru want to keep the borders open — or on border security and this corona pass that we want to reject them all. Mr President! We discussed this first issue of corona passports here on 15 October. I will use my own speech, which I have also used then. ‘Dear ’ — she is a lady speaker,but
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u89	And now to the list of speakers. — Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u90	Mr President! It was a little pain not being able to participate in that conversation. At that point, I thought it might have been shorter, but it's okay. It made me feel good about Christmas when I listened to the speeches of the Christian Democrat leaders. I have longed for this kind of responsibility and overall vision from the Christian Democrats before, and here it comes. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] This was also a symbol of the basic issue of Christmas donkeys, which you have raised and which we Social Democrats have emphasised, and I believe that it is also the view of the government. Now we are in such a situation in Finland that everything needs to be done so that such so-called confrontation is no longer deepened [MikaNiikkoarvo] However, this is not as black and white as you, my dear Finns, want to convey with your own statements. For example, this corona passport: I went to the movies a week ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u91	Thank you. — and Mr Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u92	Mr President! It is very unfortunate that in this Parliament, the political groups, together with the VKK, are spreading false information about the Finns and our positions. It must be nice for one side and the other to poke us, but we have had a very clear line through the line. Of the things about which false information has been disseminated here, I will briefly review both as a representative of Parliament and as Vice-President of my party, what we Finns really think. In the past, when we were dealing with the corona passport, which is still under discussion today, we called for it to be rejected, and then we also gave the criticism that border control and corona passport, their handling, should not be combined, and now you have done this again. They should be separated. We are in favour of health safety. We are in favour of these rapid tests, which could be introduced, which unfortunately has not been given enough attention in relation to the government. Unfortunately, the Korona Pass does not tell us whether a person has been infected, whether it is germinating, whether he can spread. The fact that we have been vaccinated, of course, prevents the most serious form of disease, which is a great thing, but we cannot know when there are a lot of corona-passed people in the condition, whether they have the disease. Instead, when you're tested, we can be sure. I find it quite incomprehensible that you, the government, do not apply the same principles that we apply here in Parliament itself. These rapid tests have been distributed to each of us in our offices, and here we ourselves act as we see it to be health-safe. We ourselves do those quick tests in the morning so that we don't infect each other. But how is it that, at the level of the policy we are pursuing for the rest of the people, all of a sudden these rapid tests are quite... Here we are talking only about corona passports. There is a terrible contradiction between this and reality, and I ask you to listen. Here in the opposition, it is our job to make criticisms and challenge you to make better decisions. We have tried to bang on this matter of rapid testing, and I hope that you will be able to contribute to it. The bill also came in order to get these tax deductions if you buy these rapid tests. At the moment, when citizens themselves have to buy them, it will be very expensive for the purse when they are between 5 and 6 euros per test, which should be done and several times a month. Here, take a booth. Mr Gustafsson, you spoke very much about not being opposed, but your speech when I listened to it was a complete confrontation from the beginning to the end. On top of that, you tried very hard to praise KD, but I noticed from your introductory remarks that you did leave with the pedal that KD finally heard responsible speech, even though it had always spoken exactly the same things. It's just a bit of a fling, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u93	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u94	Mr President! There has been a lot of discussion here about the corona passport and, indeed, experts have pointed out that this worsening corona situation and the worsening situation in the capacity of intensive care would make it necessary to place the corona passport on the shelf, so that different gatherings should not be organised even with a corona pass. Indeed, in this situation, the use of antigenic rapid tests is a more reliable way of ensuring that the person does not spread the corona virus. I do, however, find it problematic that this resistance to coronapass is combined with resistance to vaccines, as is the prohibition of vaccination.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u98	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u99	Mr President! It has been said from this corona pass that it guarantees the free circulation of the disease, and that is what it seems to be. Such a practical case recently, known to the media: A minister had been on a double-vaccinated corona pass at a big, big public event in the arena, waving there without a mask on the corona positive. This is possible with the force of a corona pass. Then, through him, the Prime Minister who met this minister was exposed to corona infection and spent the night at the bar with corona pass, even though he should have known that he had been exposed to the corona. In other words, this kind of spreading or risking the spread of the interest rate, this corona pass even makes it possible for the government, so I kind of understand that you have the enthusiasm to continue to use it and give it an extension. Perhaps this would be some kind of relief here if it were not true, but unfortunately it is true every word. Another practical example of the absurdity of the corona pass. I went to a nutrition store myself a while ago, I was practically the only customer of my company in that nutrition store. The Korona Pass had to be used to get in there, even though there was practically no one else there. At the same time, earlier that day, hundreds of people, if not thousands of people, some masks, others did not come to the neighboring store. No one has ever been required to enter that local store — and should not be required — but why should the only customer who goes to that restaurant now have to be required to have that corona passport when there is always a local store, throughout the epidemic and all the restrictions — remote schools, the closures of Uusimaa — with a mask recommendation, perhaps, perhaps not? We didn't have masks at first. At that time THL was misled that masks were of no use when those masks were not available by the government. When at the beginning the shops were not even masked by those people, how could the shops now have been there during this whole corona epidemic without any corona passports and masks, but these restaurants, cultural events and others are such bad coronals that now the passport has to be continued there? There is absolutely no point in these matters. In the world, these practices are moving away from this rapid testing. And now, at the latest, this coming of the omicron, when it carries through the infection of two and three vaccines, will make this coronapass completely unworkable for the last time. You're going to stop this spring, I'm telling you that. Infections will spread so much despite these passports that the passport will be used, restrictions will be introduced, the government will come back with this thing between the legs of the tail.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u101	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u102	Mr President! This is where Mr Lindén shouted the interlude, which I thought was very much in favour of. In other words, it would be extremely important now — and in this way we could say that we would get out of a stalemate — that these border security measures should continue. They are necessary in this situation, and this government proposal is good in that respect. Instead, there was a weakening of that border security in the protest of the Finns of Peru, and that is why it is difficult to support. But what is important now is for the government to send a clear message that the corona passport will be placed on the shelf. That would prevent us from having to make even greater changes. And it would be important to have these antigen tests. I believe that, when the Minister of Finance is in turn able to present this zero tax rate, which we have already dealt with in advance in the Committee on Finance, and we will quickly get it through this house, we will be able to ensure that during Christmas when people go — hopefully not in so many numbers, but are moving — to meet relatives and acquaintances, we have a situation where people go only when they are aware that they do not carry the virus. And putting this situation into effect in Finland would now be extremely important, plus all the other corona security measures. It has also been very well pointed out here at the mouth of the Finns living in Finland, especially in the health sector, that this antigen test is one way. We definitely need more: we need a mask, we need a distance, we need hygiene, we need everything we have learned to do along the way. And we must continue along the path of understanding that this number of contacts and what is being transmitted there is basically what we are now able to do to combat this escalation of the epidemic. And indeed, as has been pointed out here in many speeches, we must now constructively be able to communicate to the public in Finland in this situation that it is not in anyone's interest that the conspiracy theories of all the world are beginning to wade in Finland. It is very important that we realise that this is not going to be politically exploited in any way, because it is a matter of the health of the nation. I think it is so important that no one should succumb to such cheap conspiracy theories. Indeed, when there are rumours of curfews and isolations and forced vaccinations in Uusimaa and God knows what, we must all tell in this house that these things are not being done. The Christian Democrats have always pointed out that in vaccinations we have always been of the opinion that it is a matter for each person. We have not been in favour of forced vaccinations, but we are firmly behind these health safety measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u103	Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u104	Mr President! Many good speeches have been made here and it has also been repeated that it is known that vaccines that we really warmly recommend — and at the same time we say that we do not support forced vaccinations, but we have urged that we warmly recommend vaccinations to anyone who can only take vaccinations — reportedly and according to studies to protect against a serious form of disease, whatever the viral variant. But just as Hanna Nohynek said at the outset, at the same time it is not known how we can get the infection and whether we can pass it on. And now, at the latest, with the arrival of the omicron — and even during the delta virus — it has been clearly known that we can and can transmit the infection. And it has been very unfortunate that, when the corona pass came into force, unfortunately, at that point there came a message from the government that we can now live freely and now we can go. And unfortunately — at least in Pirkanmaa, the leading doctors in the hospital district have last found out this morning — these health - safety good habits, health - safety behaviour, were then forgotten. The mask has not been used, has been crammed into small, dense nightclubs or other concerts, and that is where the disease has spread — including among the vaccinated. And sometimes I wonder, especially now with the omicron, whether this corona pass has been good to what extent — at least it has brought a great deal of confrontation when it came — and whether there has been any effect in the end compared to having us open concerts, music, other events. They really are needed today. After this corona period, we need culture and events. But we also have articles under the Act on Disease Control underlining the health security measures — the use of masks, distances, numbers of people, and so on. In other words, somehow I think that if we do not rely on a simple vaccine or a corona pass and when we communicate clearly, there may be a greater chance that a greater proportion of the population will behave in a health-proof and responsible manner, and in that way we could better ignore the virus and ensure that we do not get infected ourselves, and yet keep the activities open. However, at the moment the situation is such — and there are 10,000 infections per day and so on in the neighbouring country — that it is now necessary to carefully assess what the situation is and what the measures are in order to put an end to this process of spreading. And it certainly has not been helped by corona passports, but by other measures. But I was particularly hoping that, even if we disagreed and had different priorities, that confrontation could somehow end and we could better respect one another and each other's opinions and find better solutions than what has been proposed so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u105	That's right. — and Mr Rantanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u106	Mr President! I am collecting some of the things that have come to mind from this debate. Representative Holopainen here called for researched information that we Finns did not study about value. But now that we come to the corona pass, there is no study of it. There is no data on this in Finland, and therefore, for example, the European Agency for Disease Control does not recommend that it be extended as there is no evidence of its effectiveness. I would therefore like to say that this proposal is not based on the information that has been studied, but I personally believe that there has certainly been an emergency in our country, not only for the sake of companies, but also just as much for the sake of the restaurant and tourism sector, the sector of events and so on, and that we have tried to find a way to keep these industries open, which in itself is an entirely understandable objective and certainly an objective which we all share. But in some way, even intellectually, I would find it more honest not to make it a condition for its livelihood that only certain people get there. I would think that it would most likely be easier for people to understand the risk of contact — we are talking about human contact when we talk about the spread of the virus — and when a person is aware of it, he is more likely to wear masks, remember distances and remember its hand hygiene. In a way, it has been unfortunate to see that a lot of research has been carried out on indoor hygiene during this corona pandemic, but these studies have also been passed very quickly, so that we have actually left the corona passport, but it has not been done to improve air hygiene in restaurants, for example. Some restaurant owners have worked hard on this, but alone they have been shouting into the wind. Well, then, if you think about this confrontation that has come here too, people are worried — they are upset, they are worried — and not all people consider this corona pass to be a good system, and I think that in this Chamber too these voices should be heard. In this regard, too, this amendment to the article proposed by the Finns of Finland in connection with this law that there would be rapid testing of these services and the use of the business, in addition to the current situation of whether the person carries the virus or not, would be more equal. It wouldn't separate anyone at the time. As has already been said many times today, unfortunately, this new variant in particular goes through these vaccines. And it certainly wasn’t in anyone’s mind when these vaccines came, but I believe that quite a few of us believed in a herd shelter and that we would get past the pandemic. We can't make it. We can't get out of here with a third shot. This does not end there, as experts have said. And as far as this is concerned, which the Christian Democrats raised in their speeches, that in their own protest against the removal of this second test, we base it on the views of experts. The THL, among other things, in its own opinion on this second test after entry, states that, first, it is not followed whether it is taken and, second, it is often no longer positive. That this is, in a way, a pointless use of health care, and we based this view on expert opinions in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Now it was raised here that now that the Finns are against the passport, what happens to entrepreneurs. Well, we're offering you an option here, the quick test. They are also used in other countries, so that if we do not have information about it, we may as well go and see it there — as Mr Juuso has already said here that we do not need to reinvent the wheel here. And it has to be said that I myself have noticed that I regret even participating in this whole corona debate today, with the alumni here and then with the deanists here, and the truth is bound to go somewhere in the middle. But I do not think it is good either that the word ‘emergency brake’ is used in government management and the word ‘threat wave’ is used. Everyone sees in the news that this is the same thing now across Europe: these cases are increasing. The essential question is whether this omicron is now such a variant that it is dangerous or that it is not dangerous — whether it increases hospital care, increases serious cases of disease. And this is the point. If I have understood correctly from various debates where some non-politicians discuss, then I have understood that this would be the best possible situation for us if we had a virus variant that causes a mild disease. For we would get into that shelter, and out of this, if I have understood correctly. And in this regard, I think that we also took a rather quick shot — if I have understood correctly, this epidemic in South Africa is already beginning to subside and there have not been so many serious diseases, so that we can hope, put all our hands together, or whatever it is that we think is going to get out of this. But I am concerned about the division, and I would like to see the overall assessment which this professor of social ethics, Jaana Hallama, raised excellently at the weekend: what is the endurance, when we are constantly in combat mode, the paints are moving all the time and we get really like this corona pass, which actually, however, actually separate the people. I think that this message, which Professor Hallama said in his interview, should be taken seriously and remembered that what is now is by no means normal — a corona pass is not.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u107	Thank you. — And Mrs Holopainen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u108	Mr President! According to the information published by Yle recently, we see these familiar statistics: in November, in the 50-69 age group, there were no more than 40 per 100,000 people with vaccination protection who had received intensive care, and only 1 or 2 of those who had full vaccination protection in this age group had intensive care. So here, at least for this delta, there has been quite a load in society precisely because, unfortunately, not all of us adults have taken the vaccine protection that has been offered. From that point of view, I find it irresponsible that some of the representatives of the People's Republic of Finland bring disinformation to this Chamber too, not all of them, but some of them then bring and reflect here on these side effects, which of course can be discussed, but they must be related to what is then the alternative if there is no vaccine protection. Now, and of course throughout this epidemic, it is important to first introduce effective effective means of reducing the progress of this epidemic or its effects, which also have the least impact on people's lives. I fully agree with that. Masks, and even masks that better protect, should be introduced by now at the latest, and I agree with these tests. At the end of August, I asked whether there should also be a test practice in schools — an open question. It has been used in many European countries, and children who are a little younger have also had masks when this epidemic situation has been worse. All of this must be discussed, and I also think that we need to create an overall plan on which activities in this society are primarily to be kept open if, for example, such a pandemic strikes again and if this continues. This is what is needed in order to sharpen the question of whether we first have the ICUs open, the hospitals, then perhaps the schools. What are the priority activities? Then we will be better aware of what activities we may then have to impose restrictions if this strikes. And of course it must also be noted that if an epidemic spreads among a certain age group, that too must be weighed, all of this whole thing. I fully agree that these effective small measures must be introduced. But at the moment, it may be that this omicron momentarily or for a longer period of time is making the capacity for intensive care more difficult, and then, of course, we will have to introduce restrictions to reduce these contacts. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u109	Like this. — and Mrs Kyllönen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u110	Mr President! No action alone is a blissful thing in the management of the interest rate and in the fight against the interest rate, but what is being done must be the sum of the whole. We need to be able to confirm the vaccine coverage. We need to continue our health-security policies. We must also have a corona passport in the situations where it makes sense to use it and in the case of a pandemic where it makes sense to use it. We must be able to use rapid tests to the extent that it is considered reasonable, but we must also recognize that rapid tests are not something that can be saved alone. Quick tests are usually smart when the patients are symptomatic. Then the rapid test is many times a marker that shows which direction you are going, whether you are positive or negative, and yet that positive test result also needs to be tested with more accurate laboratory testing before you can be sure of it. I would like to point out here that no block alone will solve this whole thing, but the whole puzzle must be united in order for these things to work. Perhaps the fundamental question in the speech by Director Tervahauta is also what he meant when he said that there might soon be a need to put a corona pass on the shelf. When the matter is removed from context, one can understand that as a leader he would oppose the use of a corona pass in any situation, but when I have studied his interview, I have understood that at a time when the situation, as it were, spreads out of hand when there are so many infections, then the corona pass is not the tool with which to operate. More specific restrictions, closure measures and specific regional solutions will then have to be put in place. Perhaps the most important thing in all of this is that if the vaccine coverage can no longer be increased, we are constantly running a certain number of people in need of intensive care, and if we are wondering here what our intensive care capacity as a rule exists for, yes, serious health situations, but at the moment we have people in line for surgery in serious medical situations who are not able to operate because intensive care facilities are very well equipped for unvaccinated corona patients. This is a question in which I think we should also have the courage to have a dialogue on how to prioritise this whole. Will those people remain in line for surgery that would require critical measures and certainty that an intensive care facility will be in place after that procedure, or will we continue to allow, in part even on the basis of incorrect information, the situation that the vaccine coverage in this country is no longer increasing? That dialogue must be courageously held, and the fears, worries, emergencies and, many times, justifiable backgrounds must be discussed with people who have missed the vaccines, which is why they are not being given the vaccines. The essential question is whether we will be able to protect those most fragile and vulnerable people in this country and whether we will build a system that will also meet that challenge. I have not heard much discussion in this Chamber about whether we are concerned about people who are unable to undergo surgery because intensive care is now being filled with other patients. I think that is an essential question. These people cannot be any weaker or less valuable than those who end up in intensive care because of the corona. We are talking about vaccines and their effectiveness, but we also receive influenza vaccines every year, and they also do not have 100% effectiveness. Few vaccines are designed to have 100% efficacy, but in general their purpose is to prevent a fatal infection or a fatal disease or to reach an ICU. What makes me particularly sad is that there is always confrontation in these matters when it comes to bringing in a wide range of tools, options and solutions. In Finland, in democracy, things are based on the fact that we are building an equal system in which people can participate, but at some point we also come to the question that everyone has not only rights but also responsibilities and responsibilities, even in this matter. At that point, each of us can think about my rights, my fundamental rights, against the fundamental rights of the weaker and truly difficult people in health, and then what is it as if it were a winner? I say that, in that situation, if we put these things against each other, we are all losers. That is why I hope that we can have this debate properly, bearing in mind that the management and control of the interest rate is the sum of the entities, not a single, separated, separated piece there, another here. It also gives rise to responsibility in this area. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u111	Thank you, Mrs Kyllönen. — Mr Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u112	Mr President! My speech was shortened by the excellent speeches made by Mrs Kyllönen and Mrs Holopainen here, but I would like to say in general that this debate has been a good one, albeit at times intense, and I would nevertheless like to thank the President for allowing such a rather ghastly debate here. I would also like to say that when I listened carefully to Mr Rantanen's speech from the podium, that was a great deal of wisdom. Listening to each other here and understanding each other is a very important matter. Some time ago I quoted Article 58i(5) of the Act on communicable diseases. I will not quote it again, but I feel that way — and I have already received feedback this morning and before in a debate about it — that it may have been overlooked. Quite wisely it was stipulated here that we have therefore given the Government the opportunity to adopt a regulation which, in the very situation in which we are now in, can temporarily suspend the use of the corona passport when the infectious disease situation has become bad. And it goes on from the point where I finished the quote: ‘The Department of Health and Welfare must not delay informing the Council of State,where it considers that the situation mentioned is justified in the event of a threat. “ Well, now on television we have heard an interview with the Director-General of the THL on Saturday, but although, of course, the Director-General in the interview also represents the organisation, I am not aware whether the THL has now officially informed the Government — which I understand will negotiate with them tomorrow — that we now have a situation in which that mandate should be introduced. My personal opinion — and I stress it so — is that we are at least very close if we are not already in that position. As far as rapid tests are concerned, with these existing instruments, this is quite easy. I found a tweet I sent here on May 5th 20th. It reads as follows: ‘If there had to be a reliable corona virus test that would cost 10euro and which every Finncan doin one month,it would be easy to root out this That is, realism to expectations.” Well, the price was one. Now it's cheaper, and if it's even more subsidized, it's even cheaper. I mentioned that ‘one month’. It could be once a week. So in May 20 I have been a staunch supporter of rapid tests, and I am still. Just as many colleagues have said here: we now need all these tools so that we can succeed once again in this fight against the epidemic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u113	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u114	Mr President! Interesting conversation, I must say. When you follow it from that office, you have to take part in it. Firstly, Mr President, this accusation of confrontation is conducive to confrontation. So there are camps on both sides as such, and now it is a little divided in the Chamber, but especially among the citizens. And that is something we should give up and discuss on a factual basis and not blame someone else who disagrees on the same issue. I would like to use the extension of safety-promoting vaccines instead of forced vaccination. I would like to put an end to the contradiction that there is compulsory vaccination: there is the possibility of taking a vaccine for safety, both for the citizens and for the medical staff who want it. We should soften this mode of discussion in such a way that we do not. It has been well said here, in my opinion, that communication about vaccination was not immediately followed. We gave the impression that, after two vaccines, we were protected from the virus, and we continued it for a little too long, even though we already had the impression that this would not be the case. We did not know how to communicate with it and perhaps turn it around about a month and a half earlier to protect ourselves from serious disease. And now we have another moment when we have another virus here, which will make that dream, as we did, completely unnecessary. As far as I am concerned, I still have confidence that vaccines can protect a person at risk from the serious disease, and I am personally standing in line for that vaccine. I also hope that those people who care for my 83-year-old mother will take the vaccine for themselves, but also for the sake of protecting that dear old man. All in all, I hope that this debate will be brisk, but a little more understanding of the opinions of others. I can't insult the people of Peru for incomprehensibility. No, an opinion is an opinion, and it must be respected. I can genuinely disagree with you on some points, but I am not saying that your opinions are completely wrong, because at least I, as a layman, am not able to judge medically or on the basis of statistics or on the basis of anything else, who is right and who is wrong. I very much hope, as Mrs Kyllönen has pointed out here, that this debate will take place on the basis of facts and that it will proceed so that one in this Parliament can agree that we want to overcome this disease. This pandemic is real. But when we read our emails that say this has been planned years ago that this kind of pandemic comes, and the vaccines are absolutely useless, we would agree, however, that the facts are the basis for discussion. Then we can disagree on how to treat it. It would be a good thing if the tests were such — and I am absolutely in favour — that their reliability would be at a level that states that they do not carry the virus, but that we could also be sure that there can be no infection, even if there is not yet a symptom. And I don't yet have the wisdom that if I take the quick test in the morning that I can't still be an infector. And this is what's here. Let us talk, as Mr Lindén says, about testing once a month, now once a week and so on, but once a day not necessarily, even though we in Parliament are now in a privileged position to be able to test ourselves in the morning. It is unfortunate, however, that, for example, officials working with us here have not been tested — if they have not been tested since this morning — which, in my opinion, is completely incomprehensible. Officials who work with a Member of Parliament in the same small space will be tested, but not, for example, in IT support or elsewhere. Legislative work in this house has not been secured in such a way that they too can test before the start of their working day. I am not going to whip any more of Parliament's own actions here. But it is now the case that Myllykoski visited Satakunta safely to take those vaccines when they were not available here in the capital region through occupational health care, which I find very confusing. We obviously have a few mayors in Helsinki who are former MPs and could probably understand what the importance of legislative work in this country is in a situation of interest rates. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u115	Thank you. — and Mr Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u116	Mr President! First of all, I wanted to tell you that I got something from someone who was smarter than myself to tell KD: all those who come from abroad can now be assigned to a health check, as for tests, on the basis of permanent articles 15 and 16 of the Act on Diseases. So in these respects, I think you might as well support the presentation made by the Finns. Then I would like to thank Mrs Myllykoski for her good speech. It was upbuilding and such understanding talk. I don't want to come into this toilet myself to tell you about something like this, which one can look like a stimulant and the other so that he wants to tell you now how he sees it. However, as a Member of Parliament, I feel that I have a duty and responsibility, and my conscience also tells me to do what I do here in the toilet. It's no easy thing that you're trying to think about the word choices so that someone isn't here. [MikaNiikkoarvo] I myself would like to see those people who have now found this new vaccine or a new-technology vaccine difficult soon receive a vaccine with such old technology that I understand is coming and is, if I remember correctly, made or made by someone named Novax, and yes, I have really tried to find out whether the complaints and the inconveniences I have been told are true. I cannot trust them until I get an answer from THL, but I have not, although I think I have properly asked for them. Then, as I recall, there are two citizens' initiatives against the corona passport. It is as if they have been completely forgotten from the debate. Well, here I have tried to build a speech here, but I must say that it was extremely difficult, because there is so much information and so many different views, and yet here on paper I have written the words of Robert Kennedy Jr., that we must love our freedom more than fear this virus, and I think that we could agree with this, and, as Mrs Myllykoski said, we must respect the opinions of others here. We've been chosen here, and we have different views. I try to bring out the view that I personally feel important and just through my conscience. A clear message has come from among the citizens that they want to return to a normal life after losing their freedom. This is how they, some of them, experience, and I agree with this. I believe that we all have the same goal. We have different solutions for that. And when Mr Gustafsson here is strongly critical of the Finns, I personally feel that this government proposal did not want to take into account the proposal of the Finns of this rapid test, which has been used elsewhere in other countries, in schools and rock festivals, for example. In my opinion, you could have taken better note of it and then separated the two laws which have been included in this amendment: this border control and the corona passport. They should be brought here in isolation, then we would be brought closer to a good outcome through cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u121	Let's try. — and Mr Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u122	Mr President! I was already waving a little yellow book, which I have had as a vaccine passport in that bag for quite a long time, but I asked to speak again. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Myllykoski for her fine speech. Of course, many other good speeches have been used here, but it was somehow well-assessed and constructive, thanks for that. These last two years have been very exceptional and difficult for us in Finland and the wider world. Here I made some Christmas greetings for the Pirkanmaa people, and when I thought about it, I said these things and continued that Finland has always overcome the difficulties of working together, and I think that these challenges will be overcome too. In such a way that we have warmly recommended vaccines and, in general, discussing and providing the right information, both with regard to the effectiveness of the vaccines and the possible adverse effects, on the one hand, the elimination of unnecessary fear and false information, we have achieved a high level of vaccination coverage in Finland in many situations, and I believe that is what is happening today, but underlining that we do not want to be forced into this situation either. Then there has been talk of these rapid tests. Fortunately, they are only a few euros, and it is good to hear today that taxes, VAT, are being brought to zero so that they can be made even cheaper. As I originally hoped from the beginning of 20 C.E., I would like us to have the rapid tests in Finland as a real, easy, quick option. However, they are considerably better and more reliable than what was originally said about them, and then, on the other hand, if that test does not tell us about the virus, does not catch it in our body and yet we still have masks in use, we will keep a little distance, then we will infect something if there is still a virus there, very, very unlikely. In that sense, it is quite convenient and easy to implement, when only in Finland would we really get it for everyone. The reason why I actually wanted to ask for this speech is that I would call for people who are waging disbelief, fear, anxiety and confrontation in that social media. To my amazement this weekend, when these inquiries started to come about the curfew and the closure of Uusimaa and so on, I found a video clip of a professor-level person in which he said that he heard such rumours and appealed to the citizens that everyone would start sending mail to the MPs. By the way, that's what happened. The mailboxes are clogged. I would like us to really be encouraged and tried in a certain way to alleviate the fear and anxiety and not to make such appeals, especially in this case.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u123	Like this. — and Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u124	Mr President! In this use of the corona pass we must now return to the very roots when the government originally brought this to Parliament. In this case the ministers and all the representatives of the government assured here that this corona pass is not a man-limiting measure but this is a means of opening such services, allowing us to continue living in the midst of this pandemic. However, what has happened here may lead to the conclusion that this has actually become very limited to some people and for some people this has become such a privileged tool for accessing the services that all people would like to have access to, whether they have been identified as the holder of such a passport or not. As an example, we can take our own children, if we have them ourselves, or grandchildren. I do not think it is proportionate to do so, as is now the case with the municipalities, that only some children, for example, are allowed to swim in a swimming pool or engage in hobbies that they have done up to now because they have taken this vaccination — that even children, children aged 16 to 17, are required to take a vaccine or are excluded from the activities they love. This is not proportionate. And I would like us to be able to at least agree on such matters of everyday life, that those defects should be rectified. Now that we know that this passport does not assure anyone that the virus cannot spread, it is worth questioning its acceptance here. Mr President! It must also be said that when we know that the government is next bringing to Parliament a proposal to extend the use of the corona passport, we should be concerned here. Interest Passes should be required in any event in force, regardless of restrictions. This is coming before Parliament in January, and unfortunately it is not clear why this is being done. Why do we want to limit people in areas where there is no such restrictive need for action imposed by the avi? I can't understand this at all. This would still be understandable if these proposals were to meet the requirements of necessity and proportionality, but they are not. And I hope that we will find humanity and understanding for the families living there on a daily grass-roots level, that we will not force them to isolate themselves from society with these decisions that are being made in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u125	Like this. — And Mr Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u126	Mr President! I would also like to highlight that statement made by the professor of social ethics in Jaana Hallama this weekend or an interview of this kind, in which she warns that we have fallen ill with the social corona and the need for vaccination would lead to social confrontation. I believe that we should avoid this confrontation and that rapid testing in the organisation of different events would be a better option. Then the vaccinated may also do so, and it could be ensured that by then at least no one has fallen ill with the corona, and that an unvaccinated person could also go there. Hallama says here that after this two-year ordeal ‘short,many things will upset you and if you don’t, you’ll have a nervous surface’. He stresses that forcing vaccine critical individuals to breast cancers increases distrust and divisions in society. The use of force in society is an extreme means, and its price can be the loss of confidence and the deepening of confrontation and the creation of hostilities. Vaccination is interference with human integrity. In many ways, our Constitution protects physical integrity and self-determination. No one has to drive a car or build a house, but it is very difficult to live here without being a member of the community. This should be borne in mind here that as few people as possible should be divided. I believe that the Finnish Constitution is so tough that it should not be broken, and at least I feel that this corona passport violates the Finnish Constitution. Here it says — a few phrases I pick up here: ‘The rule of law protects the freedom and rights of human dignity and individuals and promotes justice in society. “ ‘All public activities are governed by the law Equality is said:‘People are Noone is eligible to set up a differentposition Now, this extension of the corona pass in practice would mean that you will not be able to enter a working farm if you do not have a corona pass. In my opinion, this is a violation of the Constitution. ‘Everyone has a right to life and individual freedom, integrity and security. These measures to extend the corona passport violate the integrity of human beings. ‘The individual’s incompatibility and freedom is not arbitrarinessed. ‘Anyone who is not able to obtain the I'm sure this will come up tomorrow when we discuss the vaccination of nurses. With these provisions, which I have picked from here myself, I also rely on this text which Pauli Rautiainen gave to the Constitutional Committee and wrote in the Constitutional Blog. It has been surprising to me that there has been no stronger reliance on this Constitution, because I feel that this is a violation of our right to act here. According to the Equality Act, too, it seems that this is discrimination, and I do not think that we should legislate against people. Now, to this end, I tried to do this kind of crystallization, which could perhaps serve as some kind of guideline to which we should strive: ‘When our freedom of love is exceeded by fear, then our freedom of feeling’. Thank you — I will conclude with this. I guess there were four speeches, and we'll continue with the next law then.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u127	Great. — Mr Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u133	Like this. — Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u134	Mr President! Mr Räsänen, you spoke in the middle of your mouth, but perhaps it will leave you with the feeling that people who want to act on a voluntary basis will not be taken seriously on the basis of self-determination into their own bodies, who, for example, have experienced adverse effects from the first dose of the vaccine. It is true that there is a great deal of disinformation on these issues, as Mr Tanus mentioned that this person is spreading stories like this that the Defence Forces are going out on the street to check on vaccine passports. This person — I myself ran into this feedback — didn’t even bother to answer when I said that you could check your information before spreading lies about these things. On the contrary, they will remove such comments from their own pages if we try to correct them. This harms sound criticism. Healthy criticisms in a free society must and must be made both by the MP and by the citizen. As a result, I do understand that it would be a good idea to encourage people to take safe action, but I cannot go to anyone to say that you should take a vaccine or not take a vaccine. I'm not saying either. [Daytime Interval] Mr President! However, it would be important for us to be able to speak openly about these issues and not for society to silence the noises of gravel that genuinely want to express their concerns through questions. It only increases preconceptions, increases suspicion of society and decision-makers. In that sense, I would like to say that, as a result, we would not put people who disagree in the hate speech basket. We can never all agree, and that is what we must understand and accept in this society, that we can disagree as much as we want. This is part of our constitutional rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u135	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u136	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Niiko. Right now, I just wanted to say the one sentence that we should not exclude those who ask. They must not become opponents of the system. We have a lot of questions in e-mails — “I’m a concerned citizen ” — but then we’re sorry to have those information providers. This was a very good, constructive speech that those who ask should not be categorized as opponents.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u137	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u138	Madam President! It is as many people here have just said about these things that this confrontation has really been the biggest problem for us at the end of the game, which has been created a little even for this debate itself, because the situation is that we were driving this vaccine passport so hard, and thus even the need for vaccination in certain areas, that is to say, people retreated. I myself know more people who have never really had an anti-vaccination problem at any point, but somehow they have had a taste for it, and I have talked to them, and they think that they are no longer interested in taking the whole vaccine because they have somehow gone out of hand in this layout and are a bit oblivious to it and have brought it up a little bit at first, as if the vaccine were such that after that there is no worry or worry, since it was already known that this would not be the case in the first place. In my opinion, this information has been a little bad in its way, and this has caused a lot of that unnecessary intertwination. Now that these rapid tests have actually come to this side, I would like to see rapid tests loaded and given as an alternative to those who do not want vaccines for one reason or another. It may be pointless for us to argue with those people as to whether or not it makes sense for them not to, because if they have not taken it to this day, it may be a matter of principle for many. However, in order to remove this problem more and get people back in their hands, I would like to see much more rapid testing introduced. Everyone should remember now that not being in their own little bubble, but trying to understand each other. We people are different. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u139	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. — Debate, Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u140	Mr President! The aim of the last tax proposal of the year, prepared with a very fast timetable, is to respond to the current interest rate situation. In the present presentation, home tests for corona treatment are not an alternative to vaccination but a complement to keeping the corona situation under control. The government therefore proposes that the so-called home tests for corona infections should be exempt from VAT. The exemption would apply both to domestic sales and to foreign purchases. The exemption from the sale would entail the right to deduct the tax included in the acquisition. The aim of this proposal is, of course, to encourage the testing of corona infections at a low threshold and to promote fair access to affordable home tests in Finland. It is estimated that home testing will play an increasingly important role in the fight against the corona crisis. This exemption would only apply to medical devices complying with the requirements laid down in Union law, the level of which, fortunately, we know has already developed a great deal over the last two years. I am referring to their reliability. Mr President! Much has been done on the impact of VAT reductions on prices. Although research data show that the discount has not always shifted to full prices, now I dare to assume otherwise. I have made an appeal to the trade sector to assume its own responsibility for combating the interest rate and to transfer the government's income directly to the benefit of consumers. I believe that it is in the broad interest of society that even tests should enable us to keep society open at the latest when this very worst stage has been passed. It is the responsibility of all of us to combat corona as effectively as possible and to minimise social disadvantages. Mr President! Unfortunately, the government is now preparing for these timely decisions, which I have heard in the previous debate from several representatives, and I have to move on to these discussions. That is why I am already saying a few things in addition. I know that there has been a debate among the representatives about whether masks could also be transferred to the same category of non-taxation. I think it has been a well-founded proposal, and it is also well-founded within the government within this short time frame when the proposal was being prepared. However, it would have called for a more extensive study work. The limitation of this proposal to home tests was largely due to the fact that there is still very little use of home tests and I believe that their use and need will become more widespread. Similarly, the image of products has been more expensive and the tax solution has now been able to influence it. After all, the tax rate on these home tests was 24 before this proposal to transfer to zero class. I know that there has been another topic of discussion in this regard. I have had a debate on this with the trade representatives, and I believe that the situation is now relatively good. The situation is relatively good, there is regional variation here, but I believe that this proposal will also make the trade sector react to the fact that from the world to Finland these tests will be obtained as much as possible for consumers. The other thing is whether, as part of the public sector, we will also end up making greater use of these, for example, in schools, as has been done in many control countries. Once again, they are separate decisions, but the government's current strategy for testing and tracing recommends more home testing for workplaces and schools. This proposal is now directly relevant to consumers, and I believe it is clearly one of the first measures of the interest rate period in which tax solutions are directed directly to consumers, and this will also be the message that the ownership of the treatment of the interest rate and the shared responsibility of all of us for each other will be emphasised by means of vaccination, but also by all other means possible. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u141	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u142	Madam President! It is now time to thank the government for this proposal. This is a very good and timely presentation. It is indeed desirable that we also monitor the fact that the exemption from VAT from home tests is passed on to prices as such, so that it is reflected in prices there. In this respect, it is of course a good thing that the Minister has been in contact with traders. Surely they also want to prove themselves worthy now of this trust. Today we have had a lot of discussion about testing and the importance of testing for the management of this corona disease. I think that now that Christmas is approaching and many meet older grandparents, family members at risk, there will certainly be more and more subscriptions for home tests. Although their prices have already fallen in themselves, it is still quite expensive, especially in large families, if, for example, almost daily testing is carried out. But I would like this test procedure to be used more and more to ensure safety in the workplace. In the context of the debate on the so-called compulsory vaccination law for nurses, I would also consider it an option to rely more on this testing than on other coercive measures. In this context, the Minister also touched on the possibility of using more home testing for schoolchildren and keeping schools open. Of course, it would have been interesting to hear from the Minister how this has been thought and intended to be used, but I hope that we will hear about it later.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u143	Congressman Reijonen gone, Congressman Aittakumpu gone. — Mr Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u144	Madam President! I too would have liked to give warm thanks to the Minister for this proposal and, of course, to the government as a whole, because, as we have talked about in the previous paragraph, these rapid tests are easy to carry out and they will come straight to fruition. They have been widely used in the world and we in Finland too, especially in Lapland, have been very successful for a long time. And, of course, the fact that we get that zero alpine stock is a very good thing, and I really hope that the traders will also contribute in such a way that these rapid tests will be as affordable as possible for consumers. Indeed, as mentioned here by the Minister, the possibility of using tests in schools has been considered. Personally, I have heard a lot about the fact that workplaces, such as industry, some large workplaces, have also been made to use them on their own, so that a quick test is carried out on their own at least twice a week. And, as has been mentioned here, the situation of the health care staff and especially those who, for one reason or another, cannot take the vaccine, this could also be an option. And yes, I would see that in a very bad interest rate situation, as is currently the case, and also in the light of the omicronvariant, if we have a unit with very fragile patients, there could be some thinking that while the staff are changing their work clothes, then it would also take a quick test by work, whether it would be twice a week or what. But it is indeed just a short-term measure, and the result will come quickly so that I can see that, when we use health technology in many other areas, these rapid tests should also be considered for wider use in health care. And just as that point has been made, now that we are moving into the holiday season, I hope that many families will be able to use it — as we have done tests here — even at the time when we go to the older relatives, to meet close ones. The Minister has already had to leave, but thank you very much — a very good proposal which I hope everyone will support.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u145	Congressman Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u146	Madam President! It is indeed a pity that the Minister has already left, because, in itself, this proposal, which has now been submitted to us, today in the Committee on Budgets, has already been discussed, must, of course, be welcomed. And while I think the Minister himself well said the problems, that is to say that this research data does not fully reflect the effects of the VAT bill and whether it will be passed directly on to prices, aid itself, we really must hope that, in this case, this will happen better than perhaps in these previous situations, which we have seen in the area of VAT, where this has not happened again. But, Madam President, now that we are talking more extensively about this fight against the corona pandemic and the importance of VAT on it, we in the Committee on Budgets have in fact already gone over the fact that on several occasions in this Chamber we have dealt with, for example, this fixed-term legislation that is currently in force. It has been extended, I think, three or even four times, and it has been a question of exempting these public health service providers from VAT in these situations when it comes to the materials involved in the prevention and testing of this corona pandemic and these procurements and how, accordingly, these private producers have not been able to benefit from this same exemption. I would have liked to ask the Minister again: would it be time, however, to change the interpretation of the law in this regard? But now that we are constantly seeing the need to review this legislation, would it not be reasonable now, as we have already said on the part of the opposition on several occasions, to bring the same zero tax rate on the part of private operators to the same extent, because, in the present situation, there are quite clear problems of neutrality? This can also be seen in the case of the situation that even if a small entrepreneur who provides health care services for elderly people in a municipality does not in practice get or is able to take advantage of this zero tax rate, but then the public side can. After all, it is quite clear, and I still see it, that, when we talk about the widespread need to combat this epidemic, and we are talking about the fact that, in all situations, these private producers must also be able to secure these situations and yet these materials and others must be acquired, this is a rather significant flaw.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u147	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u148	Mr President! I believe that, in principle, this proposal must be supported by everyone to make these tests cheaper. Of course, it comes to the more cynical person that, when regional elections are approaching here and there is such an opening at the end of this year from the Minister of Finance, this would have no bearing on the approach to regional elections, of course it is not. — It is a pity that the Minister is not answering this question. However, although this is to be welcomed, it is not enough. We're back behind the other countries. In many other countries, free tests are being distributed to people, and now we would only have a slight reduction in VAT on these tests. So a little late and a little inadequate, but for the better. The second point is that this EU corona package - the so-called 'corona package' - which we agreed to with the government's involvement in Finland: it just occurred to me that, when I was reading the news about Poland in this one day, where in this economic situation, VAT on fuels — that is, not on fuels but on fuels — and the fuel tax is abolished, which leads to fuel being more than half the cost of fuel than in Finland, it is not just doing this with the corona package, which we, the Finns, are paying for here, for EUR 4 billion of money? So we pay for the other corona packages, and then we make such half-baked solutions ourselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u149	Congressman Kyllönen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u150	Thank you, Madam President. The proposal is very much to be expected and important, and just now, when we went through this whole package of infectious diseases law, these rapid tests played an important role in the management and control of the entire corona. It is therefore essential to jointly ensure that the whole trade sector is involved in this, so that the benefits of this reduction in value added tax will not then be borne by customers at rising other prices in the total cost of these tests. Mr Marttinen raised an important point: there has been a previous dialogue in committee on VAT on these other supplies and protective equipment and on the basis of an assessment of the overall level of equal treatment, and this will certainly continue to be the case — not only for masks, which the Minister mentioned, but also in other respects, among all the actors involved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u151	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u152	Mr President! Indeed, the proposal has been expected in this situation and a very good basis, and I can agree with what previous speakers have said that the previous debate was very broad and multi-generational, but quite a few points came up just now with these rapid tests and their availability. I was in quarantine with him when the neighbor got sick, and it was good to watch it in the morning then and always in the morning — since we in Parliament in general have been asked to do so until this Christmas — to use those rapid tests and get the result from there, so it is always easy to go to work and work. As has been said here, other jobs have used this, and why not extend it to schools too, of course. These rapid tests have not yet been seen in public procurement, but, as is also said in this proposal, there will probably be a wider spread of public procurement. The cost impact of this will be around EUR 3 million, which is estimated, and this law would be in force until the end of 22. This will then come alongside us to the Committee on Finance in January, including the VAT patterns and treatment of these other protective equipment and masks. I share the concern that Mr Marttinen was wondering whether it would then be equal to a private and public actor. After all, the public can always run away the VAT, but the private company may not. This is more a matter of the other legislation we have in January. At this point, as the Minister said, this applies directly to consumers, so that the VAT on these rapid tests can be deducted and reduced. The big question here and, of course, the wish is, as the Minister himself has discussed on the market, that this should come directly to the price and thus reduce these rapid tests and increase their use in this pandemic. So we should now have all the equipment in place to get rid of this plague and control it. [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u153	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u154	Madam President! Indeed, in that Committee on Budgets today, we started to consult this proposal in advance and we will be able to complete it tomorrow, because it is important that this good and necessary proposal from the government should then be put into practice quickly. And just as the Minister said before he had to leave in a hurry, indeed this VAT reduction must go directly to the prices. Otherwise, this operation would be of no similar benefit. I am raising the same concern here, and also a little as a reminder of the government's direction as Mr Marttinen did. We have now dealt with these reduced VAT rates on protective equipment several times. In other words, this EU directive, which has made this possible during this exceptional period of time, has always been extended time and time again and has then been followed by national legislation at the same rate. The question now is that, for some reason, we in Finland have interpreted this very tensely, and that is to say that we have, for example, small home-service companies, which operate through vouchers in the municipalities there, producing these important home-service services for the municipalities, are not now able to benefit from these reduced VAT rates when we talk about these protective equipment. The opposition has raised a joint objection, as I recall, every time this motion has been in the Chamber, and it has always been said that why should this issue not be investigated properly now? I hope now, indeed, as the previous representative, Mr Pirttila, said, that when a new proposal is coming in January, this would now be carefully investigated at the Ministry of Finance. I find it strange that if we have other Member States of the European Union in which this can be applied to such companies, which are closely involved in the production of public services on the basis of different contracts, then why not act in a similar way here in Finland and reduce these VAT rates? However, this VAT is certainly an important part of the margin for such small companies, and in that sense I think it would be good to take it into account in this situation when pricing is made, that for smaller companies the amounts are significant. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u155	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u156	Madam President! Indeed, if the government is to be commended, now is its place. It is quite clear that this is worth it, even if, for some reason, the trade industry would shoot itself in the foot and not understand how important and sensible it is. In any case, even for shoppers, this may well be a hint that this is the kind of insemination product that starts to compete to get people to come there. However, we are actually talking about such a small amount — in the sense of a small amount — that if at the moment it costs around five dollars in the price of the sale and when you get the VAT out of it, it is four euros, and if the shops actually go along with it, then we are actually talking about such non-existent margins, even though it is now a big one, but not so much in euro — that I cannot believe that for this reason it would be worth leaving, however, for a good drag and spoiling its reputation. In any case, when you know how much one normal test costs, you get dozens of these quick tests at the same time. Although we are talking about some sort of cost — I did not see what it was, but the previous speaker here was talking about 3 million — in any case, there will be savings in this by reducing the number of these standard tests, because these rapid tests will be used. Of course, if the rapid test shows positive, then we will go there, but I know very well one case that has now had to go for its own work one ten times already to take the test, and now that these rapid tests have come, there has never been one since. I am sure that society will benefit from this, because this calculated loss is not just what the VAT rebate is given here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u157	Congressman Berg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-12-20-ps-155.u158	Mr President! I would like to join in thanking the government for this good proposal, and this is indeed a welcome proposal. The most important thing is what has actually been said in every speech that this is now moving towards consumer prices. Mr Laakso gave a good speech, and I fully agree with that. With itself, I believe that consumers are hardly going to go out here at least to increase or keep prices at the current level. I also believe that it may be that prices will fall further and these will be used, for example, as a throw-in product, and that it may be possible to get customers to visit and buy other products. I also very much hope that these will be widely used in the future. For example, when taking part in various events, events, it would first be ensured by this rapid test that coronanegativeness, or just when family events are involved, that test would be taken, just to be sure, so that everyone would have security that the disease would not spread. Now, of course, it is not quite Christmas time for Christmas — for example, when the situation of the corona has deteriorated in our own family circle, grandparents, parents, have had some concerns about how Christmas is now, and I myself have argued that it will be much easier to get there when everything is tested before the Christmas table and that is not the way to think about it. This will certainly bring much help to such occasions in the future, and when the price is calculated to the extent that it does not become a cost issue in such situations, this will certainly be a good thing and will increase the use of these rapid tests.
