ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u1	Now I would ask you to concentrate on this sitting and to remain silent during the sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u2	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. I'm opening a conversation. — — — — Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u3	Mr President! I will make sure that the government's proposal 210 was the first one to come up with a number of proposals in the pipeline from the Ministry of Finance. In this government proposal, Parliament, it is proposed to amend Article 44 of the Income Tax Act into a law on the calculation of income from reindeer husbandry. In the future, the annual yield criteria for reindeer husbandry would be laid down by Government decree. The proposed amendment is mainly of a legal nature. Its effects are related to the clarification of legislation and the verification of constitutionality. [First Vice-PresidentAnttiRinne : Minister for the Island, momentary. — I would ask you now to remain silent in the Chamber about this matter. The Minister is speaking. - Here you go. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u6	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u12	Thank you. — Mr Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u18	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Minister Saarikko, please present.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u19	Mr President! Now, a little longer presentation of this government proposal for a law amending Articles 18a and 18b of the Act on the taxation of business income, which proposes to amend the so-called interest relief provisions. The right to deduct interest is limited in the Business Tax Act where they have a net amount of more than EUR 500000 and represent more than 25 % of the business result specified in more detail. The euro-denominated limit is higher in the case of loans outside the group. The restrictions do not apply where the taxpayer demonstrates that the ratio of equity to the balance sheet total is at least equal to the corresponding ratio of the group as a whole. The aim of this proposal is to limit the possibility of transferring income outside Finland's tax jurisdiction by making use of the above-mentioned exemption based on balance sheet comparisons in venture capital and other similar structures. At the same time, however, it must be borne in mind that the limitation of the deductibility of interest rates is in itself an exception. Such a reduction in the right to deduct should not undermine the investment opportunities of Finnish companies or the attracting of capital to Finland. We are therefore balancing between these two objectives. Mr President! The Government proposes that the conditions for the exemption based on balance sheet comparison be tightened. The use of the derogation would be limited in a situation where the group has been financed by a significant holding. In such a situation, the consolidated balance sheet on which the balance sheet comparison is based would be adjusted in such a way that the debt of the owner of the holding would be regarded as equity for the purposes of the balance sheet comparison. A significant shareholding of 10 % would be considered. It is also proposed to include a provision that the financial statements and consolidated financial statements on which the balance sheet comparison is based should be audited. This condition is intended to contribute to ensuring that balance sheet exemption would only be possible in a genuine business group. With regard to long-term public infrastructure projects, the aim of the proposal is not to apply the interest rate restriction rule to so-called public-owned infrastructure companies. This would be considered, for example, to be the property, fairway or other infra-managing company owned by a public body, as well as a joint municipal and well-being group. In addition, provision is proposed for non-utilised net interest expenses not deducted from other sources of income as a result of the elimination of the distribution of income. The proposal relates to the preparation of this year for next year's draft budget for the year 22 and is intended to be dealt with in this context. The Act is intended to enter into force from the beginning of next year and the proposed amendments to the balance sheet comparison exemption would be applied for the first time in the case of taxation from 22 years. The changes in long-term infrastructure projects and the reduction of non-deductible net interest expenditure on the income source of business activities would apply from 20 years onwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u20	Thank you for the introduction. — Mr Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u21	Mr President! This proposal has also come to us in the tax section, and we will now be discussing this in the coming times. In my opinion, this is an important proposal and part of the whole, which the government has now introduced in various legislative proposals, which aims to safeguard the Finnish tax base and, in this case, for example, to prevent multinational companies from transferring their profits to low-tax countries. I believe that these are very important and worthwhile changes. However, it is also wise to exclude from this restriction, for example, public-owned infrastructure projects and such companies, and it is of course necessary to take account of their needs, and this is positive in this proposal. In other words, in a way, this is breaking down certain shortcomings in our legislation and preventing tax base leakage and the possibility of aggressive tax planning being used. I strongly believe in this and other contexts that the Finnish employee, the pensioner, the unemployed person will pay his taxes conscientiously. There is also reason for multinational companies not to avoid taxation so that Finland can receive the tax euros that are due to Finns. But, President-in-Office, there is one important point here which I would like to mention separately, and it is also in the form of a record here in the government proposal, which means that this proposal is not yet complete. This will require a continuation, and it will require a continuation because, for example, this is not yet fully able to tackle the problems that arose, even in the public domain. Let us take the example of this case of Caruna, which avoided in a certain way, or did aggressive tax planning, and then we talked about and publicly discussed the need for this avoidance — as far as possible from our legislation — to be able to intervene. And that part of this is still in preparation, as it were, and in this proposal, the government records that this matter will be clarified and then a solution will be sought and, if possible, it will be followed up on next year's side. President-in-Office of the Council, I think it is necessary that the government should come up with solutions so that this problem can be properly resolved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u22	Thank you. — Mr Salmonikoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u23	Mr President! Preventing international tax evasion and aggressive tax planning is one of the main objectives of this government. Profit transfers through different financial arrangements are one of the most typical tax avoidance methods used by companies. The aim of the amendment of the regulation on the right to deduct interest proposed in this proposal is to limit the possibilities of transferring income outside Finland's tax jurisdiction. The objectives of the proposal are absolutely acceptable. Unfortunately, however, the current proposal is inadequate and, on the basis of the feedback received during the consultation, it does not yet prevent tax avoidance effectively, as Mr Viitanen has just said. According to Finnwatch, who specializes in the social impact of business, for example, in the consultation, they said that the capital structure of the electricity transmission company Caruna, which is guilty of tax avoidance, is such that the present proposal unfortunately does not contain the means to do so. According to the proposal, the government is prepared to submit a further proposal on this subject if the remedies now being put forward prove to be inadequate, and since the amendment of the law has already been estimated to be insufficient to address all these problems, I hope that the preparation of the further proposal will be initiated immediately. At the end of this House, we will probably not be able to correct this with this proposal alone in a way that will respond to this problem of Caruna.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u24	Thank you. — Mr Marttinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u25	Mr President! This proposal, which is now being discussed, has been before Parliament as a whole many times, and now some changes are being proposed by the Government. I would like to say first of all about this balance sheet exemption, which has emerged as a solution to the legislation already in force in 2014 when this first regulation came into force by the Minister of Finance with the background of the SDP, and at that time there was a desire to maintain certain points of flexibility in the legislation, so that Finnish business groups also had a certain degree of flexibility with regard to their own activities. So it was about these situations where the ratio of the company's equity to the balance sheet is higher than the corresponding figures of the corresponding group. This means, among other things, situations where the parent of a group of companies, for example, finances and acquires its financing for subsidiaries. It is quite true what Mr Viitanen has pointed out here that there have also been problems with this regulation, and the Group supports that these problems should be resolved away from there. It is therefore important to abolish these fund structures and the associated possibilities, but at the same time it is also necessary to recognise that there is a clear reason why it was previously laid down in the law and that, therefore, it is necessary to maintain the balance sheet exemption for these domestic groups of companies. Mr. Speaker! Secondly, it is now important to bring regulation on public infrastructure companies into the law. As such, it is totally inadequate in its scope, and I hope that the Minister will continue to work on and clarify it. And thirdly, I would ask the Minister if he is listening: — Yes, thank you, Madam Minister. — My question concerns the situation of Mankala nuclear power. There is now no flexibility in this proposal in relation to these nuclear projects. We know that this regulation has hit these major nuclear investments particularly hard, even though there has been some flexibility in the law in the past, for example, in the fact that older loans have not been regulated. In any case, Parliament has therefore called for a solution to this Mankala nuclear power in its statement, and that solution is still not included in this proposal. So now that this has been prepared for almost three years, my question is to the Minister: what is the cost? Nuclear power is a very essential form of energy production for Finland, and it is important that a solution is found to safeguard nuclear power.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u26	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u27	Mr President! It is excellent that these tax practices of transnational companies can be addressed. After all, this is being deliberately used to reduce the debts of the parent company or, in a way, to transfer from a small company: if the main company is now, for example, in Germany, this kind of gimmick can reduce these taxes paid by the company here in Finland and transfer that money to the country of the head office, in my example to the country of Germany. But what is excellent and important here is that Parliament is up-to-date on these issues, with a hand on the edge of time, and that you react as soon as you need it. What is much more worrying, Mr President, is that today, for example, an U-letter came to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, which is setting up new proposals for environmental taxes or for this carbon neutrality and emissions trading, which are also starting to tax domestic renewable energy with absolutely shocking amounts. In practice, it means that such a small nation will fall to its knees. This would lead to an increase in the price of fuel — no one has yet made an estimate, but I bet that the class is about 40 cents per litre — and will lead to it, for example, from the point of view of our forestry industry and energy production in this country in general, that this country will fall to its knees. This cannot be the case if the European Union, which has no tax policy at all, does not have the right to tax us, but apparently does. When I spoke hard about this recovery package last spring and said that this was disastrous for Finland, I was laughed at back then — and apparently a little wild boy was considered me, someone might even be right — but the message behind all that was that now the European Union is coming to the full Finnish tax flower, for sure. This is what I warned you about last spring, and now it's coming to fruition. If this happens, if it is allowed to happen in this house, it will lead to a huge increase in income disparities in this country and the rural population suffering, and those who have money will have even less money after this reform. So we're gonna have to wake up now. This government proposal, which is now under discussion, is absolutely excellent, and that is what must be done. Indeed, taxation is a national policy. Similarly, social policy is a national policy, but now it seems that the European Commission is pushing its hands into every purse and wants to play host in every country. This is the kind of development we need to put a stop to in this country. If one day we want to stop this, that moment is now.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u28	Thank you. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u29	Mr President! Tax matters are on the table, and it must always be remembered that when we are involved in this EU, the EU itself circumvents that tax by more than 800 billion a year. And what are we going to do about this? This is a very serious matter, because Italy, Germany, France, Spain, Poland, what these things are, in a way, the winners in these countries, and Finland will then remain like silver pretty much in them. These future taxes on Finland have just been raised here. It would certainly be desirable for the centre to listen to the reasoning of the experienced representative, Mr Hoskosen, in these tax matters and to take a negative view of such wonderful proposals from the EU, which will result in all kinds of taxes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u30	Thank you. — Minister Saarikko, 3 minutes of answers, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u31	Mr President! There are a couple of things I would like to comment on. Firstly, on this follow-up and on the assessment of whether this proposal is effective enough, which was referred to by Mr Viitanen as a result of the section. This is also stated in the Government’s proposal, in fact word for word: ‘The government will assess whether the abovementioned measures are sufficiently effective to prevent the transfer of income outside the Finnish fiscal power in situations where anexemption based on the balance of interest limits may be The Government is prepared to submit a further proposal if the measures now being presented do not prove to be sufficiently effective.” So now we are going to see if the proposal is effective in securing Finland's tax base, and then we are going to assess whether there is a need to submit a new one. It is good to remember that while the unwanted tax planning is being eradicated, there is, of course, a need to take care of competitiveness and the tax environment that encourages business and investment and promotes establishment in Finland. The tax authorities are balancing with these, and I am sure that you will also have the same debate within the committee. Well, then, on this matter of Mankala raised by Mr Marttinen: It is still being studied in good cooperation with the industry, and solving it has proved to be a real challenge. We want to find a solution that meets the requirements of the industry here, and so we have heard the conditions of the industry quite carefully to move forward. It has taken time, perhaps more than expected, and it is not worth concluding the debate with the Commission with a model that does not stand up to the state aid review. In other words, an important point and a very difficult point, and I can tell you the solution, but that is not yet the case here.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u32	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes is set aside for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Minister Saarikko, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u33	Thank you, Mr President. In this proposal, Parliament is proposed to amend the legislation on energy taxation in order to support the electrification of industry and the recycling industry. The aim of these changes is to contribute to a predictable and competitive environment and to encourage so-called green investments. I believe that such measures are essential and effective in combating climate change. Mr President! The Government therefore proposes that electricity used for district heating or cooling networks in heat generating heat pumps and electric boilers should be transferred to the lower electricity tax category two. The lower electricity tax category would also include heat pumps outside the district heating network with a total power of at least 0,5 MW. At the same time, the taxation of combined heat and power production would be amended so that the heat produced by heat pumps would not increase the taxation of heating fuels used for cogeneration. The circuit of the power-class II data-rooms would be expanded so that smaller data-rooms would also be entitled to purchase electricity by means of a second-class electricity tax. However, additional conditions would be laid down for the machinery rooms based on their server power, the use of surplus heat and energy efficiency. In the current tax advantage, more than five megawatts of power stations would still be allowed to use electricity taxed under category II of electricity tax without additional requirements. The definition of industry would be broadened to allow the production and processing of industrial recycled materials to benefit from energy tax subsidies. The electricity used in the manufacturing and processing of industrial recycled materials would therefore be transferred to the lower electricity tax category II. Mr President! In turn, biogas would be subject to excise duty in transport use, which, like other energy products taxed, would consist of a tax on energy content and carbon dioxide and a security of supply charge based on the properties of biogas. Why is this being done, even though the government’s policy in many ways is positive for biogas? This is because the proposal relates to the inclusion of biogas in the transport distribution obligation from the beginning of next year. By extending the distribution obligation to biogas used in transport, it requires that it be taxed in accordance with EU State aid rules. Sustainable biogas would in practice be free of CO2 tax, which would result in its tax level being less than half that of natural gas. The use of biogas for heating and working machinery would remain tax-free — that is what I would like to emphasise. Similarly, small biogas production will continue to be tax-free. There would be uniform procedures for the taxation of biogas and natural gas, which would largely be in line with the general principles of excise duty. Mr President! It is proposed that professional aquaculture be included in the refund of the energy tax on agriculture. The reduction in the tax on electricity would be carried out by refunding an amount corresponding to the difference between categories I to II of electricity taxes on an annual basis. This proposal is also fully linked to the draft budget for next year and is intended to be discussed in connection with it. These tax laws would enter into force on 1.1.22. However, the change in the electricity tax category used in heat pumps, electric boilers and circulatory pumps of a geothermal heating plant would take effect at the time when the necessary EU approvals for such tax subsidies have been obtained by a Government decree. In other words, Mr President, a diverse set of tax changes, the common strong denominator of which, however, is to support responsible energy use and the green transition, thereby also making our industry and other businesses more cost-competitive, even when choices are successful and necessary in the fight against climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u34	Thank you for the introduction. — Mr Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u35	Mr President! The Minister has already, in some detail, taken out these details, all of which this contains. It is certainly the case that, as the Minister has said, this content is quite diverse and requires quite a lot of such technical knowledge, perhaps even. In this context, I am not even able to judge all the content any further, and I am very interested to hear the experts here. But the big principle here, which is perhaps the most important from the point of view of the laymen, is to understand that this is a very positive whole in that it serves precisely Finland's ability to achieve its climate objectives and to encourage and increase the importance of environmentally friendly alternative forms of heating. And in that way I see that, although this is diverse and challenging and I am sure it will take some time in the section to get to grips with this, I consider this to be a very positive proposal precisely because of its objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u36	Thank you. — Mr Suomela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u37	Mr President! This is indeed a very varied proposal, which the Minister has very well presented. I will not go into all the details, but it would be important for taxation to encourage a fair transition towards a fossil-free Finland and to build tax incentives where low-emission activities are always more profitable than polluting operating models. Well, it is easier said than done in accordance with this principle, because of course tax legislation should be precise but, on the other hand, as technologically neutral as possible. At the same time, it must be possible to take account of this specificity, but on the one hand to encourage and enable innovation to emerge and become more widespread. This is where Finnish companies have the opportunity to be truly pioneers. We know that there is an increasing demand for sustainable solutions around Europe, around the world. In this energy sector, an increase in prices for other reasons alone, such as the development of the world market, will further encourage more sustainable solutions. It is therefore particularly important that Finnish companies meet these challenges. This, of course, is where the best possible domestic tax system and regulation are essential if we are to be able to deliver ideas here, to provide examples that can then be used to promote international exports. It is quite different to go out and sell an idea than to sell a solution that is already in use somewhere. I would therefore like to point out that, in particular, it is important to take account of the new technologies in this area, in order to make use of the waste heat from the power stations. We also have companies in Pirkanmaa that collect the excess capacity sometimes generated by renewable electricity production and generate heat from this electricity and store heat in the sand. So an innovation has been made in the fact that it is better to store heat in any other material than, for example, in a liquid. Then it will be interesting to see how taxation will deal with such innovations in the future: will such new inventions be encouraged, or are these ideas still so new that challenges arise when they are taken into account? It is a pleasure to be able to get into this together in the Tax Division.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u38	Thank you. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u39	Mr President! In Finland, taxation is known to be high, both energy taxation and many other taxes, and as far as these emissions are concerned, it must of course always be thought that the increase in taxes alone will never reduce them in itself, but will have to look at the whole. The increase in taxes does not guarantee that emissions will decrease, but needs to be addressed. If taxes are raised in Finland, it will certainly not reduce emissions in Poland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u40	Thank you. — Ledamot Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u44	Thank you. — Mr Marttinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u45	Mr. Speaker! Perhaps less often the government and the minister have received praise from this opposition side, but when there is cause for it, it is also worth thanking, so I should like to thank Minister Saarikko for the fact that this proposal also includes amendments to the legislation on the recycling industry. In this past year — and I can no longer remember which government to present — this may have been a leak in the legislation, and it turned out that in some cases a company that uses recycled material, for example in production, may have been subject to the electricity tax rate number one and could not have been included in the lower category of industrial electricity tax. Well, we now see that the solution in this proposal has been to seek a model in which, by using this industry classification of Statistics Finland, it has been possible to extend the group of companies that can enter the second category of electricity taxes, and this is something that we can warmly support from our side. It has been wonderful that we have been able to take this forward in cooperation with the government, and in this respect thank you to Minister Saarikko for the fact that this has quickly become a part of this whole, because I know that this is for the industry, for the recycling industry, a very big question and was a clear issue of this kind of non-neutrality also in that field. It is important that it can now be fixed together, fixed. And I also look forward, as colleagues have said before, to this law being dealt with in the tax section with great enthusiasm and enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u46	Thank you. — Mr Koskinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u47	Mr President! As colleagues have shown above, this is a large number of fine-tuning measures for energy taxation, which can support the use of renewable energy resources and target electricity tax relief for activities that help profitably to use renewable raw materials. For example, this treatment of data centres is well-founded both for environmental and business economic reasons. An interesting figure is that of biogas: firstly, it has had to impose that distribution obligation, but then, when it is stated that the State aid rules prevent tax-free treatment there, this proposal then seeks out the ways in which the use of biogas would be subject to excise duty, which would in practice be half duty-free for the share of CO2. The tax level would be about half of the gas tax. Hopefully this will be enough to promote the use of biogas, while the use of heating and working machinery will remain completely tax-free. But towards the future, Finland should, of course, have a more robust programme. After all, the government has made a biogas programme and so forth in accordance with the Government Programme, but in our circumstances, when there is a great deal of potential to produce biogas, how can it be made available in a country with long distances for the best possible use of transport rather than, for example, expensive new heavy-duty electricity networks or the like. Here is the exact place for Finland to be able to take advantage of such renewable energy raw materials, which are typical of Finland, that they are not paid for vain and that at the same time they are able to operate economically but also in a way that preserves the environment permanently.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u48	Thank you. — Representative Berg, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u49	Mr President! The storage of heat and electricity will be increasingly important in the future in order to compensate for demand for electricity and heat and also market price fluctuations. For this reason, it is very important that electricity is now transferred to the lower electricity tax category, which is used for district heating and cooling networks in heat-producing heat pumps and especially in electric boilers. Like Mr Strand, I would also like to thank the government in particular for including electric boilers in this proposal. I also support the idea raised here by Mrs Suomela that it would be important in the future to develop legislation in such a way that it would also take account of possible new innovations in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u50	Thank you. — Mr Pierainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u51	Mr President! We are talking about a very important issue, about energy taxation and, above all, about how biogas could also be used for self-production, about self-produced biogas for transport purposes. This is a very important issue when it comes to reducing emissions and also how biogas can be produced in rural areas. So, of course, this taxation must now be done in such a way that it does not now penalise those biogas producers and users, that it will then also bring benefits and that it will then be possible to drive 'long-haul' with biogas. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u52	Thank you. — Mr Vähämäki, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u53	Honorable Speaker! Yes, indeed, biogas is a big part of this performance, and of course it should not be underestimated. It is a very complex entity, but it is also complex in the case of data centres, Section 2a,paragraphs 6b and 6b,as a result of the calculation of the efficiency figures for machine rooms. And then there is a new Article 4a, which then applies the above-mentioned efficiency figures to smaller and slightly larger machine rooms. I was just wondering that there must be a great deal of care in analysing and processing these articles and, in particular, in not treating these small machine rooms substantially worse than the bigger ones. Yes, I suppose we want new data centers to be created in Finland in the future and the processing of data here in Finland will be strengthened. However, it creates jobs in Finland and increases its data economy. But I think we will deal with this quite carefully in committee and also in the section under the authority of the section president, Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u54	Thank you. — And so the debate is over and the matter is being sent... - Minister, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u58	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Minister Saarikko, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u59	Thank you, Mr President. For the purposes of this proposal, it is proposed to amend Articles 12 and 12f of the Tax Accounts Act, Articles 124 and 124b of the Income Tax Act and Article 32c of the Tax Procedure Act to amend the distribution rates and the provisionally applicable allocation rate for tax years 22 to 27 of the group of tax recipients. At the same time, the provisions on the allocation of corporation tax for tax years 2023 to 2027 which enter into force from the beginning of 23 of the Act amending the Tax Accounting Act and the Act amending the Income Tax Act would be repealed. Changes in the distribution shares would compensate municipalities for changes in tax income resulting from changes in the tax base for corporate taxation. Mr President! As a second non-related matter, the Board of Directors proposes to make the tax increase provision of the equity savings account more reasonable. This tax increase would not be imposed where the taxpayer has had several equity savings accounts but assets in only one account during the tax year due to a manifest error. For example, there has been a good, well-founded public debate on these blunders. In these circumstances, no tax advantage from more than one account could have arisen and it is reasonable that no tax increase should then be imposed. This seems to me to be a so-called common sense, a good technical correction to a matter that has gained great popularity among the citizens, and I personally believe it is justified that we are constantly trying to develop this stock savings account into a more efficient and supportive form of saving and investing the people. In other cases, such an increase could, for a specific reason, be omitted or reduced in relation to this same subject matter. This package also relates to the draft budget for 22 years and is intended to be dealt with in connection with it. The amendment to the Tax Accounts Act and the Tax Year 22 provisions and the Tax Procedure Act are due to enter into force from the beginning of next year, and in other respects the entry into force will be from the beginning of 23. The law amending the Tax Procedure Act would apply for the first time in the course of the year 21.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u60	Thank you for the introduction. — Mr Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u61	Mr President! A very good presentation in this case too. Of course, these compensations for changes in tax bases for municipalities are important, but above all in this context, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to this second point, which is that I too believe that the use of common sense is permissible, possible and, in most cases, desirable. In fact, I myself drew attention to this peculiarity of a stock savings account in that a very ordinary person who may have decided to try this may now have been in a couple of hundred cases so that inadvertently, uncertainly, without the intention of misusing the system. One account has been opened first that is not used, and then another that is used, but then it has resulted that when the two accounts are open, even though the other is not net and is not used, suddenly a tax increase of about 7300 has come from the tax authority. You can imagine that doesn't make any sense. I also drew attention to this when there were these cases and this public debate began, and I asked a few questions about it, and that was then the case that, fortunately, to those who were now subject to this tax increase, the tax agent soon announced that they could moderate this issue on the application. But with this in mind, it is now a matter of getting to the level of the law that the taxpayer is not obliged to impose this tax increase, but if such a mistake is obvious and it is not a question of a person wanting to abuse this or even try to do so, then even under this provision one could not prescribe a tax increase. I think that this is a fine and important change in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u62	Thank you. — Mr Marttinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u63	Mr. Speaker! Indeed, the board is now considering a proposal to moderate tax increases related to the equity savings account in situations where more than one account has been opened at the same time. Mr. Speaker! This is in itself a step in the right direction, and I am certainly in favour of this, but yes, Minister, the only correct, coherent solution in this situation would have been for you to bring to Parliament a proposal which would have completely dismantled the regulation of the cap on deposits and the number of accounts, because the equity savings account is the only investment product in this country for which there are legal restrictions of this kind which are not in any other investment product. In other words, a very wealthy investor can invest his or her assets without restrictions, but if a small investor wants to invest for retirement on a long-term basis, his or her investment in this equity savings account is limited by law. After all, the stock savings account has become a hugely popular investment vehicle. More than 230,000 accounts have been opened and more than EUR 1.3 billion are in the accounts. So we see that Finns are enthusiastic about investing and saving. That is what we should be encouraging and supporting in this Chamber, not restricting it or putting obstacles in it. In your speeches, Minister, you have, at least in the past, spoken enthusiastically, for example, in favour of raising the deposit ceiling, so I ask you: where are the actions now?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u66	Thank you. — Mr Vähämäki, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u67	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I myself have come to the conclusion that the ceiling on the equity savings account should be raised, and if we look at 2020, the saving rate for households was 5.7 — it was incredibly hard considering that it is usually at 0.5 levels, sometimes even negative. If we go to the Solow and Swan GDP model of Nobelists, then the only possible way to increase the productivity of the national economy, including GDP, is that we invest, that we make RD investments, which increases productivity, which then jumps to the new level of GDP in the national economy, and surprise, surprise, in the formula from which Nobel has been obtained, the saving rate is a key element, actually the only elements besides what I have listed. So in other words, the saving rate in society leads to that income, savings being invested somewhere in some investment product in some time period, and now it has happened so happily that households have saved and invested — possibly or somehow through a stock savings account — in shares. We've had a lot of listings this year. In this respect, national capitalism has grown considerably over the last few years, and I would argue that one way to raise our GDP could be to encourage households to save and invest. And what might be easier than this raising of the equity savings account — although at this stage I would say that there are a considerable number of savers and investors who are not affected by this stock savings account, they can usually save and invest through other ordinary stock accounts. But this is the point that this government proposal makes up for: I strongly believe that this is the right, good line.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u68	Thank you. — Minister Saarikko, minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u69	Mr President! The discussion now culminated in this last presentation in this share savings account. Mr Marttinen, you will remember that it was the Orpo of your own party, the Finance Minister, during which this proposal was made in good cooperation with the centre, and then it was your minister, during which the roof was also made. But I have considered it quite justified to discuss it — now that we have seen how this stock savings account has gained popularity and also a great deal of savings and wealth — and I think that developing it would be a worthy idea. However, no such decision has been taken within the government. Above all, because — and that is why this proposal is now just a single technical matter in this context — there should be no further confusion among those with a stock savings account who have had such a mistake that more than one account has been opened. This had to be rectified quickly and, as it were, a larger political debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u70	Congressman Marttinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u71	Mr. Speaker! In short, I would also like to refer to the parliamentary minutes for this reply to the Minister. Minister, I am well aware of these backgrounds of the equity savings account and the process of creating an account at the time, but I would also say that when the matter was negotiated, the Coalition Party as the Finance Party supported a model in which no such artificial marginal conditions are set for the equity savings account. In order to find a compromise then with the centre and the blue in the government, a compromise was reached in which such artificial restrictions were created in the law — in order to obtain a model at all, an account which also includes the possibility of leaving dividends on the account and postponing their payment of taxes, so that this interest-rate phenomenon was created for small investors, so that it could be achieved, then we moved on. Now that we see how popular this account has become, it is quite clear that we would be justified in lifting these artificial limitations that were then created in the law. I hope that the government and the Minister will now seriously consider making other changes that are greater than just this small change in taxation that has been taking place here. But as the Minister knows and the undersigned also knows for himself what these backgrounds have been, I think it is important and good to look forward together to how this hall, the government and the opposition together could now make changes that make the account even more attractive in a lasting way, so that we can look forward to more strongly supporting the saving and investment of Finns. In my view, these artificial constraints on both the ceiling and the regulation of the number of accounts would be fully justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u72	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Presentation, Minister Kurvinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u73	Mr President! In politics there is sometimes such a joke or an inside thing that you're on an election program or a show for the good, against all the bad. Although this is a bit of a sarcastic joke, so I feel a little bit like myself now when I present this amendment of the Student Aid Act to the board proposal, because I dare to judge — of course a little nervous conversation, a lot of requests to speak, which is great — that this is such a positive thing for which it is easy to find really broad support. It is, therefore, a question of raising the income limits of student student aid. President! According to this proposal, the income thresholds for students affected by student aid will be increased by a quarter, i.e. 25% for the year 2022, i.e. this is linked to the Government's draft budget. This is a so-called budget law. A fixed-term increase in income limits will improve the opportunities for students to work more alongside studies. Also to be taken into consideration is that there will be no tightening of credit requirements, i.e. this is a genuine relief and a genuine hand-out for students. With the proposal, the usual nine-month-a-year-old student increasing student financial aid will be able to earn around EUR 3000 more in 2022. I think it's pretty significant. President! I have received a lot of feedback from students who have had to return student support because of excessive work. They are hardworking people who have studied the pace and worked at the same time, and then came the famous Kela letter. It's been less than ten years since I graduated from college, and I once paid back with bitter increases when a little too much came in at the time, and it was pretty annoying and pissed off, and I thought a little uglier about it. I myself was able to pay, and probably most of the students have been able to pay off the financial aid that was recovered in moderation, but in certain circumstances the recovery may even have made it difficult for the students to live and their social status. Mr President! I think it is extremely important for society and politics to be encouraged to work hard and for all political decisions to be encouraged to work, to act, to take responsibility for their own lives, and in that sense this proposal also fits into this dignity framework. Adequate income limits are the wishes of students, including the wishes of student lobbyists and, in my opinion, the interests of society. Raising the income limits of student support gives students better opportunities to improve their own income by working. I therefore believe that the solution is primarily a student-friendly and social solution. However, President-in-Office, in the alternative, this amendment to the Student Aid Act, the increase in income limits is an employment measure. Finland is currently experiencing a shortage of labour due to a strong upswing. By increasing the income thresholds for students, we are rapidly increasing the supply of labour, because we know that students are typical of seasonal labour, part-time workers in a wide variety of sectors. However, I would also like to point out, President, that during this parliamentary term the Red Mule Government has taken care of other student benefits as well. During this parliamentary term, the Red Mult Government has returned index increases to student support and has made a significant hand-out for students in the most difficult situation, i.e. for family students. They have received an increase of EUR 25 also during this parliamentary term. One can say that this government has taken good care of a better tomorrow for students. Mr. Speaker! This proposal to increase the income limits for student grants is for a fixed period of one year. However, I would like to make it clear to the Members of Parliament that my wish is that this should become a permanent increase, and as a minister in charge, I personally have the capacity to make it permanent if necessary, if that is the case in the follow-up process. It is important to monitor the fiscal impact of this increase in income limits. The latest estimates indicate that in all situations this would have a positive positive net impact on central government finances, i.e. this would bring more money to the treasury than it would take. It is important for us to monitor the effects of this, and if, according to official estimates, the effects are positive for central government finances, then I am at least prepared to take this through on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u74	Like this. — and Mr Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u75	Mr President! Thank you very much to Mr Kurvise for this very important proposal. The Finnish student support system is one of the best in the world. For its part, it makes it possible for everyone on the school path to move as far as the fervor and enthusiasm are sufficient, regardless of background or wealth. This opportunity has brought Finland to the happiest countries in the world. Higher education and versatile knowledge are the foundation of our country's success and prosperity in the future. New jobs will be created in areas where higher education is needed. Work is changing, continuous learning is needed. Study support must be kept in touch with development. Education and civilization carry. This government has previously increased support for family students and returned index increases to student support. One of the weaknesses of the student support system has been that the student has not been able to make much money without losing his or her student financial aid. This is a problem that will now be resolved on an experimental basis next year, thank you for that. The income limits affecting student student financial support will rise by as much as 25 per cent next year. The change is truly significant. A full-time student of nine months can make 3,000 euros more next year. The annual income ceiling rises from the current level of just over 12,000 to just over 15,000. This will facilitate the financial situation of many students when you can supplement student support with paid income. Our task is to encourage young people to work and to work hard, as the Minister said earlier. The reform has been suspected of extending study periods. I believe that the credit for a student loan — when the student graduates within the deadline — will help in this crucial way. According to the Finnish Student Alliance, the responsibility for monitoring the annual income limits must lie with the student himself. Work should not be punished. The work and diligence of students should not be seen as a bad thing. The students therefore suggest that the income thresholds should be raised more fairly. Students believe that income thresholds should not lag behind the general level of earnings. Working must always be a genuinely worthwhile option for the student. Mr President! I also see this reform from the point of view of learning. When students get to work alongside their studies, their learning deepens. Knowledge is connected to practice and experience. Learning becomes adaptable. At the same time, you will learn the knowledge and skills needed in working life. After such versatile learning, the student is more ready for working life. The increase in student support has many good effects. It will help as one of the quickest ways to cope with a shortage of experts in many fields. The shortage of factors in many companies is becoming an obstacle to growth in different parts of Finland. The reform will contribute to increasing employment in our country. Companies receive good substitutes and seasonal workers from students. The student gets a foot in the door and gets more employment after graduation. Overall, the reform will increase the income of students. It brings more students into the study grant. Repayments are also made more flexible. According to the most recent estimates made by officials, raising the income limits will ultimately have a positive impact on public finances. It is therefore worth raising the income limits permanently in the future. That is also what all the commentators are hoping for. If the deadline expires in 2023, then it must be made sufficiently clear that it will not come as a surprise to the students. All in all, this timely good reform deserves to be communicated with sufficient clarity. I ask Minister Kurvis: when you strongly believe in the positive results of the experiment, have you started to prepare for a permanent increase in the income limits for student aid?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u76	Like this. — Mr Kinnuse's speech is obviously so upsetting that we will begin a round of replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u77	Thank you, Mr President. The President quite correctly interpreted that, in Mr Kinnuse's speech, this last point was exactly what made the speeches. Just as the Minister said, this is certainly a good start, it is certainly necessary to increase these income limits, including in terms of employment, but the question is whether it is possible for this to become permanent, or whether it is possible, for example, to have an alternative which has also been suggested, so that in some way these income limits can be phased out as credits accumulate. The idea here is to encourage the transition to work and to get a foot between the door and the door to work in this way too. Of course, the fact that this 25%, EUR 3000, is a lot of an increase, but, for example, the KD, in its own option, believes that it can be increased by another 25, i.e. by 50%. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u78	And Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u79	Mr President, Mr Kurvinen! First of all, when I read this motion, it was a positive idea that the great thing is that we are now raising this income threshold in relation to student aid. What I was wondering about is, of course, why it has not been made straight away permanent, but this has now been done for a year with this kind of separate solution. It would always be easier to legislate on a permanent basis because it produces less bureaucratic and administrative work. What I am a little surprised about was that, while these articles were being revised, this section 6 of the Student Aid Act was not affected, which relates to short apprenticeship periods for vocational students, which are currently not covered by the Student Aid Act. These involve a great deal of recovery and bureaucracy and oblivion, and they should certainly, as well as other university students, be included in the internal income threshold.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u80	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u81	Mr President! Yes, this bill is real honey for many students. Honey is made by the fact that the income of students is known to be high, and now it is possible to hold it. Honey is also made by the fact that the work experience gained in addition to studies is like money for the bank and also a CV for later job search. The Minister is now doing what the student organisations have long hoped for. All it took was enough courage and understanding of the situation — good, good. Many students and many companies welcome this performance with joy. Why not — students need the opportunity to capture their livelihoods, while businesses need young workers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u82	Thank you. — and Mr Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u83	Mr President! It is very important that the limit on the free income from study aid is raised, but I am asking here why only temporary and why so little is happening. The Federation of Finnish Student Unions and the Coalition Party Students, a thousand of them have delivered a strong message: why do they still want to punish students in this way? You can get student support if you study enough. Why, then, would we prevent students from building up the treasury, balancing public finances, acquiring more experience and money? That's what this low income has been holding back. And when there has been a very strong consensus here, when there has been a debate in the corridors, it has been that only this fixed-term law should be made permanent, what do you think: is the government prepared to meet this? I would also like you to tell me who in the government was opposed to this being made permanent, because when this is a fixed-term — I myself am an old student director — it might
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u84	Och ledamot Kvarnström.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u85	Ärade talman, Mr President! Thank you to the Minister and the Government for this excellent proposal. The increase in the income threshold for student aid is quite justified. This facilitates the situation of many students and is an effective means of improving their livelihoods. The income threshold is now being temporarily and moderately increased. If the subsequent assessment shows that the effects of the change have been positive, then we should consider making the change permanent and possibly try to raise the income threshold even higher. It should be borne in mind that many students have a family to support and therefore have to work alongside or from time to time during the year. If they receive credits, they should be eligible for student aid if their other income is not really high.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u86	Mr President! Personally, I would have been very much in favour of being permanent, but since we do not have an estimate of how a corresponding increase in the income threshold will affect the progress of studies, a temporary experiment will certainly also be a possibility, and after the trial period, an assessment of these effects will then be of paramount importance. We do not want to see longer study hours when more work can be done without losing subsidies. At the moment, students have three months more in use than the target period of studies. One possibility would be to remove the extra months, i.e. to prevent the slowing of studies, the monthly credit requirement would be tightened so that the grant months would be sufficient for completion in the target period.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u87	Congressman Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u88	Mr President! The Government's proposal to increase the income limits of student support by 25% is important in many ways. It will increase employment and contribute to the labour shortages experienced by many sectors. The services sector is one sector suffering from labour shortages, but I would also like to highlight the shortage of labour in the social and health sector. A full-time student receiving student financial aid will be able to make some EUR 3000 more in the next year — a significant amount. The possibility of working more and more is of mutual benefit in the field of social services. The social welfare sector receives more labour and, on the other hand, the student gets more valuable work experience. This is true in other areas too, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u89	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u90	Mr President! It is great that income limits are raised closer to the Nordic level; we have fallen behind the other Nordic countries by 50%. I also support the Minister's proposal that the increase in income limits should be permanent. However, the income of disadvantaged students can only be improved by means of investments in student grants. It should also be borne in mind that not all areas of study have the same job opportunities. Index increases were a good start here, but not enough. The most significant stress factor for students is income, and measures to improve income would therefore also be welcome in addition to this very positive proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u91	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u92	Honorable Mr. Speaker! Yes, I should like to thank Minister Kurvi for his firm presentation and good government proposal on the amendment of the Student Aid Act. This increase in income limits will come at the right time. Even in high school and college of applied sciences, a driving milk truck came in itself, and it did not seem right to have to pay those student aids back from that milk account when hard work did its own work and then have to pay them back. I would like to thank Mr Kurvi for this bold proposal, but the Minister has the courage to do so. Last week, he questioned the concentration of this higher education and immediately heard lax comments about the fact that in Finland, in terms of excellence, this is the wrong model, that there is a decentralised network of higher education. I must thank the Minister for pointing out that the decentralised network of higher education institutions is:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u93	And Mr Kinnunen and then Mr Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u94	Mr President! Thank you for this good debate. This has been interesting and helps measure whether we see a glass half full or empty. As decision-makers, we must balance these income limits and the reasonableness of study periods. I did not quite understand Mr Sarkomaa's idea that this is about punishing students. This is a great step, a good experiment. Sometimes it is good to try before making permanent legislation. I'm in favour of a permanent withdrawal myself. I'm glad we're heading towards the Nordic level.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u95	Like this. — And since the name of Mr Sarkomaa was mentioned, he will be allowed to answer before Mr Kurvis.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u96	Thank you, Speaker! Indeed, I said that the fact that we have kept the income limits for student support at such a low level has penalised students for their hard work and work. And this increase, which is now 25 per cent, is quite moderate when you look at what the students have put forward. My question is: why do we continue to punish students by not giving them what they want?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u97	And now, Minister Kurvinen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u98	Mr President! Thank you for a very good debate. I will try to answer questions and perhaps comment a little more on this theme. Here I think it is exactly as Mr Kinnunen said that it is worth seeing whether the glass is half empty or half full. One step at a time, and this is a bit like this cyclical solution. Let's just say that I think there are a lot of winners here. This will win the students, their opportunities and their livelihoods, and this will also make it easier for us to have a labour shortage — hopefully even in the service sector, for example. And then we will have evidence and information and data on how this affects and whether the effects on the state economy are positive. Somehow I don't really believe in that slow-down in college personally. I see that often an active, well-being student takes the studies forward, and when we have job opportunities and high-quality, good, fine degrees, then the studies also go ahead. This step-by-step model, as it were, raised by Mrs Essayah, is interesting. After all, we have the Student Support Act which has been amended a little all the time, always a little in line with the political situation, and, of course, there is a point where we might need to consider a broader overall reform. As far as income limits are concerned, a positive decision was made in the last parliamentary term to humanise this percentage increase in recovery. It was a very good solution and certainly such a fair solution. A number of Members, Mr Kinnunen, asked if they were prepared for a permanent increase. At the Ministry of Education and Culture, we are prepared to make this permanent as soon as such an agreement is reached. And I will just say to this political debate that I have humbly implemented all the government agreements and common lines and played with the chips that I have been handed over.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u99	Like this. — And there still seems to be a willingness to debat. — Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u100	Mr President! Thank you very much for your reply. After all, we have the only group of people who are being punished for hard work. With this increase in the free income limits, we in the assembly are in favour of a more vigorous increase to 50% and also of a permanent increase. And when, Minister Kurvinen, you pointed out that you too are in favour of this permanent model, I ask you who is opposed to it. Are the Social Democrats against it? Is this going to get caught by the Prime Minister's Party, or is it going to get caught by not being able to make this permanent? Even with this more modest model, the impact on employment would be better if young people knew that this would be more permanent. So is it now up to the demars that this will not be achieved? You may also ask whether such limits on free income are needed at all, or whether it could be sufficient for studies to progress on the agreed schedule and then receive that study allowance. I think it could very well be a future in which hard work would also be a virtue for students.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u101	Congressman Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u102	Mr President! Yes, I would also like to thank Minister Kurvise for bringing this bill and for having the opportunity to make a few thousand euros more than before. I think it's important. Good speeches have been made here for reasons why this is important. I'm not going to repeat them. However, while listening to this debate, one must be surprised that the assembly is saying here that this is not a sufficient measure and that it would be as if it were a criticism when this is a step in the right direction and a considerable step forward, for example, in the previous period, where students were cut off, which was not able to give relief to students' livelihoods. Personally, I have always objected to the income limits from the very beginning when they were presented to study aid,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u103	Congressman Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u104	Mr President! Yes, work should always be worthwhile. The pattern of working in our country is a bit even, you can say, twisted. Young people are taught certain types of incentive traps from college. Thus, hardworking students are simply punished for working even if their studies progress at a record rate. I would prefer, first and foremost, to pay student aid on the basis of credits rather than on the basis of study time. However, according to the government proposal under discussion, the student could work for one working day a week for the next year without losing his or her student financial aid, which is also a welcome proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u105	Congressman Berg.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u106	Mr President! I personally thank you for this good proposal. I personally do not see it as a problem that a good proposal has now been made, that the income limits for student aid have been raised by 25%. During this year we will look at the effects it will have and, as Minister Kurvinen well said, at that stage we may find the capacity to make this a standard practice and continue with this possible increase in the income limits for student aid. However, on all sides, it must be important for everyone to see that the studies are progressing as planned after this, and I do not believe that it is important, but that is precisely why I think it makes sense to follow this issue in a year, when we see whether this is going to happen as we have anticipated.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u107	Like this. — And now the time for this debate is about to be completed, but if Minister Kurvinen will be here for another two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u108	Mr President! First of all, it is a great thing that there is such a wide-ranging discussion of the situation of students and young people in Parliament across different parliamentary groups. I think it is already a value in itself and it tells us that we really care about the factors of our future, which, however, will depend on the success of our country in the future. A few more views of this good and analytical debate. First of all, when you are in a government, everyone is in charge of government decisions and the government is acting as a college and a group, and it is probably not very smart to start blaming any other minister or other government partner. I think this was a very interesting debate, the President-in-Office, to which I would like to go for a moment — perhaps a little as it may be, if it seems to me that this is about to end. In other words, it is this thinking that whether we need the limits of free income or not, as a few Members here from different parties and above the government—opposition limit commented. Of course, it must be noted that there is a certain limit to our unemployment security. However, this is a social benefit paid by Kela, and it is a big question whether we see student aid more as a salary for studies or whether we see student aid as a social benefit, a social policy. We do have many other instruments to support students socially — meal support is often underestimated, it is quite a big thing that the student gets a warm, healthy meal, and then also in general housing support the students are now involved — but this is of course such a view. Personally, I am a little inclined to think that a certain income limit should be, that if you make an enormous amount of money, then is it necessary to get money from Kela — a bit of a guest? But perhaps such a study or a broader overall reform should be carried out, and that is the big question, which was already wrung at the SYL Federal Assembly when I was active in Central Students: that student support is more paid for studies or social benefit. This must be considered, but the main thing is to go in the right direction and improve the running.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u109	Like this. — The debate and proceedings are now suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u110	The next step will be to continue work on item 11 that was previously suspended. — The debate continues. First of all, Mr Könttä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u111	Thank you, Mr President. This government proposal on the income limits for student aid is certainly very much to be welcomed, commended, and one can say that the long-awaited – this has been discussed in society for a very long time. I remember myself in time when I was not only a student and a student politician, so there were some top themes that the student income limits would be raised. Years passed, but now, thanks to the government's proposal, this will finally be taken up. Of this broad support, I am sure that this feedback is, as a general rule, very encouraging, very commendable, and both student organisations and, for example, other relevant stakeholders who expressed their thanks for this, and indeed this responds to the long-standing desire that the student side has had. This proposal will now increase the annual income limits by 25%. That's a good, significant raise. Each of us who studied in the past has certainly fought with these income limits. It has been thought, as I did, that, until the end of the year, the Prisman cashier could work, because if he worked too hard, he knew that the financial aid would be recovered, and yes, it was an exact mark-up policy, even though it was already lived for the euro, that he would certainly not do too much hours, that there would then be no recovery. In that sense, too, the possibility that, as studies progress and work tastes, more work can be done, that I do not see the downside here at all. There is also the side of what Mr Kurvin said earlier in this Chamber, namely that if and if and when this proposal, which is now in force on a fixed-term basis, and the information that comes through it, is positive, as is expected and, according to estimates, seems to exist, this could be continued, and this is a positive message from the Minister for Science in charge of higher education, that if the results are good, then they can be continued and, of course, if they were negative, then it would not be continued — that is what the decision-making is based on the science of doing so. But now, according to all these statements and also in advance, this experiment is going to be positive, I think it is very good that this is going to continue. Let us also continue to consider raising the income limits and bear in mind the principle which I said a little earlier that if studies go well and work tastes good, that is a very good thing, and it is held in this Chamber, in this house and in this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u112	Thank you. — Representative Kivisaari absent, representative Mattila absent, representative Aittakumpu absent, representative Olliikainen absent, representative Sarkomaa absent, representative Talvitie absent, representative Hopsu absent. — — — — Congressman Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u113	Mr President! In fact, there is a law amending the Student Aid Act. Here Mr Könttä spoke with great merit and brought up that history. As Mr Könttä said, he has once worked at the Prisma cashier and thought about the exact markka and exact euro policy, that when you have studied at the same time, how about these income limits, at which point they will pop? I myself have been driving a milk truck in college, and it was the same thing all the time, as it is at hand, that how much you can earn so that you don't have to pay back the student allowance. And it did feel bad when those income limits went over and then had to pay back these student grants. Finally and finally this proposed 25% increase. In practice, this means that the income ceiling for the month in which the aid is granted would increase from the current EUR 696 to EUR 870 and the income limit for the month without aid from EUR 2078 to EUR 2600. For the sake of clarity, these income limits will then be rounded to the nearest 10 euros. This is a fine reform, it has been taken forward for a long time, and I would also like to thank Mr Kurvis, the Minister for Science and Culture, for his good and firm presentation of this issue today, and I would also like to thank him for the fact that this is how civilisation and progress move forward in this area too.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u114	Thank you. — Mr Kvarnström is absent, Mr Pitko is absent. — Ledamot Strand, var vanlig.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u115	Värderade Talman! Det handlar alltså om en ändring till lagen om studytöd där man nu temporärt höjer inkomstgränserna.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u116	Thank you, Mr President. And thank the government for this presentation, which will certainly take this state of affairs forward. From the point of view of the opposition and from the perspective of the Finns-Finnish people, I saw a warm support for this proposal and also supported the possibility that in the future it could also be increased by more than 25%, and that it could then be permanent. But you don't want to stay there, so if you just get a better deal in the negotiations with the others, the warm support will leave here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u117	Thank you. — Mr Könttä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u118	Thank you, Mr President. In this respect, I genuinely believe that it is a place for debate, for parliamentary debate and also for studies to be carried out, that, while student aid is a social benefit, somewhere in my view there is a limit — although it must always be encouraging — but somewhere there is a limit for when social assistance is granted. In that sense, the debate sometimes gets a little distracted when it is thought that, regardless of income, there should be student support. I see it as a social benefit, but I am not saying that these current limits, including this raised limit, are the right level. It is worth discussing this and bearing in mind that, at least for the time being, student aid is considered to be a social benefit paid for these reasons. But it's a very good thing that this income limit is rising here. There is also a significant employment effect. Precisely, as Mr Kettunen said here, when he had to think very carefully about how many hours he could drive that milk truck, so that he would not have to pay back the financial aid received, we now have quite a lot of people for such jobs as those currently, for example, where there is a crying shortage of employees, then in the market to the Prisman cashier, where I worked for my study time, as well as in the restaurant industry, hotels and so on. There the students are, many of them are studying these fields, also very motivated to do, for example, in the trade sector, which I perhaps know best about these professions, even those hours of work and shifts which, for understandable reasons, are not necessarily something a family person wants to seek. In that sense, too, there is a great labour reserve, which can now be used more. And here too is the big change in the direction of higher education policy, which should be commended. The Minister of Science, Mr Kurvinen, has taken over this issue very quickly, as well as a change in the direction of higher education policy, which, regardless of the region in which the person happens to study, in which region the university happens to be located, has added these study modules, the fields of study. The University of Jyväskylä, my own home university, has applied for new people to study, which then goes back to working life during studies, and students are directly affected when they are able not only to promote their studies but also to do a number of tasks. I can assure all students that no matter what it is, all the work is just as valuable, and I encourage everyone, according to their powers, to work even during their studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u119	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u120	Honorable Speaker! An increase in income limits is an effective way to improve the income of students. However, I must once again praise this law in this debate on referrals. This increase in income limits decided by the government is a rapid cure for the shortage of experts experienced by many sectors. This will also increase employment, increase the income of students, which is the most important thing, and will also bring more students to study support. At this stage, it is also good to highlight this higher education policy. Thank you to Mr Köntä, you have raised this debate last week, this national debate on the decentralisation of higher education, which Mr Kurvinen, the Minister for Science and Culture, has highlighted with merit. I'm on the same page with the Minister. In other words, I am very surprised when, last week, the President, Mr Akava and the Confederation of Finnish Industries came to the conclusion that the decentralisation of education would put the quality of education at risk. The fact that experts in the future in different fields are being trained at the same time in many universities or universities of applied sciences in many different places is not out of place. I think that we can do a really high-quality and high-quality science in Kainuu. What is the basis for the idea that quality education and science can only be carried out in Helsinki? Is it now the idea of the Helsinki offices of Akava and EK that Kainuu, for example, does not need higher education at all because education is not of sufficient quality in a small unit? Without a regional policy on higher education, we would only have a university in Turku. There would have been more peasants. Kainuu without master's papers to walk down the driveway. For example, when Kajaani University of Applied Sciences received the responsibility for the education of socio-economics during this parliamentary term — thanks to Hanna Kosonen, then Minister for Science and Culture, and Saariko, who preceded her — this responsibility for socio-economic education increased the number of students at Kainuu and Kajaani University of Applied Sciences. Some of them graduate and may stay in Kainuu to work. That, if anything, increases the vitality of the regions. As Mr Kurvinen, Minister for Science and Culture, has said, even a small unit can be good and profiled. We have a university centre in Kajaani that could serve as a mini-university, an independent operator. The fact that we no longer have university-level teacher training, for example, is currently showing itself to be a crying shortage of teachers, and we are still embittering in Kainuu that the then minister abolished the teacher training institution. The accessibility and equality of education are not excluded from anyone. It should be the right of everyone, including us in Kainuu. It must be the right of everyone throughout Finland. That is why, Mr President, I wanted to take the floor, and Mr Kurvinen has certainly brought up this decentralised education policy in the political debate of recent days.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u121	Thank you. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u122	Mr President! Representative Mr Könttä pointed out this point of view that there should probably be a wider parliamentary debate on how we view this study aid and then on how we look at these income limits. If we think that Kela supports students, so can income limits be unlimited? Perhaps I would like us to think more about this from the point of view that such a person who is studying has two options in addition to studying: either he is unemployed or at work. The kind of person who does not study and depends on Kela’s support is an alternative to working or unemployed, but as a student he studies at the same time. Thus, it could be seen morally justified that if he is so diligent that, in addition to his studies, he is still working hard, we would not in a way put a trap of encouragement on him, but would reward him specifically. That it would certainly benefit society. In many areas, in fact, work is better taught in that education than the theoretical training which you will then receive from the educational institution. For example, Mr Kettunen, we had a good speech from you in relation to this Kajaani teacher training unit, which was quite shocking about what happened in connection with it — at the University of Oulu, where I myself have just attended this class teacher education, we students have just had the habit of talking about the style, and especially those graduates who have then gone to work have discovered that only during the first year of working life have they actually trained themselves on what it really means to be a teacher, what it takes to do when we go on to do those plans for semesters and go on with those children. The fact that we are there within the university for five years really does not qualify us for that profession yet, but only after we get to work, then it will happen. Thus, if you already have the opportunity during those studies, even though the teacher student makes a lot of appointments in different schools, then such a person will be much more qualified: he or she has work experience when graduating. The competition is tough in some places for teachers, and this kind of person will then have better chances of getting into work when he has made those teacher positions at the same time and it has qualified him. That is why I wanted to take part in this parliamentary debate. Certainly it would be the place, and for my part I would say that this status of students would be somewhat different from the way in which this support policy is generally perceived. That it's not right to be jealous of others. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u124	Thank you. — Mr Könttä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u125	Thank you, Mr President. A few clarifications, and I have to say that there is too little dialogue and debate in this Chamber that may also want to hear and learn and reflect on the speeches made by other representatives. It's healthy, and it's the best contribution of evening sessions. Well, with regard to the big picture of our social security system, that is the parliamentary working group, which I did not remember to mention in that regard, in the work on the overall reform of social security. I am strongly in favour of a system such as basic income, which would then, with a few exceptions, take into account, for example, the income of students in connection with this legislative proposal under discussion. In other words, we would have a basic income with a few exceptions, such as the family situation, the study situation, other reasons, perhaps a few other arguments, but, as a rule, this kind of model, such as basic income. Well, what does that have to do with this conversation? It is precisely because, with this information, I believe that student support is a social benefit, although I fully agree with Mr Tynkkysen's examples, that the more people work with studies, for example, as those studies progress, I see nothing bad about it, and I see no reason to be jealous either, because the fact that studies are progressing and the work tastes like it, in fact, no matter what tasks the person does, it is better. I remember myself in the first job interview, even though I had done work that had nothing to do with studying political doctrine — or at least it was not directly related to that I did not work in agencies or such, ministries, tasks, but there at Prisma's checkout — my first employer appreciated that you worked during the studies, and I'm hating it. I would like to ask, or at least to make it clear, that the situations, although rare, where a person is working, where the monthly earnings would be, say, several tens of thousands of euros a month, and this is a question of social security — I am not quite sure whether it will then be fair. Of course, the basic income model which this parliamentary working group on social security will also be taking a position on - and I am therefore in favour of - would solve the issues. When income increases, subsidies decrease, and correspondingly when income decreases, subsidies increase. But that there are no limits here, my opinion is still a little open, but I think this is a small one for social security... Or while this student allowance is still a social benefit, it has to be taken into account that if those earnings are quite lavish, then is it fair that in addition to that, till,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u126	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u127	Mr President! There has been a good debate here — thank you. These are good debates at this time of night. — — — — I would also like to remind Minister Kurvise of his courage to question the centralisation of higher education, and he immediately heard some pretty emphatic comments about how he is reducing Finland's excellence. This is what the Helsinki Sanomat, the local newspaper of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, wrote about last week's policy of Minister of Science and Culture Kurvise. On this subject, a distinguished column was written yesterday by Kainuu Sanomat Journalist at Kainuu Sanomat, and a small quote: ‘A return of self-interest on the closure of the Kajaani teacher training institution in 2013. The admission of early childhood education students was already discontinued in 2007. The then government decided to concentrate, in other words, to increase efficiency. Of course, the decision to abolish the teacher training institute was made by the University of Oulu’s Board of Directors. The decision was not influenced by the simple, effective figures. The Kajaani unit spent less than a third of the budget of the Faculty of Education of the University of Oulu. Kajaani campus, however, produced up to half of the faculty’s masters in the best years, and the number of graduates is one of the funding criteria for universities.” Well, with this in mind, we must now remember that this country is developing when we have a wide, diverse network of higher education institutions. President, I would like to add to this: Of course, this will expand slightly, but as the referral debate is taking place and now there is a debate on the Student Support Act and the amendment of the Student Support Act. After all, it has also been in the discussions that the time has come for us to go into this so-called Norwegian model. In other words, we would now go to the student loans side so that credit for student loans would even be partially forgiven, for if a freshman went to work in a sparsely populated rural area, in those provinces. We need to be in remote areas, and we need to be attracted to them. We must have a carrot to get doctors, teachers, psychologists and social workers to work in these vacant jobs. Here again, the Minister of Science and Culture, Mr Kurvinen, gave an interview a little more weeks ago that this Norwegian model should still be brought to the finish during this reign.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u128	Thank you. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kettunen: warm support for your contribution to this Norwegian model. At the moment, therefore, we have a situation in Finland where we are in an accelerated state of emptying the countryside. And all this is that when people go away to study, for example, they don't come back. There are even fewer employees to maintain different services, the funding base has been atrophy anyway, and so on. It is like one accelerating pattern, and all the things that could contribute to the fact that this countryside is not emptying but, perhaps, on the contrary, that it is moving in the opposite direction — which must have been made possible by the interest rate period for teleworking — for its part. So, at least from here on the Finns' side, warm support for it, but oh, when you're in the government, [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u130	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u131	Yes, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Tynkkynen. I know that Mr Tynkkynen has travelled to Kainuu last weekend, visited Upper Kaunus and Kajaani and knows that there is knowledge in the provinces, that there is industry in the provinces and that if our province is not well, Finland is not well. There is the forest industry, there is the extractive industry, there is agriculture, there is tourism, there is culture. And you have to remember that people live in that province. They want to live there, they want to live there a good life, and now, especially in this time, when big generations remain on well-deserved retirement days, we do need those factors in those regions and also in those sparsely populated rural areas, too, because we need to take care — this is also a security policy perspective — also from the point of view that it is desirable that in this country as widely as possible the lights return along the country of Finland, especially in that eastern Finland. And I continue to call on it — and thank you to Mr Tynkkys for supporting this Norwegian model, with which we would contribute and achieve it — to get those experts once the schools have been completed to work in that sparsely populated rural area. Thank you for this good debate. This has been rewarding and I am sure that this will also be a good referral debate when this law goes into preparation for that committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u132	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. Here too, a maximum of 30 minutes will be set aside for the referral debate and the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases will be followed. — Minister Harakka absent. — Let's go to the conversation. Congressman Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u133	Mr President! Transport emissions account for about one fifth of Finland's total greenhouse gas emissions and about 40% of the so-called burden sharing sector emissions that are excluded from emissions trading. Transport therefore plays a key role in achieving Finland’s national climate targets and the European Union’s emission reduction obligation. Halving emissions is a step towards carbon-free traffic. The Government Programme has committed itself to taking action to reduce emissions from transport. The aim is to facilitate the transition as a whole in a more sustainable way of moving and releasing fossil fuels. The present draft law proposes to introduce a new law on the periodic support of the purchase of alternative propulsion vehicles and the conversion of vehicles into alternative propulsion. The law would lay down the conditions for purchasing aid and conversion aid for full electric cars, electric and gas-powered vans and electric and gas-powered trucks to convert petrol cars into ethanol or gas. The proposal proposes that EUR 2000 be granted for the purchase of one full electric passenger car or for long-term rental. The acquisition aid would be granted in the form of a new purchase or long-term rental of a passenger car up to EUR 50000. The proposal also proposes the conditions for aid for the conversion of passenger cars into gas or ethanol. The conversion aid could be EUR 200 for the ethanol conversion of the vehicle and EUR 1000 for the gas conversion. The aid could be applied for the conversion of one vehicle in a calendar year and could be applied for by a natural or legal person. All procurement subsidies and conversion subsidies would be applied for from the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency in the future. The continuation of full electric car supply support is expected to increase somewhat the popularity of electric cars among households. The acquisition aid reduces the selling prices of electric cars, which in turn reduces the cost of electric cars in relation to the hybrids and internal combustion cars that are charged, so it can be assumed that some households will decide to purchase electric cars instead. Mr President! The central parliamentary group welcomes the bill on purchasing aid for electric cars and conversion aid to convert a petrol car into ethanol or gas. Driving is still necessary outside urban areas, as the benefits of public transport do not extend there. Lawmakers also need to understand that it is not possible to switch to electric driving in rural areas by clicking fingers simply because there are not enough charging points. Therefore, promoting the use of biogas is a more natural alternative to this environment. Bio- and synthetic fuels and biogas are domestic sources of energy and bring jobs around Finland. At the same time, dependence on oil will be reduced, which is, of course, a good thing. Procurement and conversion aid is an incentive for motorised consumers to move towards more environmentally friendly transport. It is also a good thing that there is equal support for all forms of road transport moving towards zero-emission transport. The Centre is committed to reducing emissions from road transport, but not increasing costs. The transition period must also be fair, because changes in motor vehicles affect different groups in different ways. In the future, transport taxation should be brought on a fairer basis based on kilometre and road class-based taxation. In those areas where driving is not necessary and public transport can be achieved, taxation would be higher and, accordingly, taxation would be lower in areas which require the use of their own car.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u134	Like this. — Representative Aittakumpu absent. — — — — Congressman Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u135	Mr President! Thank you for this presentation, which, unfortunately, the Minister has not yet had time to present — perhaps he is still on his way to this Chamber. But at this very early stage I can say that we in the Committee on Transport and Communications have already taken this proposal for a preliminary hearing at today's meeting. This proposal would provide for a total of six aid schemes for low-emission vehicles. Three of these are the continuation of the three aids already in place and three completely new ones. The proposal would extend the current aid for the purchase of electric cars, conversion aid and gas-powered lorries. It is also proposed to introduce new subsidies for the purchase of electric and gas vans and electric trucks. A total budget of EUR 6 million is proposed for next year. The purpose of the procurement subsidies is to accelerate the roll-out of the car fleet into more emission-friendly alternatives and to promote the use of electricity and gas in transport. At the same time, the aim is to contribute to the development of the charging and refuelling infrastructure through the promotion of growth in demand for alternative power. In addition, aid is intended to reduce the purchase prices of electricity and gas-powered vehicles if they are increasingly available. The more we make these vehicles available to people, the more they will eventually also enter the market for second-hand cars, making it possible to obtain them more and more. Mr President! This proposal is part of the implementation of the so-called fossil-free road map. The proposal is therefore intended to contribute to Finland's common objective of halving transport emissions by 2030, as already outlined in the last period, compared with 2005. As this and many other proposals show, the government of Prime Minister Sanna Marin is committed to this objective. Last Friday in Glasgow ended in order 26. The UN Conference on Climate Change, where Member States met to agree on how to strengthen global action to address the climate crisis. In accordance with the Paris Agreement, the objective is to limit the rise in global temperature to 1.5°C compared to pre-industrial time. Although some have been disappointed with the outcome of the climate conference, it is clear that the importance and urgency of reducing emissions is recognised globally. In this process, Finland is also strongly involved with the EU. Last July, the Commission presented its own proposals for the so-called 55 package of preparedness for stricter emission reductions. This is a package that we have formulated in this autumn, and these positions are still in the process of being formulated in committee. Mr President! Climate action is carried out in all sectors, both in Finland, at EU level and globally. That is why they are also needed in transport, which is responsible for one fifth of domestic greenhouse gas emissions. The measures are not aimed at restricting anyone's mobility, only emissions. They're also not made to bother anyone. The government's starting point is to ensure a fair transition. That is why the road map for fossil-free transport is also moving forward with a wide range of means of support and incentives ahead of us, as the present proposal shows. With regard to this aid, the Taxi Federation has wondered why taxi companies were excluded from the scope of the aid for the purchase of alternative propulsion cars. When the Minister gets here in the Chamber, hopefully soon, I believe he will also be able to give an enlightening answer on this point, because I believe that this matter has already been on the table in the preparatory phase. At this point, I would like to conclude that the committee has therefore already started working on this matter in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u136	Like this. — and Mr Pitko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u137	Mr President! This government proposal is good and important. It promotes the widespread use of electric power in our road transport. These procurement subsidies have, for example, been widely introduced in European countries. They make it possible to buy an electric car or a gas car for more and more Finns. This will also give us second-hand cars on the market when they are being re-sold, and thus more and more people will have the opportunity to purchase a second-hand electric car, which, of course, is already much cheaper than these new cars, which are currently even higher than those of petrol-powered cars in general. In Finland, this support for the purchase of a full electric car is EUR 2000 and is proposed to be continued. It is quite small even on the Nordic scale. For example, even more vigorous incentives have been introduced in Norway, where even half of the new cars sold are now electric cars. In other words, their promotion of this electronic transport is much longer than ours, but Finland is still following us, and fortunately, the share of electric cars in cars sold has increased considerably this past six months. Let's hope it continues. Well, in order for electronic transport to become possible for even more people, we obviously also need charging points. For this type of traditional commuting between home and work, there may be enough place to charge at home or at the workplace, but there is limited amount of it. Finns also travel at cottages and other activities, for example, and for these longer trips there is also a need for fast public charging points, or many people travel long distances by car in Lapland, for example. This is why we need these public fast charging points. Unfortunately, this proposal does not support electronic bicycle transport, which could of course also have been part of this package, and subsidies for the purchase of electric bicycles have also been discussed in Finland. After all, the purchase of electric bicycles has also grown strongly in recent years, and especially during this current corona pandemic, people have become more and more excited to travel on wheels. I would therefore like to see further consideration given to this aid for electric bicycles.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u138	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u139	Mr President! Here I took a look at this supply support for ethanol and gas and electric car and various conversion solutions, and such small ideas arose. As far as I am concerned, the gas car, particularly the biogas car, is much more ecological than the electric car. It has been mentioned here that the purchase aid of EUR 2000 will continue to be paid to the electric car and there will be no aid for gas cars at all. However, when the conversion aid for this gas conversion is EUR 1 000, could this logic not increase its aid from EUR 0 to EUR 1 000 for the purchase of those gas cars? In some way, I'd see that as reasonable. Then, too, if we want to reduce emissions — EUR 200 for this conversion of ethanol — and if the government really wants to do so, then I think that this aid for the procurement of ethanol conversion should be increased to EUR 500, so that the threshold would be considerably lower. This type of ethanol conversion device costs about four and a half hundred euros, with installation and change testing on it. Then I wonder that, even after that, it will still not be taken into account in the emission values associated with the taxation of the car. Then, as a small point here — I do not know because the government has made this proposal, but this is not in any way up-to-date — we are talking about the price of ethanol, that it costs EUR 1 litre. If you go and see, it will now cost EUR 1 40, which means that the price of ethanol has risen by 40%. Little towels could now be presented to the government about this sort of thing that you do not even understand yourself there in the government, how much fuel price has risen this year, i.e. a little precision now there for your activities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u140	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u141	Mr President! The basic principles of this proposal are all very well and well supported. Support for the purchase of full electric cars and, by the way, the increase in the use of these alternative fuels is to be welcomed. Personally, I do not understand why taxis, for example, have been excluded from this, and it would of course have been interesting if the Minister had been here to present this, since we have taxis precisely those who drive the type of driving where these electric motors would be very important. And if you think about urban driving, the emissions coming into the air and others would be such that you would hope that this increase in the number of electric cars would progress. Ethanol, gas, biogas, as above, among others, the representative Mäenpää brought up, are welcome fuels in the future. But I would be happy to have mentioned here, too, how much fuel prices have risen during this current government... A year ago in August, this government made the biggest increase in the gas and diesel tax in the 21st century. There has not been such a great increase in this millennium. It was aimed specifically at people living in rural areas, those who have to use a lot of cars, and it was then justified that, since the world’s oil prices are low, the price at the pole is not really rising. Well, now that you're at the pole, you're currently paying around two euros per litre, and diesel is already talking about very high sums. And a year ago, on 28 October, there was a debate on this so-called compensation model. I would have asked about this today when it was a year ago. Timo Harakka, Minister of Transport,in the A-Studio at the time, stated that ‘bank accounts appear to be cash’and,as I add, EUR 1,100 and see my account [SunaKymäläinen's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u142	Congressman Kymäläinen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u143	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Heinonen on this point that I do not understand why internal combustion engines should be banned or why internal combustion engines should be seen as evil. We fully agree with this, because we are not banning internal combustion engines. We are encouraging alternative forces and we are giving full support to the car industry, which is constantly developing to make cars more emission-efficient, and I do not see this as a problem. But it also does not exclude that we need to look for other alternative emission-free means, and that is why we are passing through these subsidies. The aid that has already been started in the last period will continue here, and it will now bring even more new aid into the range of instruments. Then I'll respond to the follow-up later.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u144	To the list of speakers. — Mr Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u145	Mr President! The Agency gives due criticism of the application procedure, which should be as simple, rapid and administratively light as possible. It is not acceptable for consumers to have to wait weeks or even months for support decisions. For a large number of consumers, even €2000 will determine what kind of car they are buying or not buying.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u146	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u147	Mr President! After all, this government proposal is moderately commendable. There is also a massive EU 55 preparedness package currently under discussion in Parliament, and it has become clear that action is also needed to cut climate emissions from transport in a smart and less costly way for citizens. This proposal is quite appropriate, although at least on the basis of the feedback received, the impact of the proposal should not be exaggerated. Reasoned concerns include, at least, the level of support that has now been provided. Many commentators consider that the €2000 incentive is not enough. The main reason for this is the still high price of full electric cars. For example, in its opinion of 10 October21, the Car Importers and Industry Association stated: ‘Although demand for electric cars is growing rapidly in the passenger car population, the need for aid has been justified as the price difference between the average internal combustion engine and the full electric car is still around €20000, i.e. a small number of passenger The abolition of the full electric car tax, which came into force from the beginning of October, is not yet a sufficient incentive to increase demand for electric cars as an exclusive measure. The impact of the purchase aid for the early years of the power revolution on the number of electric cars in the stock in subsequent years is significant, as shown by the development of the Norwegian and Swedish fleet.’ This figure is still the ceiling on the purchase aid on the passenger car side, which in practice excludes a significant part of the full electric cars available to consumers. That is why it may be appropriate for the committee to review this level further. Another concern, Mr President, relates to the adequacy of the funding earmarked for this procurement aid. Many commentators consider that the two and a half million euro annual budget proposed by the Government's draft budget in the current electric car market is not sufficient to provide support for the purchase of electric cars. There is a risk that underbudgeting will lead to a competitive search for aid, and this in turn would cause market failures in the demand for electric cars while some households are waiting for possible further funding of the aid. At its worst, this could lead to a slowing down of the electrification of the car fleet, i.e. an escape of the main objective. This adequacy of funding should therefore be carefully examined. Furthermore, Mr President, I agree with many of the rapporteurs that there could have been more forward-looking advantage in limiting this procurement aid. In other words, procurement aid could already have been extended to hydrogen cars. A number of consultations in the Committee on the Future of Europe's transport sector have shown that fuel cell cars are expected to gradually become more common in the car fleet as the 2030s approach. For the time being, we do not have the number of hydrogen vehicles, much because of the lack of a distribution network, but this change can be rapid, as we can see from Central Europe. In one way, this is also an issue of equality. In order to ensure technology neutrality for electric motor cars using different sources of electricity, the procurement subsidies proposed should also be open to hydrogen cars. Unfortunately, this is not what is happening in this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u148	Like this. — We are approaching the end of what was the time for this debate at this stage, but since Minister Harakka has just arrived, let us give the opportunity to present it again. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u149	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry about the mix-up in the schedule. I hope that I will also answer some of the questions that I am sure have been raised here in this Chamber on procurement aid. They have been in public for several months now, and that is why the way in which this proposal has been put into effect has been particularly sensitive, because the risk of market failure has been high in many ways, and I am glad that the car industry has become particularly warm thanks for the fact that this has been managed in a way that has not disrupted the car trade, for example, in such a way that, in the expectation of its future large supply aid, people would leave electric cars unacquired, but, for example, now in October, the situation was that a record number of full electric cars were registered as new 18 %, and on top of it still 20 % of rechargeable cars, so the starting point for this government proposal is excellent. In other words, as I am sure it has become clear, this government proposal supports the purchase of alternative propulsion vehicles and also the temporary conversion to alternative propulsion. It is part of the road map for fossil-free transport decided by the Government in May 21. According to the proposal, the aid for the purchase of electric cars would continue at present, i.e. aid could be granted to private individuals for the purchase of a full electric car of up to EUR 50000 and the conversion aid for passenger cars would remain unchanged. As a new product, the purchase aid for vans and lorries can be applied for by both individuals and companies, and the amount of the aid is staggered to the size of the vehicle. Similarly, the procedure for applying for procurement aid would be reformed and the Agency for Transport and Communications was responsible for granting the aid. Support for a full electric passenger car would be sought after the acquisition. The applicant should submit an application before the purchase of a vehicle to the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency in respect of the purchase aid for vans, which have been imported as new electricity and trucks, both electric and gas-using. Two questions which are most commonly raised here: The taxis have asked why this acquisition aid does not apply to taxis, and this is, of course, something that must be dealt with with with all seriousness. The taxi industry has, of course, suffered a great deal during this pandemic. At the same time, the reform of the taxi law and the regulation of taxis has also led to difficult situations for many. Now, however, if we compare the mileage in taxi use with the mileage in private use, the difference is, of course, considerable, so that it is clear that the considerable reduction in the cost of operating these cars, when moving from an internal combustion engine to an electric car, will in itself result in the potentially higher initial cost of an electric car being extinguished rather quickly, and when the prices of electric cars come down, even more quickly. Then, of course, the second question relates to the level of support that is higher in many European countries, much higher in many countries than in Finland. We have tried to create a situation where sudden market disruption would not arise and that we would operate within the framework of responsible government finances. Our objective is, of course, to monitor in real time that this procurement support is sufficient for the intended purpose and, above all, to the common goal of all of us, in which Finnish passenger car transport has been electrified by 2030, as anticipated in the road map for fossil-free traffic. After all, compared with spring 2020, we received positive information that the reductions in emissions were already higher than anticipated, and accordingly the assumption of how many electric cars will be in traffic in 2030 has also increased significantly. It has risen from about 300,000 to as much as 600,000, and now in the latest forecast to 700,000, which would mean that a quarter of the cars on the road would be electric or at least chargeable. Therefore, we seem to be on the right, very good path in this regard, and I believe that this measure will bring about the intended reductions in emissions without having to take measures which would clearly increase the cost of driving for ordinary people. Thank you, Mr President, thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I trust that this proposal will also receive good treatment in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u150	Yes, and thank you to the Minister. — The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u151	We will now resume the debate on item 12 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session. — The debate continues. Mr Torniainen is absent — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u152	Thank you, Mr President. In this Chamber, we are now discussing support for the purchase of alternative propulsion vehicles and for mobile vehicles to be converted into such vehicles. I would remind the government of the fact that in most of Finland the alternatives to propulsion are petrol or diesel. A commuter from Espoo to Helsinki may be able to choose between hybrid Mersu, electric Tesla or metro. However, there are few alternatives for people living in rural areas and they should be able to move. The options are in practice: whether I am fueling up today or even more expensive fuel tomorrow. Minister Harakka has already announced loudly that government action will not increase fuel prices and that this too will be replaced by low-income and sparsely populated areas. Despite this, in many places two euros have already broken in the meters, and no money has appeared in the purse. What are their options? You want me to get a new Tesla as a first-car car and fill up some ethanol in Hiace? Hello! During the weekend I was traveling around Kainuu, and I promised to bring many young people's greetings here to Finland's highest decision-making place, Parliament. The price of petrol and diesel does not only affect business travel or, for example, transport companies and hence food prices in shops. A young man came to Suomussalm in Jalonrait and felt that he had a 20 - mile [30 km] journey to his girlfriend’s home. That's where the price comes from love. Here in Helsinki, people are often laughing at young people in rural areas when some remain in the trunk and no wives are found, so do we really have to throw them at the wheel? And when I told you this with permission in TickTok, a number of young people began to send out a message about the price of visiting a partner in a sparsely populated area. Well, then, young people don't have much hobby opportunities all over Finland, but for many young people in rural areas, mopeding is terribly dear. When you get to drive around and see your friends, you make sure that your kids don't go home and get molded, but that's a social life, too. Say hi to the moped boys in Kajaani who came to see you last Saturday. Your greetings have now been brought from this Parliament's toilet to all the people. There are many other things that are not as busy now as the calculation of the fuel tax. People run out of money to run around. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u153	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be set aside for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. The 14th item on the agenda, which will be presented in the same context, will also be allowed to be discussed in this context. — For the debate, Mr Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u154	Mr President! The Presidents' Council proposes to amend the Statute of the Parliament's Office and to repeal Article 15 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The bill proposes to repeal the Law on the Library of Parliament. In addition to the bill, all four other members of the board of the library have signed the bill. The amendments are based on a statement by a working group set up by the President. The mandate was to explore the development of the organisation of parliamentary communications, information services and library and archive activities. On 17 June 2021, the Assembly approved a working group's proposal to reorganise the Office's organisation. The aim is to reduce overlaps, facilitate the flow of information and management, and make knowledge more fully available. In the future, the information and communication department would include a communication unit and an information support unit. The Library of Parliament would be in the Information Support Unit. Mr President! The current norm of the Parliamentary Library is heavily bureaucratic. In the current situation, the Library of Parliament is governed by the Statute of Parliament's Office, the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, the Law on the Library of Parliament and the Statute of the Library of Parliament. In the future, the regulation of the Library of Parliament would be centralised only in the Statute of the Parliamentary Office. The library report is currently being presented to the plenary session every year and will be sent to the Committee on Culture for adoption. The final report will come back to the Chamber later. The connection between the Library of Parliament and Parliament is important, but the current treatment described above is cumbersome and of limited added value. It is not appropriate in the future for a single set of services in a single department of a new organisational model to provide Parliament with a report to be dealt with as a parliamentary matter. Mr President! In March 2021, the Government of the Library of Parliament issued an opinion on the planned organisational change. We unanimously supported a more flexible model that serves better than the current operating environment. The Board of Directors of the Library stressed in its statement that the name of the Library of Parliament, which will be 150 years old next year, would remain unchanged. We also considered it important that the Library of Parliament should continue to be a central library of legal information, social information and parliamentary information that is open to all. These wishes have been taken into account in the presentations before us today. The connection between Parliament and the Library of Parliament remains. In future, it will be possible to discuss the activities of the library during the plenary session, for example, when discussing the annual audit report of the Parliament’s auditors on Parliament’s financial statements, annual activity report, accounting and administration. In the future, the Library of Parliament should also keep in close contact with the customer base by organising meetings and customer events with different user groups. The Board of Directors of the Library and its experts will no longer be available in the future, assuming that the Act on the Library of Parliament will be repealed as proposed from 1 January 2022 and the Board of Directors of the Library will be removed as an institution. Mr President! Finally, the most common cause of failure is the inability and unwillingness to adapt to changed circumstances. When environmental requirements and the field of communication change, organisation must also change. That is why we are discussing these proposals today. The proposals are well prepared and well-founded. The development of the organisation, better use of knowledge and clarification of management are changes in the public interest. The proposals have no human resources implications. Furthermore, the proposals have no significant direct economic impact. The monthly compensation of EUR 463 for the Chairman of the Board of the Parliamentary Library will be abolished as from 1 January 2022. So my fee is going down. I hope that the proposal will be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u155	Yes, Chairman of the Board of the Library, Congressman Kiuru. — Mr Aittakumpu, Mr Aittakumpu is gone. — Representative Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u156	Mr President! This is now a matter of organisational change and, in particular, of reducing it. This bill, presented by the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Library, has indeed taken account of the change in the organisation and general operating environment. After all, it is rare for the government itself to end itself, but it is a credit to the government. As chairman of the Committee on Education and Culture, I am speaking here: the report by the library board and the library in general has always come to the Committee on Education, and it is very nice to hear it because it is one of the best libraries in the world. One can say that one of the best libraries in the world is in Parliament, and how kind of service and expert and professional it is — as in all libraries, but of course this time I am speaking about this library of Parliament. It has, of course, been great that it has created such an organisation, and that the library has been mentioned in the Rules of Procedure and in everything that Mr Kiuru has referred to here. After all, the value of the library is not lost in the fact that the organisation is now changing and can say that the administration is falling. Administration and such steps of government are falling, and value is by no means decreasing. We have the opportunity to discuss the functioning of the library, just as Mr Kiuru said there, including inspection reports and others here in Parliament, and of course we can, for example, discuss the library in the Staff Committee if that is what we want. I think that the fact that the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr Kiuru, brings such a proposal here is to be welcomed and indeed can say that it is rare for the President himself to present such a proposal that his own task should be removed. Let me add that, overall, this is a positive change, and we are dealing with this in that committee with the real dignity that should be given to it, and I believe that that support will come from all parties and from all groups. It is very welcome to lower the administration, reduce the work and still keep our library in a high course. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u157	And Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u158	Mr President! With some mixed feelings, I accepted this proposal, but I agree with Mr Risiko that this library is not going anywhere, but is going to be reduced in terms of administration and bureaucracy. And once this is an entity in which this whole Parliament has been studied, the proposal is good and worthy of support. When also the chairman of the board of the library, Mr Kiuru, this bill has been prepared and signed by the entire current board of the library, it must be seen that this is such a broad consensus-gathering proposal. On numerous occasions in this session I have held up this knowledge of memory. In my opinion, the Memory Archive is one of the finest things the Library of Parliament has maintained, alongside the traditional library. There are interviews with veteran MPs and, by the way, these debates in the Chamber have triggered the fact that these long-term representatives, such as Mr Kanerva, have been able to be interviewed there. It was, of course, an extremely job-creating entity, when we are talking about the 50-year career of Mr Kanerva, but it is a good thing that this work has been done. Now I would like to ask the chairman of the board of the library, Mr Kiuru, whether this memory archive work, the interview of veteran MPs, will continue? There have also been interviews with long-term parliamentary officials, at least former Secretary-General Tiitinen has been interviewed, and I sometimes raised the point that it would also be interesting to have Marja and Reiskak in the post office on this whole — certainly a lot of historical information that could be of interest to this archive and the researchers of the future. But I ask the chairman of the board of the library, Mr Kiuru, that this will continue and that it has also been possible to continue this memory data work during the corona year or years?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u159	Like this. — And the chairman of the board of the library, Mr Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u160	Mr President! Congressman Heinonen asked about this memory file. It's a new name. Previously the name was Veteran MPs' memory archive, but it was then changed to the Parliament's memory archive, precisely because other persons who had a significant influence on parliamentary work can then be included in it, who have acted in a visible way here. All the work that the Library of Parliament is currently doing will continue in the future. Only that organisational model will change. There's no change for the customers, at least not for the worse. The name will remain, the library will remain open to all citizens, all those working in Parliament, journalists, officials, students and anyone who wishes to use the library's services at all. This work has continued during the corona period and will continue in the future. In other words, we will reduce administration and bureaucracy, streamline management and try to make all the know-how more accessible to the staff. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u161	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 9/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Elo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u162	Mr President! In the presence of the chairman of the committee, it is a pleasure to present the government's proposal for the establishment of Salla National Park. The National Park will be established in the state-owned Sallatunturi nature reserve in the municipality of Salla and will become the 41st national park in Finland. The initiative to establish this national park has come from the municipality of Salla. The in-depth survey of the municipality and the involvement of local residents and associations in the preparation provide an excellent starting point for the establishment of a national park. One of the reasons for the establishment of Salla National Park is that the area is well accessible by public transport. It contributes to sustainable and low carbon tourism. The fourth amending budget for the year 21 provides for the cost of setting up the National Park. A one-off investment cost of EUR 4.5 million is to be covered by Metsähallitus funding and partly by transfers between budget items. Mr President! According to the Government's proposal, the total regional economic income impact of the Salla nature reserve was approximately EUR 5.2 million in 2019 and the employment impact was about 40 person-years. The number of visits and the amount of revenue that will remain in the area is expected to increase clearly as a result of the establishment of the national park. Overall, the establishment of a national park will have a significant positive impact on employment and business activities in the region. According to the proposed law, Salla National Park will include nearly 10,000 hectares of state land and water. The area of the National Park is of natural value. Its natural values include beautiful dangerous landscapes and representative parts of the state-owned Sallatunturi complex. This future national park is especially an area of ancient forests, highly representative abscess and woody swamps, ridges, and land forms shaped by ice age and erosion. This area presented as a national park is also important from the perspective of cultural heritage and Finnish military history. Mr President! In the whole of Finland, the national park is always primarily a nature reserve. Once this aspect has been secured, efforts can be made to reconcile other uses of the national park. Salla National Park restricts hunting on state land to the extent that the area of the National Park is currently part of Metsähallitus' permit hunting areas. However, this national park area of less than 10 hectares is a really small part of the hundreds of thousands of hectares of permit hunting areas that remain available to hunters. In fact, the committee's report states that the establishment of a national park would not significantly affect the future of hunting tourism in Salla or elsewhere in the landless hunters' potential to hunt in the Salla region. Hunting would continue to be allowed, with the exception of the restricted area, for the Sallans as well as for the members of existing hunting clubs registered in Salla. However, there is a restricted area where no hunting is allowed, and there are, among other things, the departures on routes near the tourist centre and the winter routes as a whole. The demarcation of this restricted area is based on a proposal from local operators and is highly justified from the point of view of user safety. Mr President! The popularity of hiking is growing nationally, and this is reflected in a significant increase in the number of visitors to national parks and hiking areas. This is very positive but at the same time challenging from the point of view of the carrying capacity of nature and the adequacy of the local service structure. The views of recreational use of the National Park are also influenced by the diversification of outdoor activities. Tourism service entrepreneurs and recreational users need new service structures, such as snowshoes and mountain bike routes. This development will contribute to the pressure to reconcile the various uses of the national park with nature conservation and in a way that will indeed safeguard user safety and the preservation of natural values. In the preparation of the National Park's operating and management plan, it is therefore necessary to balance the conservation and development of the region's natural and cultural values and to enable a wide range of outdoor activities. In its report, the Committee stresses that all planning and steering of the activities of the national park must be based on the safety of users. In the field of hunting safety, further work should take advantage of the hunting safety survey published by Metsähallitus in 21 and the expertise of the local game management association. Mr President! The committee introduced an amendment to Article 3, which aims to allow the hunting rights of deer in the national park, irrespective of where the hunter is located, to be maintained by members of registered hunting clubs domiciled in the municipality of Salla at the time of the entry into force of the law and whose hunting area belongs to the national park. This report contains an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u163	Like this. — Representative Myllykoski absent. — Mr Koponen, Mr Ari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u164	Mr President! I agree with the protest of my fellow party colleagues that the establishment of national parks and hiking grounds would not unnecessarily reduce hunting opportunities and local hunting rights. This proposal is doing this quite significantly by limiting the total use of permits by foreign hunters from out-of-town and hunting clubs.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u165	Congressman Simula.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u166	Mr President! The Government’s objective is to increase considerably the number of nature parks and nature reserves, of which Salla National Park is one now under discussion. In nature conservation areas, hunting is, in principle, prohibited. At the same time, however, in the Government Programme, the government has promised to safeguard hunting in the future, and that brings us to the conflict between these two objectives, which can also be seen in the proposal from the committee round. Although the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has reduced its record of deer hunting to meet the needs of hunting clubs in the region, the proposal does, however, limit the scope of the permit hunts carried out by both non-local hunting clubs and by foreign hunters of hunting clubs. Furthermore, the proposal does not take into account the Salla hunting clubs that may be set up after the entry into force of the Act. It is natural for associations to be formed and dissolved, but by law new hunting clubs would not be subject to the same rights as existing ones. In view of the significant increase in nature parks and nature reserves during this government period, all forms of hunting restrictions in these areas effectively reduce hunting opportunities and make it difficult for traditional lifestyles, hobbies and game management on the one hand, and hunting dog breeds on the other. State forests are the property of all of us, and through the licensing system it is often the kind of hunters who do not own their own forest and therefore have not been able to become members of hunting clubs in their own municipality of residence. Without forgetting hunting tourism, it also has a regional economic significance. It would be fair for all citizens to be able to hunt within the licensing system in the common areas of Finns. Of course, hunting must be coordinated with other recreational use in the region to ensure safety, but it is only the creation of common rules of play, nothing more. Safety can be guaranteed and hunting can be coordinated with camping, for example by regulating permit volumes or time limits without an absolute ban. In connection with Salla National Park, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry issued an opinion on which we Finns disagreed, together with the Coalition Party and Christian Democrats, precisely because the proposal unnecessarily reduces hunting opportunities. At this point, I cannot afford not to speak more broadly about how the creation and hunting of nature reserves are being put against each other today for no reason at all. Hunting is a natural treatment, not a blind killing and shooting, as it seems to be perceived in some circles. Hunters do important game management work, keep predator populations under control and do everything they can to combat alien species: work to safeguard Finnish biodiversity. Currently, there are plans to protect forest areas of 35,000 hectares in Northern Finland, for example. In principle, hunting is restricted even by the fact that trap hunting of small predators, such as minks, is banned for part of the time. So let the minks run and eat even the young birds of endangered water. That doesn't make any sense. Similarly, at least some areas are banned from hunting with dogs, which indicates a total lack of understanding of Finnish hunting. In the same areas, even private land has been expropriated in the past because of nature conservation, and it has been promised that otherwise the hunting will continue normally. It has then been thought that the protection decision will be swallowed up precisely because of these promises. Now even those promises are being broken step by step. I also think it is wrong that the draft law of the Ministry on nature conservation should also reduce the rights of forest owners and therefore hunting opportunities. In fact, the draft suggests that a conservation decision could be taken in the area planned by the Government for nature conservation, regardless of the willingness of the landowner. This is a flagrant violation of property protection. I cannot understand why they want to force forest owners and hunters against protection. This and other points that have been made in my speech tell us that the government really does not care about the government's record of the government programme, which defends hunting. How does the centre allow this ideological hatred of hunters and forest owners to continue? Mr President! I will come back to this myself for the establishment of national parks. That is a great thing, and I am certainly not opposed to their creation, but the infrastructure of the new nature reserves to be established, i.e. routes, signs, lavaves, toilets, stairs and so on, must also be maintained, and money is needed. There is a repair debt, although funding has been increased for nature services in Metsähallitus, for example, and there is more of it than in the past. Money is also needed to maintain existing routes and destinations in areas other than national parks, and not just to create new ones. In fact, there has also been a large number of closures of good hiking routes, apparently due to a lack of funding. For this reason, for example, income from permit hunting should not be combated outright, but coordinated both sustainable hunting and the preservation of wilderness traditions and other recreational use of forests in these areas in accordance with the Government Programme. Not to protect people from the forests, but to safeguard the Finnish wilderness tradition in the future. It requires a change of attitude and greater consideration of hunting.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u167	Like this. — and Mrs Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u168	Mr President! In the report on the Salla National Park, the Group of the Environment Committee of the People's Party submitted a clause on the protection of hunting, and we will make our proposal to that effect in tomorrow's plenary session. Mr President! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection considers it good that new practices are being developed for a cleaner and safer environment. One good example is the establishment or expansion of national parks. It can also be noted that this measure to set up Salla National Park has positive effects on tourism in the region and its integration. At the same time, however, there should be concern about the adequacy of maintenance funding, as the maintenance of new and expanded service structures with investment funding will require additional funding. The increasing number of visitors sought by the establishment of the National Park also increases the costs of managing and maintaining the structures. Thus, there is a risk that the creation of a new national park will further increase the debt to repair the equipment of national parks. One solution to the correction debt could be to request voluntary payment, as the committee states in its report. For example, tourism service entrepreneurs operating in the Oulanka National Park pay a fee for the use of structures and firewood. Similarly, a voluntary fee could be proposed for other users of the park, from which the revenues are used to maintain the park’s services and contribute to the preservation of natural values. Currently, permit fees are collected from, for example, fishermen and hunters, and these revenues already cover expenditure on Metsähallitus' sites. Mr President! Although our committee is in favour of the establishment of the Salla National Park, we attach great importance to the fact that, when establishing national parks and hiking grounds, we do not unnecessarily reduce hunting opportunities and local hunting rights, but must be available to the entire population on an equal footing. However, the Salla National Park project is now significantly restricting the right to hunt. In this proposal, the national park is intended to exclude the authorisation hunting by foreign hunters from the out-of-town and hunting clubs, and there is also a ban on hunting in the area, where only moose hunting would be allowed. Our committee believes that this very moderate area of prohibition is justified in itself, but it must also be allowed to hunt deer using a dog, because hunting an elk as an elk is not suitable as a form of hunting in that area. Hunting plays an important role in safeguarding biodiversity or in providing deer and predatory stocks, for example, so that they do not cause damage to the road or unduly harm to the industry, such as agriculture and forestry. Taking security issues into account is very important when coordinating camping and hunting in the national park. This is entirely possible, even if hunting is not unduly restricted in the area. For example, one option may be to limit the permit hunting period during the most popular summer season, if deemed necessary. Mr President! I would also like to point out that the government's proposal does not take into account the rights of local hunting clubs, which may be established after the entry into force of the law. In order to ensure the continued operation of the local hunting culture, it is important that the Salla hunting clubs established in the future are also entitled to hunt in the Salla National Park, if the club belongs to the region. Finally, I welcome the fact that the use of motor vehicles is allowed to take away the catch. In fact, motor vehicle routes can also be used in the context of emergency services. In view of the above, the Salla model could also be introduced more widely in our other national parks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u169	Thank you. — and Mr Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u170	Mr President! We are proud and happy that during this term of government we have over doubled the funding for nature conservation, which has made it possible both to expand the national park network and to take better care of the current hiking routes and hiking areas. National parks safeguard biodiversity and offer wonderful natural experiences. The area presented as the Salla National Park has old forests, bogs, large dangerous landscapes and an impressive Gorge Valley of the Atsing Grave. Salla National Park would be established in a region of nearly 10,000 hectares in the municipality of Salla. It would be Finland's 41st National Park. I hope there will be more this season. The sensitive fell nature of the future national park deserves a national park status, and I wonder how little has yet been said about nature in this debate, perhaps more about hunting only. There are also many endangered species in the area, such as a few limes and a yellow - flowering leprosy. The park area would include a large Pyhätunturi, which is nearly 500 metres high. Most of the areas in the future national park have already been protected under Natura 2000. In addition to nature, the establishment of the park would also benefit the economy of the Salla region. In recent years, the popularity of hiking has increased dramatically as a result of the corona. In particular, domestic tourism has received new impetus. In addition to the nearby forest, more and more are heading for nature experiences. It opens up new opportunities for the natural beauty of sparsely populated rural areas. Studies show that the euro invested in the national park produces EUR 10 for the regional economy. No wonder, then, that this initiative from the National Park has come from the municipality of Salla. Setting up the park would support sustainable nature tourism, as Salla National Park could be reached from here to the south by means of a train-bus combination. The number of visitors to the area would increase. In addition to tourism, it would also be visible elsewhere, such as shops, restaurants, accommodation establishments, service stations and the services they need. Over the next seven years, the national park is estimated to increase employment in the region by 90 person-years. This is something you should always think about when you think about what industry is being promoted in the region, that tourism is actually a highly employment-rich industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u173	Congressman Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u174	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been demonstrated in this debate, Salla National Park is the 41st national park of its kind and now, at the stage of the proceedings, that we are here at first reading after the work of the committee. We must remember at this very beginning that this national park project is, therefore, very much from the local community, and it was also a positive part of the committee's work when the experts on this proposal were widely consulted. The proposal has also, contrary to what may have been suggested in some speeches, taken into account, in good cooperation in the region, the hunting rights of the locals and also the possibilities. In its report, the committee stressed that derogations from hunting restrictions are intended to ensure the continuation of local wilderness traditions. In turn, the exceptions to the shareholders of the Paliskunta safeguard the conditions for the practice of reindeer husbandry. For Finnish tourism, clean nature, nature reserves and national parks are a competitive asset. People need nature, and the effects of natural mobility on health are quite incontrovertible — certainly on us too when we use these services. The number of visitors has been increasing delightfully. It is of course a positive thing, but at the same time one can see its challenging development, which is linked to the carrying capacity of nature and the sufficiency of the local service structure. This is why it is very important to emphasise good cooperation with local residents and businesses in the development of national parks, even after the establishment of these national parks projects. In the referral debate, I said that both this and future governments should stick to the funding of nature services. It is not enough to set up new national parks, it is also necessary to take care of existing sites and, of course, it also calls for euros in concrete terms. In committee work we went one step further and recorded in the report that one solution to the correction debt could even be voluntary payment from users. In my opinion, however, we must be very specific here, because the starting point must continue to be absolutely free of charge, even though the introduction of a voluntary fee, for example by using digital services, is being investigated, and that is, of course, today. In the debate, I said that I welcome Salla National Park to Finland, and I can say that in these situations, when you have been able to stay in the house for several years and have been able to take national park projects forward with different government formations, they are always welcome and warm your mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u175	Like this. — Representative Sipilä, Sipilä gone. Representative Talvitie, representative Talvitie also gone. — Mr Pitko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u176	Mr President! Finns love national parks. This National Park to be established in Salla and hopefully the future Evo National Park are a gift to Finns who love nature. Yes, it should be noted that municipalities want national parks. The municipality of Salla has made this proposal itself to establish the Salla National Park. No wonder, since these national parks have significant regional economic effects. This government proposal states that, even now that Salla has only this current nature reserve, its overall regional economic impact in 2019 was around EUR 5.2 million — i.e. the regional economic importance of the nature reserve — and the employment impact for about 40 human years. If compared with these Hossa figures, it can be assumed that: Even in Salla these figures will double. In other words, nature conservation and the national park have significant regional economic effects, although they are not the primary reason for the establishment of national parks, but nature conservation. There has now been much talk of hunting in this Chamber. I myself think that Finland’s forests can accommodate both hikers and hunters. We've got room. It is well founded that where a national park is established and where visitors are raised and expected to increase, hunting is also restricted — but hunting is based on the use of weapons. Local hunting rights remain in Salla, and I consider it important to gain local approval. Often local hobbies are based more on hunting than on hiking, while hiking is a pleasure for people from out of town. On the other hand, it is also understandable that the pressure on hunting in these nature reserves would increase. As a living person in Northern Finland, I know very well that the accelerating felling of forests has made many of the wilderness areas young forests, seedlings and low-altitude woodlands split by ditches. Neither hikers nor hunters want to enter such forests. I hope that, when we also talk about state-owned forestry measures in this Chamber in the following areas, we will also take into account the fact that both hunters and hikers can be found in nearby areas, in their own neighbourhoods and as close as possible to their own homes, places to engage.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u177	Congressman Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u178	Mr President! Salla National Park is our 41st National Park, and the creation of a new National Park is always a joy. For eight years I was allowed to be in the Environment Committee from 2011 to 2019, and there we were able to set up several national parks, including Hossa National Park during the centenary year of Finland. The importance of the local economy is high, and many of these national parks are also present in an area where, by the way, access to additional jobs is particularly challenging. Travelling is increasing, travel in nature is increasing, and, as has been said here, the economic impact is also significant. It has been said that, indeed, one euro will bring back EUR 10, and on the other side, where there is more of these national parks, it will only increase in importance. There has been talk here about hunting, and I know from my own experience when these issues have been discussed that it stirs up passions and contradictions. It is not always easy to resolve the law in such a way that everyone can be absolutely satisfied, but generally a lean compromise is better than asking for everything and getting nothing. After a long time, the national parks have been very well received. And in every context when we talk about national parks, I would like to remind you of the valuable wealth we have, that is, the wastehouse network. We've got over 200 deserted houses, and we've got to hold on to them. It is quite exceptional in international comparisons. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u179	Thank you. — and Mr Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u180	Mr President! Indeed, national parks are our national treasures. Perhaps I too am a little confused about how this hunting is being highlighted here — of course it was also doing so in the committee's debate. I would also like to point out here that these restrictions on hunting have indeed been negotiated in good cooperation with local residents and operators, and the result was also respected in committee. Indeed, as has been said here, it is precisely the intention to ensure the continuation of the local wilderness tradition and, at the same time, to ensure the safety of visitors to the national park. I would also like to say that this is about the 10,000 hectares and a lot of them, hundreds of thousands of hectares, around the rest of the country. However, Mr Pitko has also pointed out that it is important, of course, that these state countries are managed in such a way as to be sustainable in terms of forestry, that they are also suitable for recreation outside the national park. There was talk of confrontation. I myself think that this confrontation can also be created by the forced desire to hunt and hike in the same area, especially in the most valuable areas of nature. These hunting rights in Salla National Park are quite liberal, although they may not be so evident from these speeches. On the other hand, however, the committee's hearings also heard worrying, critical expert opinions on this security aspect, and that is why it is necessary to take it seriously, while the number of hikers will certainly increase in the Salla region. I personally believe that it is important that we genuinely try to reconcile the various needs and discuss them. Mr President! Even when the members of the committee raised the issue of this voluntary levy for the financing of the infrastructure of national parks, I also think that it is, in principle, important that national parks should be free of charge, but that different services can be paid there. I also welcome the fact that now we are looking at the possibility of collecting voluntary payments.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u181	Congressman Lundén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u182	Thank you, Mr President. To begin with, I want to spell it out when, as I understand it, someone in this Chamber has been given the impression that someone would oppose the establishment of a national park. No one is opposed to it, but the unnecessary restriction of hunting there.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u185	Thank you. — and Mr Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u186	Mr President! Now the law is passed on Salla National Park. The National Park is established in the state-owned Sallatunturi nature reserve in the municipality of Salla. And I am pleased that there is now a 41st National Park in the municipality of Salla in Finland. There has now been a debate on this hunt. Well, the committee has also stressed that derogations from hunting restrictions are intended to ensure the continuation of local wilderness traditions. The aim of the exemption provision for out-of-town residents is also to allow moose hunting for former residents of Salla who have moved from Salla but still belong to the local hunting club. And this is a good addition. During this discussion, the forests of our state and their management and use have now also been brought up. We must remember that in Finland forests are used in accordance with the principles of sustainable development. And as a hunter, I have to remind you that last autumn I was in Kainuu in a well-managed household forest, and there you can hear the bird of the man in Kainuu, a ball that lets you think it's just a bird of the big forests and a bird of the old forests, but in that well-managed pine forest, when I was in the moose forest, the moon came to see what this man here is doing. [PetriHuru’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u187	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u188	Mr President! Now we are dealing with the Salla National Park, but at the same time I would like to remind you that we also have a fine national park in northern Savo, the Tiilikkajärvi National Park, which is also designed to be extended and has been extended to some extent. It has also been funded by the North Savo Union, and the representatives of the region are aware of this value. It is a very nice place, and I hope that in Parliament too we will see positive notes on this national park. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u189	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u190	Mr President! National parks in Finland are beginning to be quite well. What bothers me about these things is this processing system, that when hunting and the multiple use of forests in general are important to citizens and especially local people, who live there — or they have moved from that region to Helsinki, but they still have hunting grounds and fishing grounds there, and then there are many other forms of multi-use — then they will immediately start to restrict them in these national parks. All of these who are enthusiastically in favour of these must remember the fact that the landscape in that national park in Salla at the moment will not last longer than twenty years. It's going to be a huge rhythm when the forest grows and nothing is allowed to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u195	Thank you. — Representative Huru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u196	Thank you, Mr President! I would like to correct some of the arguments relating, for example, to safety. Safety and camping are indeed compatible, not only by banning hunting. I'm sure hunters don't go out in desert house yards with hikers in the same yard shooting. They're outside the hiking trails. Of course, every case is too much and unnecessary, one hunting accident. But when we compare the number of hunting accidents with the number of hunting events, the ratio is really small, the number of hunting accidents relative to hunting events. There are several hundred thousand hunters in Finland, and surely there are many more events than accidents. As far as Mr Hopsu's reference to the sustainability of nature is concerned by increased hiking or, for example, cycling, I claim that when a hunter walks through the woods, for example, with his dog, he leaves a much smaller mark in the forest than a bicycle hiker. — Of course, I am not banning cycling in national parks. As far as hunting is concerned, it is part of the Finnish wilderness culture and indeed an important part of safeguarding biodiversity. We cannot, for example, safeguard biodiversity from foreign predators without hunting, which has already been understood by the Greens, and even the fiercest conservationists. If you have minks in the wetlands, there won't be any ducks there to pick. As Mr Kiuru said about a thin agreement, it is a lean agreement better than a fat dispute, and that is why this form of hunting by Salla would be acceptable if local hunting clubs had the opportunity to invite hunting guests, for example. The same practice could be transferred to other Finnish national parks. And that's all I'm really saying. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u198	Thank you. — Representative Myllykoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u199	Mr President! Salla National Park is founded and is therefore true. When I think about my hunting right, it is now being ignored by me on state soils by this decision. In other words, the right which I, as a citizen, have to hunt on the land of Metsähallitus will now have to be waived by this founding decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u202	Thank you. — Representative Simula, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u203	Mr President! There is a great deal of emphasis here on the fact that efforts have been made to respect the hunting rights of local people when it comes to excluding us other hunters, such as Mrs Myllykoski and the undersigned, and quite unnecessarily. For example, the Hunters’ Association’s statement was quite clear: hunting is being reduced in an unreasonable way by the presentation. As far as safety is concerned, this is already the representative. The Huru brought it up. In other words, hunting accidents are very bad, and one is always too much, but in terms of the number of hunting events they are ultimately very small, fortunately. Hunting is practiced here in the south and elsewhere in the big cities even close to the settlement without problems. Combining hunting and camping is not a problem. Hunting always takes security considerations into account. That's the starting point every time we go hunting. And, as has been said, hunting tourism is also of regional economic importance and brings money to the locality and to the maintenance of national parks and prolongs the season for the post-brown period. Thus, the utilisation rate of services and accommodation would improve. That too would be in everyone's best interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u204	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u205	Mr President! It is good that national parks have come to Finland and that the list is still being updated, but one day the roof will come on this list too. In other words, there can be no endless national parks and nature parks and protected areas in Finland, because they are then out of the economic activity on which Finland was built. Of course, I understand that the national parks have such a touristic perspective, but what makes you, ladies and gentlemen, justify the fact that when a rural person drives his car — even now that Grandma Möhkön to the village of Ilomants to buy his handicapped man coffee and a little lunch, and maybe buy some Karelian pies from Parppeirt, and then when he drives home, it has come to 75 kilometers, 80 kilometers — then, ladies and gentlemen, many of you talk about climate emissions. Well, will these not become climate emissions when 100,000 people swung from Ilomants or Helsinki or the capital region in Salla or Hossa or somewhere else? It's a huge line of cars. Kol, for example, is starting to have a situation where there is huge traffic in private cars and more parking spaces need to be built. Well, you're not worried about this climate emissions at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u208	Thank you. — Mr Peltokangas, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u209	Thank you, Mr President. There has now been a very good debate on this nature reserve, and there is little to add to it — even to that speech by the former chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mr Hoskosen, whom I have appreciated. But I would like to draw attention to such an issue and I would like to see further consideration in the hunting patterns of the Salla nature reserve that, when hunting for local hunting clubs is guaranteed, there is such a small childhood that if, for example, two hunting clubs, i.e. the local hunting association, become one new association, then I understand that this new association will no longer have a hunting permit in the area. And here is a small casting error which should be pointed out that this should not be the case, because today, unfortunately, in hunting clubs, men are beginning to grow old — yes, they are as good as younger, but then hunting clubs may be united in some areas, and so we should ensure that new local clubs are allowed to hunt in the areas in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u211	Thank you. — Mr Pierainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u212	Mr President! There was no disagreement as to the establishment of the National Park. The opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, for example, is based on this issue of hunting law and has been the subject of lengthy discussions. But when we look back on the national parks established in the past, it has always been accompanied by this hunting right or the loss of its right in certain respects. And perhaps here is still a special situation in the sense that Lapland and Kainuu are covered by this kind of traditional hunting law, i.e. state lands in their own municipality area are allowed to hunt without a hunting fee. And this is the way it is now secure for Salla, which means that the locals are allowed to hunt in that area — except in the core area where the ban is on. So these are important things then, even if, when we look at the landless hunters, we of course could use those state countries to hunt, and now it is not possible to go to that area except by joining hunting clubs there, for example, what is currently there. That's where they keep the hunting rights, isn't it? And these new national parks have already emerged. Now that we have been through this in these hearings this autumn again, how much we have different repairs debts in national parks or in Metsähallitus nature services, it is a significant sum. We are talking about tens of millions of euros. And now new national parks are being set up. They always require their own money to get those activities running there, and here is the information that has come to me, at least, that some old areas are already being dismantled. In other words, I find it irresponsible or difficult to create new ones and then destroy the old ones, because their territory is different from what is currently new. Well, we've been enlightened on this. For example, our representative, Mustajärvi, who lives near Salla, has made a very significant point about the way in which this proposal should be viewed, and there is also sympathy for the establishment of this national park and then the preservation of this hunting right by the locals, but we, who would like to visit it, of course, regret this establishment. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u213	Thank you. — Congressman Pitko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u214	Mr President! Mr Huru spoke to talk about the fact that there are few accidents in hunting today. Fortunately, hunting accidents have fallen over the decades, but they still occur. Again this year more people have died in a hunting accident in one year than large predators, for example, have caused deaths in the forest or in nature in the last 100 years. I mean, in one year, hunting accidents. I think that each of these deaths is too much, everyone and should not be underestimated.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u217	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u218	Honorable Mr. Speaker! Good speeches have been made here. Mr Hoskonen was concerned — since this is now the 41st National Park — that there are already many of these protected areas in this country and how many forests are protected. Well, as far as this Salla National Park is concerned, there is a happy situation that this National Park comes to Sallatunturi National Reserve, which means that this is just a continuum — and quite a large area, nearly 10,000 hectares. But I wanted to speak because I share this concern, which Mr Hoskonen and Mr Pierainen raised here, that we actually have 40 national parks that already exist in this country. At the heart of Sotkamo Salmonlands is Hiidenporti National Park. How has it been marketed, how has it been managed? Is this the case that, when these new national parks are made, the former national parks will be a little less and their benefits will be less? But, Mr President, I would also like to remind you that, even though these national parks are made, in this country, in line with sustainable development, forestry and economic policy also creates such conditions in the forests of Finland, that we do have a diverse forest and environment around these national parks.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u219	Thank you. — Representative Myllykoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u220	Mr President! In fact, Mr Pierainen has already raised something that I would also like to say. Yes, now that these hunting clubs have the right to exercise this hunting right, these clubs can join, but no new clubs can be set up. I am not going to go into the idea of the Association Act, how many clubs there must then be in some areas and why can't there be an association that focuses on hunting? But that may be less of a problem here. I believe that Mrs Huru wanted to say that there are many hunting events and that there are very few hunting accidents in relation to it. That is how I would like to understand that he meant that there are particularly few accidents on the outside in connection with the hunting event. Hunting accidents do happen, as Mr Pitko pointed out, and they are regrettable. But in every hobby, whether in golf or anywhere, accidents always occur, which, of course, are not desirable. But the most important thing, in my opinion, is that those good messages have now been taken into account. In other words, the old national parks must also be taken care of and the funding of nature services is on a solid basis, so that they are actually available, because that national park is not an absolute value if it does not have access.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u221	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u222	Mr President! In order not to leave the wrong picture after Mr Pitko's speech, I will correct a few facts. When a natural park or national park is set up, what miracle is there in that young forest, whether seedlings are made or the landscape is opened, when nothing is to be cut down, no stick crossed, nothing. And here Mr Pitko has just proved that the landscape is preserved and that old forest is being reformed. It's being renewed during a huge long arc. As I said, I wondered, like many other representatives, my colleague, that the condition of the existing national parks seems to be of little interest to me as long as there are more new areas. If you want to visit a genuine natural forest that has not been moved for a long time, there is an area in Ilomantsi in Patvinsuo National Park. It's a huge beat that hasn't been touched by a human hand in a hundred years. If anyone imagines that it is the natural forest that this city seems eager to desire, then no one wants that kind of forest. There's nothing growing there. You don't dare move there when you're in shock of fallen, decayed trees, it's very difficult, if not impossible, to go there. There's no game in there. How would that moose and his horn get there when people don't get there right? Such images are distributed here — things that have nothing to do with science, and then they are fed to people through the media as truth. That's what I'm wondering. This is the image of Finland, our beloved country, today, that a certain image is created, after which a final decision will be made, which will then be detrimental to Finland's forestry. The same is true of this climate policy, which also applies to that sector. As we should develop the climate and increase carbon dioxide sequestration, we will be presenting more protected areas, as is currently the case. That is why we are destroying this climate policy. If the forests are not managed, the carbon sinks will not grow. If anyone can scientifically prove to me that my speech is not true, I would be happy to accept that information. Over the last 50 years, the growth of forests has been much doubled, i.e. the carbon sink has doubled, and so has the carbon stock. And all we have here is talk about is putting an end to forestry and protecting everyone, getting the taxonoms of all the world into effect, and more protected areas. That is how we destroy the Finnish economy, climate policy and people's desire to work at the same time. There's a thing about it that I would never want to happen. On this path, we will inevitably find ourselves in that situation. Someone has to come to their senses before they do.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u223	Thank you. — And the chairman of the committee, Mr Sipilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u224	Mr President! I apologise for the late arrival, but the Vice-President of the committee has presented this very well here. A few words. First of all, I think this is a very good example of how the national park proposal starts in the region, how it is being prepared together, how different interest groups are being taken into account. There was also good feedback from entrepreneurs about how much opportunity this is for entrepreneurs in the region and then also brings income there. This hunting site may now have received an oversized share when it comes to the national park. The National Park is wanted for the locality, it has been obtained there, and according to the Nature Conservation Act hunting in the National Park is, in principle, completely prohibited. An exception has been made here and it has been carefully prepared, and the result is that the residents of Salla may hunt in that area, and even deer hunting is allowed in the municipality of Salla at the time of the entry into force of this law for registered hunting clubs, whose territory this belongs to. So I've been exceptionally well taken into account by hunting. Much was said about this unfortunate shooting and hunting safety in the committee, and I think that this is a legitimate concern, which will then have to be taken into account in this kind of national park environment, and clearly it has also been taken into account. All in all, I believe that a very well-prepared proposal which takes account of the different players in the region in a balanced way.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u225	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — I will open the debate. Congressman Juuso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u226	Mr President! The Government proposes an amendment to the Health Protection Act whereby operators would in future be charged a tax-based EUR 150 per year basic fee for the establishments and activities the operator is obliged to notify or require approval of. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is opposed to increasing the tax burden on business in the form of new tax-like payments. There is no justification for transferring money within a municipality from one pocket to another. It has been suggested in the expert consultations that the basic charge to increase the overall cost burden of the companies presented is not based on measures which would allow the charge to be considered appropriate for an individual undertaking in general. As a result of the basic annual fee, companies would have to pay a supervisory fee even if they were not subject to control measures. Mr President! The basic fee for monitoring under the proposal would be a mere additional cost for companies. In addition to other factors, the introduction of the basic fee for monitoring is justified by the fact that the accrual of the basic fee would allow for more effective, preventive advice and guidance. The promotion of more effective advice and guidance is to be welcomed, but it is questionable whether this would be the way it is planned. An operator who has not been subject to an inspection would normally not benefit from guidance and advice related to the inspection. Furthermore, there are no changes in the proposal to implement the preventive advice and guidance proposed as the basis for the introduction of the fee. Although the operator’s own investment and self-control may reduce the fees generated by the controls, it would not have a negative impact on the basic fee for the controls. A particularly questionable proposal is to increase the cost burden on the tourism sector at the moment when the corona virus crisis has brought down the viability of the sector. In 2020 the gross value added in the accommodation and nutrition sectors fell by over one third and many accommodation companies lost more than half of their turnover. The unnecessarily prolonged measures imposed by the government and, inter alia, the over-measured measures against tourism in relation to the recommendations of the THL and the ECDC further undermine the conditions under which the tourism industry operates. In this situation, it is not justified to impose new parafiscal charges on the sectors most affected by the corona pandemic. If, at the time of the introduction of the basic levy, companies had been given the possibility to reduce the burden of payment for accrual-based payments through their own activities, the basic charge could at least be justified in some way, but it would have been reasonable to postpone the introduction of the charge for example by one year at the beginning of 2023 due to losses incurred by the companies as a result of interest rate restrictions. In view of the above, we propose that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u227	Thank you. — Representative Reijonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u228	Mr President! Extra taxes never make entrepreneurs happy, and this seems to be such an unjustified extra tax. So I support the proposal made by Mr Kaisa Juuso, i.e. the rejection of this proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u229	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Mrs MmVM 13/2021 vp. The committee proposes that the legislative proposals be rejected. — I shall open the general discussion. Congressman Myllykoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u230	Mr President! Now we are dealing with a legislative initiative to end open fellings in state countries. Let's start with the background. The organisations behind the citizens' initiative and the signatories suggest that the legislation relating to the use of state forests should be amended so that, as a rule, it would not be allowed to carry out renovation fellings within the meaning of the Forest Act in the future in the state-owned areas. In practice, this change would mean a shift from open fellings and intensive farming fellings to continuous forest farming methods. In other words, the purpose of the change was to contribute to the achievement of the social objectives set out in the Metsähallitus Act and to define clear minimum requirements for state forest management measures and the implementation of logging from a sustainability perspective. The report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry takes a clear step towards the objectives of the citizens' initiative, even if it is not fully implemented. But it is noteworthy that new information, or the latest information, supports the greater use of the method of continuous education also from an economic point of view. Under certain circumstances, continuous cover farming is more economically profitable than open cutting, but not always. And although the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry rejects the citizens' initiative, there are two important statements. First of all, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry proposes that Parliament should require a report from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry on the increase in continuous education in the appropriate forests on state land by the end of 2022. Secondly, Metsähallitus' revenue targets should be set in such a way that they do not hamper the overall sustainable use of state forests. This report should be submitted to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry by the end of 2023. And what is significant is that these statements have been adopted unanimously by the committee. In other words, although the committee has not agreed with the citizens' initiative, it has, as I said at the outset, taken a step towards making more decisions on the basis of information on natural forest management methods, rather than simply locking ourselves down to our own positions — which is good. And yes, I must say that the Left Alliance is delighted that Parliament is in favour of developing forest management methods as knowledge increases. An important goal, and that has been one that has pleased us as a party. We can welcome the unanimous position of the report that the use of state forests in the future will only be possible if the framework conditions for overall sustainability are met.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u231	Thank you. — Mr Salmonikoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u232	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Citizens' Initiative, Open cuttings into history, is an historic one. In the light of increasing information, it is clear that Finnish forest use practices need to be improved. In fact, the organisations behind the citizens' initiative and the citizens who have signed demand that, as a general rule, open felling in state-owned areas should not be allowed in the future. In practice, this change would mean a shift from open fellings and intensive farming fellings to continuous forest farming methods. Mr President! Finland has been used to thinking about forests specifically from the point of view of economic use and value, and the method of continuous farming was even prohibited by law until 2014. However, in the current era of the environmental crisis, it is clear that forests also have extra-economic values. Forests are of vital importance to many species, and in Finland the species of forests are at the forefront of the threat development. Nearly one third of all endangered species are forest species. The current uses of forests are the main reason for this, so the development of forest uses is necessary. Mr President! Although the report does not propose the adoption of the citizens' initiative, it contains two very important statements, as Mrs Myllykoski has just said. For example, the committee proposes that Parliament require a report from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry on the increase in continuous farming in the appropriate forests on state land. The report also takes a clear step towards achieving the objectives of the citizens' initiative. The main argument in favour of continuous education is that continuous education causes less harm to diversity, water bodies and recreational use. The overall sustainability of forest management will be improved by increasing continuous farming. The Left is pleased that Parliament supports the development of forest management methods as information increases, because nothing else is right or reasonable in this time when the environmental crisis should be curbed by developing our own policies to be sustainable. Secondly, Metsähallitus' revenue targets should be set in such a way that they do not hamper the overall sustainable use of state forests, and a report on this must be submitted to the committee by the end of 2023. These two statements have been adopted unanimously by the committee and that is a great thing. Mr President! The Left Alliance is very pleased that in future the exploitation of state forests should only be carried out in accordance with the framework conditions of overall sustainability. It is very desirable that the cutting of state forests of uncharted value by researchers and activists should be permanently removed from the agenda, and the solution to this problem is precisely to reduce the pressure on results. To date, MPs from the Left have also been working to suspend individual fellings when concerns about the natural value of forests have arisen. Of course, this should not be the case, but the use of state forests should be exemplaryly responsible and consistent with the EU biodiversity strategy. In order to curb the dangerous decline in biodiversity, Finland, like other EU countries, must also protect all its remaining ancient and prime forests. This report and the citizens' initiative are steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u233	Thank you. — Mr Aittakumpu absent, Mr Koponen, Mr Ari absent. — Representative Simula, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u234	Mr President! The citizens' initiative to put an end to open fellings in state countries was discussed in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and we, as a committee, unanimously concluded that there is no justification for imposing an absolute ban on open felling in state countries. In practice, a ban on open felling would mean that the management of forests could not be used as a means of using regeneration felling, in which trees of the same age are harvested at the same time. There may be a dull - looking hole in the forest for the human eye, but soon the seedling and the kind of vegetation that could not survive in the forest will grow. This vegetation, on the other hand, brings various insects, birds, and other organisms into the area. Even permanent forest farming is true, but it does not fit everywhere, and the forest does not seem to grow as productively. A forest that grows productively also binds more coal. The most important thing is the whole, the use of common sense and the provision of all kinds of forest management in reasonable proportions. When there is plenty of forest here in Finland, and more and more forest is constantly growing, more than every year. I would now like to highlight some important figures so that no one has to be anxious about Finnish forest management or the forest industry. More than half of Europe’s strictly protected forests are located in Finland. No forestry measures shall be taken in these forests. The Finnish Forest Act is based on the fact that, despite the objective of forest production, biological and social aspects are also taken into account. The new forest must be planted in the old place, no matter what type of logging. The State, or Metsähallitus, has 4.8 million hectares of forest used for economic purposes, while the total forest area in Finland is about 22.8 million hectares, which is about one tenth of the total European forest area. The forest administration uses 15 different felling methods, of which only 15 per cent of the felling area is treated with the open felling method. Open fellings are made between 0.5 and 0.7 per cent of the whole forest area in Finland. On average, the size of felling holes is only about 1.4 hectares. The most common form of logging is thinning. Of all exports of goods, the forest industry accounts for over 19 per cent, so it employs a lot of Finns, either directly or indirectly, and also brings wealth on a regional basis, especially in the regions. Mr President! As I described above, this is a wide-ranging package, and although the citizens' initiative concerned only the ban on open felling in state countries, the committee stated that, if implemented, it would have an immediate impact on the prospects for forestry and on access to wood. We cannot afford our own actions to wreck our industry any more, on the contrary. The initiative gave us an even more comprehensive view in committee on the use of Finnish forests, forestry and forest protection. And, as has been said, the committee calls for an analysis of how to increase continuous education, particularly in the appropriate state forests, recreational and tourist areas, as well as along the edges of protected areas, watercourses and the above-mentioned areas of special use. With direct bans, things are less often driven in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u235	Thank you. — Representative Elo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u236	Mr President! At first, I would like to thank the civil society organisations and all signatories who have taken the initiative for an important initiative on behalf of our common national treasure and property, the Finnish forest nature. The initiative proposes a legislative amendment that would transform forest fellings in government forests into fellings for continuous farming, with certain exceptions. It is valuable that, with the initiative, open fellings have taken place in a broad public debate. As a result of the debate, better alternatives to open felling are being considered not only by the state but also by municipalities, parishes, companies and private forest owners. This initiative is extremely timely. Finland’s forest nature is in an emergency. One third of Finland's endangered species live in forests. Three out of four forest habitats are endangered. Maintaining our diverse forest nature requires a significant increase in the share of permanent farming in forest felling. In the future, continuous farming must be the dominant method of forest management. This initiative was not wasted, although it was not accepted as such by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. The committee's report and statements place heavy demands on state forest management methods as well as on Metsähallitus' revenue targets and income requirements. It is important for Parliament to monitor the implementation of the statements and to take further action if necessary. Mr President! Continuous forest management has many positive effects. It protects the diversity of our forests, combats climate change by increasing carbon stocks, protecting our waters and improving the conditions for tourism and recreational use of forests. From the point of view of the climate, continuous education is better than open felling, especially in peatlands. Forest management has a crucial impact on biodiversity. Open logging always causes the biggest disturbance to the forest ecosystem. As a result of current forestry, many species have decreased and many of the common forest species have also become endangered. Studies show that many species are more successful in the forests of continuous farming, while the forest remains covered. Mr President! There is broad public support for continuing education. According to a survey commissioned by the WWF in 2019, more than 70 per cent of Finns would limit open felling in areas where they have a particularly harmful impact on the environment. This, too, is an important criterion for replacing open fellings with more sustainable forest management in our common forests. In addition to government-owned forests, it is important that the methods of continuous farming become more common in private-owned forests. Through Metsähallitus' revenue targets and income requirements, we can direct the sustainable use of state forests. The Government has already updated the ownership policy guidelines of Metsähallitus this season and increased the share of continuous education in the state reform nature of felling from 15 to 25 per cent. This is the right way. The adoption of the opinions of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry will lead to more sustainable forestry in the state. It is necessary to halt the loss of nature and strengthen biodiversity in Finland, and it also increases the recreational values of our forests. The environmental organisations that launched the initiative call for a percentage target for continuous growing in government forests. It is natural to return to this when Parliament receives the report required by the statement on the increase in continuing education in the state countries. The report is due by the end of 22, so it will not have to be expected for a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u237	Thank you. — Representative Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u238	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the authors for stepping up the debate that is important. Forests play a key role in ensuring and strengthening biodiversity. Forests offer shelter, nutrients and substrates for many species of life. However, the illusion is that Finnish nature and forests could do well in this respect. Forest nature is in an emergency, even one third of Finland's endangered species live in forests. The logging methods have a great connection with the climate and diversity impacts and status of Finnish forests. The method of open cutting is very problematic. The method of cutting down a particular area of all trees, excluding a few tree specimens. The method easily destroys the important decaying germs, and the undergrowth of trees disappears, making it difficult to feed certain species. One of the main reasons for the threat of forest species is the reduction in the number of decayed trees. In addition, soil modification in connection with open felling will feed water and continue to release carbon into the atmosphere before the new crop begins to bind it again. Mr President! The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry decided to make two statements in line with the green objectives of the "Open cuttings in history" initiative, which would make a significant contribution to continuous education. The committee's report obliges the forestry government to increase the continuous rearing of state land and to report on the increase by the end of 22. In addition, a reduction in Metsähallitus' revenue targets and economic requirements is required. The nominal rejection of citizens' initiatives is not unusual. The great thing is that this initiative will lead to concrete follow-up measures to increase continuous farming and strengthen forest biodiversity. Mr President! In forestry, the direction must be towards continuous farming and more gentle management of forests in both state and private forests. A translation must be made of the way in which continuous education was prohibited by law until 2014. We have already updated the ownership policy guidelines of Metsähallitus and increased the share of continuous education in felling from 15% to 25% in the state's reform nature. Mr President! In spite of this, open fellings have also taken place in Metsähallitus areas this autumn, which are breaking ecological links and slowing down the restoration of the region's natural state. The fellings have been directed at the vicinity of national parks. The most recent cases are related to forest fellings in the Riuttasärvi recreational area near the Seven and Lake Hellen National Parks. The situation is quite glaring and confusing because the Ministry of the Environment has been presented to the Ministry of the Environment about the forest areas of the wilderness. This makes Metsähallitus' activities appear to be proactively cutting down forest areas that may be protected. This is a fundamental war against one's own and the citizens' sense of justice, as demonstrated by the petition of 1600 signatories against these fellings. Mr President! Instead of felling, an extension of protection should be granted to the area, which would make it possible to improve the region's natural values and attractiveness. The extension would create the largest forest protection area in Southern Finland, which would also be a significant carbon sink and warehouse and an attractive recreation area serving all of southern Finland. The committee's report will provide the basis for future forest management in the state countries, which will be the focus of which will be a report on how to increase the continuous growth of state forests in peatlands and also in hiking areas such as the Riuttas Korvea. Mr President! Just a few more words on strengthening biodiversity, recovery and overall degradation. Municipalities have obligations and municipalities must be obliged to draw up a climate plan and targets. According to Sitra’s report, 206 municipalities have already launched these voluntarily. On the other hand, there are only 64 targets for biodiversity, or only one fifth of municipalities, and I wonder whether the Nature Conservation Act, which is coming to us, could further strengthen the obligation of municipalities to protect biodiversity. There is still work to be done to restore the condition of Finnish forest nature to a decent level. This citizens' initiative gave rise to an important debate, and thanks to all the authors and signatories.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u239	Thank you. — Congressman Pitko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u240	Mr President! The winds of change blow in the attitude to open felling and forestry. Today, as many as 70 per cent of Finns take a negative view of open fellings. An increasing number of forest companies have also announced that they will break away from open fellings with certain types of forest. Today, the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry also requires continuous farming in the state forests to be increased. I think it is clear that time is passing by the current type of intensive forestry and that open fellings will increasingly be replaced in the future by continuous farming. We use forests to an increasing extent, and at the same time we know that Finland's forest environment is in an emergency. One third of Finland's endangered species live in forests, and three out of four forest habitats are endangered. Forestry is the biggest source of threat in Finland. In order to help nature, the priority is to reduce felling and increase the number of protected areas. But it is clear that these alone are not enough. Biodiversity must also be strengthened in economic forests. Economic forests can therefore have a significant impact on biodiversity while making reasonable use of them. Not all trees are cut down at a time in continuous breeding, but the forest is always covered. Studies clearly show that many species are better off in forests than open fellings when managed by continuous farming methods. For example, one of these species is a blueberry that we are all familiar with and important. Of course, continuous farming also provides better protection for the recreational use of forests, nature tourism and reindeer husbandry, as well as the conditions for Sami culture. From the point of view of the climate, continuous education is better than open felling, especially in peatlands. Amongst other things, we had a strong hearing on these aspects in the committee's extensive expert consultation. We also heard that, for the forest owner, continuous rearing can also be economically profitable, since this means that no money is spent on the care of the trout, for example. Although the majority of our forests are currently being managed by open-cut forestry methods, there is already a trend towards continuous farming. The citizens' initiative "Open cuttings into history" proposed a total ban on open fellings in state countries. I believe that this is an objective which must be pursued. Although the committee's report did not take such a radical line, we are still taking steps towards it. In the future, continuing education should be the rule, not the exception. For example, according to one study, two thirds of forests should be treated in accordance with the principles of continuous farming. There is also a place for open felling, but significantly less so than at present. The committee therefore adopted two significant statements on this report and I hope that Parliament will also succeed. The first calls on the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to investigate the increase in continuous education and to submit this report to the committee by the end of 2022. The second requires that Metsähallitus' revenue targets and income requirements are set in such a way that they do not hamper the overall sustainable use of state forests. I believe that these are good and important statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u241	Thank you. — Mr Hassi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u242	Mr President! As Mr Hopsu and Mr Pitko have said, the winds of change do indeed blow in the way forests are handled, and this report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry is an indication of this. I would therefore like to warmly thank all those who have contributed to and campaigned for this citizens' initiative. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry does not propose that the citizens' initiative be adopted as it stands, but the committee's proposal for a decision could be described as about half of the adoption of the citizens' initiative when the committee requires that there should be more continuous rearing, especially in those types of forest where open fellings are the most harmful. Experts are about in agreement that open fellings must be stopped in peat-based peat-based bogs. Many forestry companies have also announced that they will give up open fellings in swamp forests. In addition, the committee expects continuous education to be applied in recreational and tourist areas and near protected areas and waters and at the edges of these areas of special use, and that Metsähallitus' target for results should also be dimensioned in such a way that this is practically possible. It has already been pointed out in this debate that, up to 2014 for several ten years, open felling was the only method of forest management permitted by law. Fortunately, we are now getting away from this totalitarianism. Unfortunately, large forest advisory organisations still offer forest owners mainly open fellings. According to a recent survey, half of the forest owners were not even reported when forest associations advised what to do with the forests, not even told that there were alternatives other than open felling. Only one third of cases reported that continuous farming is possible, and in addition, these forestry associations even have performance targets for the trading of different drainages and others to forest owners. Mr President! Finally, I would like to correct the misleading claim made by Mr Simula that more than half of Europe's strictly protected forests are in Finland. Forest protection category 1 covering all forests,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u243	Thank you. — Mr Rantanen, Mr Piritta, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u244	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the initiative. The debate has been diverse and constructive, and it is very good that this issue is being discussed. I myself took the floor in the referral debate on this citizens' initiative almost two years ago, and in that speech I raised a few facts in relation to it and in relation to it. I have already said at the time that we must be concerned about this global deforestation, the deterioration of the state of forests and, in particular, the fact that only growing forests bind carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. The accumulation of coal in forests can only be achieved through the management of forests, and different ways of growing forests in different locations place emphasis on the diversity of forestry. To my amazement, then, in spring 2021, I noticed how my speech had been taken as one of the material of the mother tongue exam of the matriculation essays, and the Student Board notes, among other things, the following points in my speech at the time of the referral: Of course, I have not supported the citizens’ initiative but considered the current forest law good, and I have focused my speech on ‘the listeners for whom economic values, forest industries andthe competitiveness of Finland are important’. I could not further stress that these matters are still important to me. The Matriculation Examination Board has also stated that I do not deny natural values or the benefits of continuous education, but I consider open felling and continuous education as ‘alternatives, options’. I still did. The Student Board has also stressed the need for decision-making to be based on knowledge, not on emotion, andthere is therefore a large number of ‘reasonable arguments’ which call for a change in the relationship between consequences, facts,experts and actors in the sector’. It ‘calls on the This is the way in which I still want to do this work and in which I would like to emphasise this decision taken in this committee too that this initiative should not be adopted. We must justify our decision and our speech on the basis of the facts, take account of the cause—consequences and listen to the industry’s experts and actors, relying on them. It is wonderful that this committee's report is unanimous. Forest discussion is an important part of Finnish social debate, and politicians must have the courage to do so. The committee did a great deal of work in consultation with experts and decided to suggest that the share of continuous farming in government forests must continue to be increased and that forests should always be treated in the best possible way in terms of conditions and objectives. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u245	Thank you. — Representative Reijonen is absent. — — — — Congressman Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u246	Mr President! There is a citizens' initiative to end open fellings in state countries. The previous section has discussed the establishment of the Salla National Park, and in that debate I pointed out that when national parks are set up from the point of view that forests are protected, I also think that the national parks' perspective is recreational use. But in that debate I have already pointed out that Finnish forests around national parks are properly managed, so that the principles and criteria of sustainable development are met. Now that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has dealt with this citizens' initiative, the Committee has also drawn conclusions on the fact that today, in this country, the use of state forests must be overall sustainable, taking into account ecological, economic, social, cultural and climatic sustainability in a balanced way. And I would like to remind you that this has been done in this country for ages. As long as we have had the forest law in force, Finland's forests have been used in accordance with sustainable development. Well, with regard to the citizens' initiative. Now this initiative is that open fellings should be stopped on state soils. Mr President, what would happen to the Finnish mechanical wood industry? Industrial investments are underway in Northern Finland — Kainuu, Northern Ostrobothnia, Lapland. That is where sawmills are currently investing in full steam. In my municipality of residence in Kuhmo, the local sawmill company expands its operations, over 30 million invested in the last 16 months and more invested. In Kajaani, the local sawmill company invests more, and even in Northern Ostrobothnia, Junnikkala sawmill is making a brand new sawmill in Oulu. And why is this being done? Because we want to increase the construction of wood, and with these open fellings and its large, massive logwood there comes the raw material for wood construction, the sawn timber that we can do and operate in accordance with the principles of sustainable development in such a way that we take climate-friendly measures by building wood, unlike if everything were to be built only from concrete.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u247	Thank you. — Mr Lundén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Kettunen, for your excellent speech. The present citizens' initiative concerns only government forests and does not propose any legislative changes to the extent that it concerns the treatment of forests in private forests. This is a good thing. It is also good that the committee considers it important for the sustainability of forestry to be based on as comprehensive research as possible and on practical experience in forest management. As a result, I am pleased that continuous forest farming has not been carried out on a large scale in Finland for more than 60 years, nor has it been studied as much as the periodic farming using the power method. However, it can well be said that Metsähallitus' revenue targets and performance requirements should be set in such a way that they do not hamper the overall sustainable use of state forests and the use of wood in general. Mr President! Remember, too, the fact that logging is more frequent in continuous rearing than in periodic rearing. In fact, continuous rearing is likely to lead to increased harvest damage, which improves the living conditions of roots and increases the risk of destruction. In addition, continuous cover farming does not allow for cutting the cycle of disease by changing the tree species. The seasonal variation in harvesting also increases in continuous farming, which in turn can lead to an increase in the need for storage and an increase in the risk of destruction. In continuous farming, the fertilization of forests, including health fertilizer, becomes more difficult. Thus, profitability may be reduced in harvesting processes in forests, as the growing stock should be relatively sparse in order to promote natural seedlings. Mr President! As a result, I welcome the diverse use of different forest management methods in the state forests and the choice of the best method for each site and site and the rejection by Parliament of the legislative proposals contained in the citizens' initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u249	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u250	Mr President! I would like to thank the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for their wise handling during the debate on the citizens' initiative. The debate has been good, of high quality and, above all, has come to the right conclusion. If open fellings are categorically banned and move on to this constant breeding, which at least the greens seem to love more than anything else, I wonder, in particular, what the Greens are thinking about how that nature is being treated. After all, there have been many trials of continuous education in Finland since the war. During my own forest career, which lasted about a quarter of a century, 25 years, I did everything I could to repair the trail of this continuing education. The remaining forests after continuous farming were such rampages, where the growth of forests had virtually ceased. Dry fabrics usually leave the undergrowth of the tree, which does not grow anywhere. There the growth of forests is almost zero, rather than a negative one, when the damaged spruce forest rots up, does not grow anything, but merely produces carbon dioxide in the air. Peatlands have been using natural regeneration for a long time without actual open cutting. It's kind of a version of it, but with strip cutting or seed cutting, you can do the same thing effectively so that you can't give it that real open-cut name. It's a natural renewal from the very best. Representative Pitko here stated that there is no need to do trout treatment if you are doing continuous rearing. Where do you think those trees come from? I haven't seen any big log trees born in the woods at once, they'll grow up as a trout, and every one of them needs to be taken care of. At least in biology class, you should be present if you want to make such claims, or at least the lectures are a little late. Trees are growing, as we know, out of a small seedling, and if you imagine a spruce tree’s bottom, if you think there’s going to be some kind of regeneration event, you should visit the dark spruce, see what’s on the bottom. There's nothing there. There are no berries, some mushrooms grow, but nothing green. I wonder if it is an abomination to this party if there is nothing green, but it is worth going there genuinely. Mr Hassi mentioned in his speech that open felling would have been the only form of treatment in the forests at the time. That's not true. All options have always been in place, depending on the forest development situation. Of course, the forest owner chooses whether to choose renewal, thinning felling, and one option is that this time nothing will be done, the forest owners will also use that option, and this is good. I hope that such half-truths are not presented here as truths. Well, it's good after that at the coffee shop to say that I did this, but it's worth taking the facts as facts. Look at the statistics on Finnish forests. The Finnish Forest Research Institute, now Luke, unquestionably proves that over the last 50 years forest growth has been doubled and the number of forest trees has been doubled. Why have we gone to this sensible forest management? That is why, when the forests of Finland were threatened in time, when much was beaten and no new forest was born to replace them. It was then that the forest law said in clear Finnish: let the forest not be destroyed. In other words, when people talk about deforestation in Finland, that is not true. The only roof here in Helsinki is the deforestation when parks are laid down and structures made by people all over the world are built. There's that deforestation, not in the country. Mr Pitt and your partner, why do you not tell people the truth? Well, it's a way to live that too, but usually in a long run it turns out to be a very bad habit. There really is no deforestation here, forests are growing at a good rate and we need to improve our management if we want to keep this country in order, pay our taxes, pay our debts and offer people jobs. Forest management is precisely the work on which the welfare of this country has been created over the centuries, and now you are going to break this tradition. I mean, it's a good idea, but I'm a little numb. — I would like to thank Mr Piritta Ranta for the wise speech he has just made, and it is also an example for the Greens of how to do this. Kuhmo Oy would not be operating in Kuhmo making valuable export products for the world market. What, then, would be the construction of these wooden houses and wooden structures, especially those required by the Greens, if they were not allowed to cut the forests? And when you want to do that constant education, how do you do it in practice? Large forest machines run through forests and are certainly infected with all the areas where they have been moved, the root canopy that destroys the pine grove, and the result is quite certain to be a complete disaster. According to the studies of the Finnish Forest Research Institute, when you cut off the main root from the spruce, 99 percent of it is sure to become a puddle on the spruce. That log tree has been lost since then. Is this what you really want? Don't you have any responsibility for what you've done and what you've said? You present things that are not true, as the truth here in front of the Finnish Parliament. I'm a little surprised by your motivation. If we don't grow logs in this country, we'll stop building wood. And if those seedlings are not treated, then the fibre trees will also stop, and then the goal will be that we will one day replace the plastic with a renewable material, for which wood fibre is an excellent solution. Finnish industry is working today, many researchers are working on the problem with which we replace plastic. I see that's what you want to stop now. And apparently you also want to stop domestic energy production. Is it because this world will be saved by being driven to the Green people and by people and forces supported by the Greens, to get natural gas, fossil gas, taxonom on the list of renewable energies, or to the list that is considered legal energy in this Europe? It's a long way from the truth, isn't it? Can you ever find your way back to the truth again when you've already gone this far? And then the paper writes that the Greens used good speeches — I'm sure they did, I'm not going to judge the viewpoint of journalists — but the truth does have the only right value in a long run. Everything else in the long run will be lost in this world, the truth will remain. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the chairman and the members of the Committee for having done an excellent job, taking the facts as facts and letting the light shine on what is said to be the light of reason. If we go to this silly line, which the Greens especially love, that road will lead to the very great financial difficulties of this nation, and I bet when we make those cutting lists, the Greens won't want to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u251	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u252	Honorable Mr. Speaker! This has been the last time that many good, worthy speeches have been made. I would like to thank Mrs Lundén, a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, for her excellent speech and then also for Mrs Hoskose's contribution. Honorable Speaker! State forests form a significant part of Finnish national wealth, [Base Finns Group : Yes! ] Well, there have been speeches on forest management here, and Mrs Hoskonen has mentioned this seedling management, but then we must also remember that there are quite a lot of these thinnings here in Kainuu, Northern Ostrobothnia, Lapland and elsewhere in Finland, and if we do not take care of our forests, we will not make the thinnings, then we will not have these carbon sinks. And most importantly, when those thinnings are made, then let the logs grow, which is the way to get the raw material here on the side of wood construction.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u253	Thank you. — Congressman Pitko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u254	Mr President! In this Chamber, Mr Hoskonen asked how, in continuous breeding, the forest regenerates without man bringing seedlings into the forest. In the woods, the trees will come back. I can promise you that. The forest was already renewed here in the peninsula of Finland before man came to plant seedlings. That's nature. It works fine without a person, in fact even better. In continuous breeding, the tree is regenerated by natural insemination. Therefore, continuing education for forest owners can be a more economically viable option by allowing nature to carry out its own tasks and doing other work itself in the meantime. In fact, the share of logs in continuous growing can be even higher — when there was concern about wood construction. If the open fellings stop, the share of logs may be even higher in continuous growing, since in the open felling method the larger part of the obtained forest biomass is actually young fibre wood. The majority of Finnish wood goes into low-processing products. It is shipped abroad from Finland either as pulp or as wood biomass products with a very short life span. We must be honest that we are still not in the position where Finnish forestry can be, that it saves the world from plastics or fossil fuels or manufacturing methods, or that it builds our cities or houses — let alone saves health, develops medicines or fibers. At the moment, most products are very short-lived products, or we export pulp. As Members of Parliament, I personally see that we should do everything we can to increase our added value. It would bring more jobs, more euros for the economy. But it also allows smaller fellings and thus a better habitat for our forest animals and humans.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u255	Thank you. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u256	Mr President! Congressman Pitko from that forest development cycle: Then, when the heavy forest machine is used to repair the big logs required by Mr. Pitko, when the soil is damaged, as I said, there will certainly be soilings in that area after that. That's for sure. There's not even a chemical that can stop it. And then what you have just said is that there will be a new forest: it is worth remembering that even the little seedling that comes out of it will have the same disease. That disease does not stop on the already damaged tree but on all the trees in the area. It is known that my earthworming experience has not yet been able — some exceptions may exist, science may know, but in general it is not — not even a sandbrush, but it destroys the pine, the same fungus transformation. One works in the pine tree, the other in the spruce tree, and here they spread biological untruths as truth. I would remind Mr Pitko and other skeptics that it is worth sticking to the truth, however, as a requirement for the role of a representative of Parliament according to our basic law. No, people's opinions are not worth changing according to what is not true.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u261	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u262	Mr President! On this initiative to ban open fellings in state countries: There was one picture a few years ago that I could perhaps agree with in the fact that these open fellings should be banned. According to the caption, it contained state-owned forest land on an island that had been completely beaten down, and in this respect I can agree. In my opinion, it is already a risk to the safety of boaters if a state island is beaten with open cutting, in that respect I can agree with that. But otherwise, from this debate, what we have here: Yes, the landowner must be allowed to do what he wants to do with the land he owns and manage it as he wants. Well, now we're talking about the country of the state, I understand that they want to influence it here, but when we talk about the loss of nature and the loss of forests, this really is a loss of mind, which is what we should avoid here. Mr Hoskonen has made a good speech, and Mr Fox can be a little edgy again — but he does smell a bit like a man with his speeches. The forest is a carbon sink, and it also acts as a carbon sink when it is cut open, and it is being regenerated there, and yes, we must strive to obtain the highest possible value for that tree. There is talk here of a lot of wood biomass going on, the Greens use in their speeches that it is short-lived. Well, hell, it's probably short-lived if the peat's been destroyed and now they're burning wood. The kelohongs will also go there from Lapland then, they will now burn all that is the outcome of your environmental policy. It is good that wood construction is being developed in Finland. And all you can do is be amazed at the amount of information Mr Hoskosen has, and yes, you can relate to them. I don't understand it either. We're going to go with our big machines through constant breeding and then we're going to go and pick up those big trees. Every time that tree falls, it breaks a few young and smaller ones from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u265	Thank you. — Mr Kettunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u266	Mr President! There has been a long debate here, but I was forced to take one more speech just because, on the other hand, I feel a certain degree of sympathy if there has been a previous picture of the situation on the basis of this citizens' initiative which took place in the forests of the state two or three years ago when the forest law was amended. After all, when the state at one point set quite too high a profit target for Metsätalous Oy, hear the long-line forest machine drivers in the Kainuu forests came to say, "Oh, for God's sake, when the result targets are so high and the price of wood is so low, the middle-grown forest was put down even with open cutting. I would like to point out here that, under the leadership of Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Jari Leppa, these performance targets have been reduced, but at the same time, fortunately, the price of wood is also rising, so that we in the state's treasury can obtain these forest revenues from those forests by means of measures that do not need to put down the pre-grown forest. But in this debate I would now like to remind you that value growth must be based on the fact that the log is in a strong shape. There is no point in turning down forests under 70 years of age. Then, when it starts to be in its ripeness — I think Mr Hoskonen knows it, his data bank is quite extensive, I have also studied a little forestry in the field of agrologic training, but Mrs Hoskonen can still remind you at what stage the cane is in that form — it is suitable for the wood industry. But then, while we are still talking about the production of fibrewood, we have the Finnish chemical forest industry which is raising the national economy. The representative, Pitko, was still concerned about whether there should be an even higher processed product. Well, let's talk about the bulk-backing, that's the basic back. It goes to the world as a product to replace those fossil raw materials — that is, just basic pulp. Well, then the next step is the solubilization of what's going on in North Karelia at the Bathing Heights. It makes clothes that replace cotton, among other things. The product development is already in the soluble and nanocell sector. This, Mr President, and this Parliament, will certainly come in the future, thanks to high technology and product development, I hope, even to the exclusion of steel, and all this with Finnish green gold. We are the President,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u267	The 19th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. I'm opening a conversation. — Congressman Pitko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u268	Mr President! Indeed, the legislation on the identification and registration of animals is being passed here, and it is proposed to extend the scope of this identification and registration of animals necessary to ensure the welfare of pet animals. Indeed, this legislation allows for the introduction of a register of pet animals, but this introduction will be decided separately by a ministerial decree, and I am pleased that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has said that a register of dogs will be introduced in the first instance and also a register of cats at a later stage. Here I would like to express the hope that this register of cats will not be delayed, but will be available as soon as possible. This compulsory identification and registration can contribute to the owner’s responsibility for his pet and speed up the return of the found animal to his owner and prevent puppy production and illegal importation of pets. In particular for cats, it would be important to introduce this register in a timely manner, as it would increase the threshold for the rejection of cats, which is currently a very big problem. According to expert consultations, it would reduce the number of rejected cats. It would also help find cats to end up back to their owners and to facilitate their intervention in cat populations. It would also likely increase the appreciation of cats as a pet that every cat deserves. This Regulation could also better address serious animal welfare problems in the identification and registration of cats. I hope that this law and the regulations it makes possible for the register of cats and dogs will soon be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u269	Thank you. — And Mr Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u270	Mr President! I too wanted to raise the issue of a citizens' initiative for cat crisis management in this debate. Yes, it is good that the dog register has been promised and that it will be made available from 23 C.E. It is estimated that at least 20,000 cats per year will be rejected in Finland, but there is no comprehensive register of cats imported into found animals houses. Uncut, free - outdoor cats produce cat populations that are easily outnumbered. The number of free cat populations is difficult to estimate. Veterinarians estimate that about fifteen thousand cats are available. Population cats are often inbred, suffering from numerous health problems, illnesses, hunger, and cold. And the cat is not part of Finland's nature, but is a threat to diverse nature. According to a Canadian survey, pet cats killed 100 to 350 million birds a year in Canada. The World Wildlife Organization (IUCN) has identified the cat as one of the 100 most harmful species in the world. In Finland, the cat that receives all its food from nature is also classified as a harmful alien species. Free cat populations are hard to deal with. The management of populations is laborious and costly and often on the shoulders of volunteers at the moment. And once the cats are half wild, domestication is demanding, and investing in a new home requires work and is often difficult. The current legislation does not yet allow for timely intervention in the uncontrolled reproduction of the population. It would be very important to get this register of cats started as soon as possible. The identification of the microchip is a reliable and functional way to identify the cat and find its owner. Making identification and registration mandatory would contribute to the safe and rapid return of finders to their owners. At present, a large proportion of recovered cats do not return to their owners. Similarly, such registration would prevent animal welfare offences and such dark animal trade. In other words, a warm recommendation to it and I also thank you for taking a proactive approach to the introduction of the register of cats in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u271	The 20th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Conversation. — Presentation of the matter, Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u272	Thank you, Mr President. Year after year, the number of payment default entries in Finland has continued to grow. In just over ten years, their number has increased by 100,000, which means that nearly 400,000 Finns now have a default mark. We all share the view that a number of preventive measures are needed to reverse this gloomy development of citizens' economic difficulties. However, there is also reason to recognise the other side of the coin, which is unfortunately gloomy for many Finns. The darker side of the coin obliges parliamentarians to find ways of improving the situation of citizens who are already in deep trouble. In their case, it is no longer helpful for the working groups to start their work, but they will later present possible ways that might be put in place in the future. Preventive action is essential to halt the dangerous development that society sees. On the other hand, acute action is desperately needed for those Finns to whom these preventive measures come as a result of politicians' indecisiveness without helping too late. Mr President! For a long time, citizens and many organisations have called for the retention periods for default marking to be reduced. However, the demands have been ignored time and time again and concrete action has been awaited. Even in the current government programme, there is a record of the retention period for default marking, which is linked to the implementation of a positive credit register. It's been a long time, but it's finally coming along. A positive credit register is planned to be introduced in 2024, but a reduction in the retention period for default marking has been envisaged before this. The matter is currently under discussion and many citizens also expect it to come into force as soon as possible. Although there are sometimes great difficulties with the present government in finding projects to support the opposition here, I would like to warmly welcome both of these objectives in this case. I very much hope that they will actually be brought forward and planned with a more rapid timetable. The immediate elimination of default marking after the payment of the debt penalty also requires more extensive reforms of our system. We cannot encourage citizens in need to be guided into temporarily cleaning up credit data with unsustainable financial solutions. It would therefore be a positive credit register and the individual retention of labels for each payment arrears that would be necessary from this point of view. I started to promote this initiative of my own a long time ago by talking extensively with experts in various fields, and I left it last year. Even if the initiative is to be discussed in the Chamber only now, it is no less topical at the moment. The problems are still present and action is needed to solve the problem mountain of debt. Mr President! In addition to this, the prolonged corona crisis will further increase the need for prompt action, as many citizens have, as a result, come into an extremely difficult situation without having been able to influence it. Payments have been rolled, but jobs or livelihoods have been closed for many. When I first discussed the issue of default marking with experts, as a result of these discussions, I sought to form a first step solution here to a legal amendment that would help the citizens who have received default marking. At the same time, however, it should avoid the dangers that could arise from the immediate elimination of default marking without a wider system change. The aim was also to ensure that as many MPs as possible could stand behind it, regardless of party boundaries. This is because it would be extremely important to bring about a change immediately and not to wait for the next regime. In this bill, I proposed that the retention period for default marking should be reduced from at least two years to a maximum of six months for those who have already fulfilled their obligations. This would be a sufficient time to show, for example, financial institutions or, for example, landlords that the person’s household is on a sufficiently solid basis and that the rents would be paid on time. On the other hand, it would also guide the failure marking to resolve the situation in a sustainable way and would not fall into an emergency solution, such as a quick-up, which would eventually make the situation even worse. Even if a shorter retention period is to be sought and supported, these reforms would have long been needed, regardless of the timetable for wider reforms. Mr President! When I started drafting this bill a couple of years ago, it was still quiet in the government’s direction. There too has now been a wake-up call to this intolerable situation, and at the latest the consequences of the corona crisis put the brakes on and the much-needed proposal to shorten payment default marking was put to the House. The reduction of the retention period for default marking will make it easier for citizens who have already fulfilled their obligations in a long-awaited manner. Under the current law, the payment default marking will remain a burden for the citizen for at least two years, even if he manages his obligations immediately after the marking. For two years, it will therefore be difficult to obtain a rental dwelling, a telephone line or, for example, insurance. That is an unreasonable price to pay for having made a mistake that has already been paid by the financial consequences, including interest. Our present system leads to absurd situations that show how necessary immediate reforms would be. A small entrepreneur recently contacted and reported on the situation caused by these excessively long retention periods for default marking. He had received a payment default marking when he started his business on a bill that had been ignored by the network. However, the invoice was paid as soon as it became apparent, but the default marking remained. However, business was managed and it would be necessary to obtain a diesel refuelling card for the freight transport company, taking into account the fact that transport is often carried out only with a small delay. However, it is not possible to obtain a refuelling card for this small business, because in this case the default marking resulting from the damage prevents this, and the fuel card is not available even in a moment, but only much, much later. Without the card, we should hold on until the default marking is finally removed. Although in this case it was a citizen who started a business, the same problems are in different forms trapped by many individuals. This example shows in concrete terms this problem, which is based on the excessiveness of our current system. In this case, it was also an accident, but even if there was another example of an incorrect decision in the middle of a crisis, for example, it does not make our system any better. Mr President! The system should encourage the obligation to be dealt with as quickly as possible, and then the day-to-day, work or business can be run without undue inconvenience. This is not the case, and the consequences of this are reflected not only in the person who has received the default mark but also in the well-being of society as a whole. From time to time, you will hear the argument that the default labels are self-inflicted and must be kept as some kind of deterrent. If they were shortened, there would be an argument based on the horror of how this would lead to reckless financial management and a further increase in the number of entries. However, I would urge everyone to consider the situation in their own right. How many money or decisions would really be guided by whether the retention period for the default marking is longer or slightly shorter? No matter how long it takes, no one would want it to fit in. I doubt anyone would be out of control considering that you can now not pay the bill, given the shorter retention period for the resulting default marking. Where its effects are to be seen would only be in a situation where, for one reason or another, labelling has already been established. This means that the retention period plays a very important role in how it limits life and how it is perceived as encouraging to deal with the consequences of the label. These are issues that could be affected by a simple change without the need for long-term clarifications and the construction of a wider reform gear. In Finland, which is struggling with debt problems, there is a need for them too, but the need is equally severe for immediate solutions. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u273	Thank you for the introduction. — Representative Reijonen is absent. — Congressman Mäkynen, Jukka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u274	Thank you, Mr President. The abolition of the default marking six months after the payment of the debt must be supported by a change of law that will make society more merciful to the debt-paying citizen. For young people in particular, the payment default marking is currently a long-term burden. For example, in a situation where a young person who has received a default notice has received a study or job from a foreign municipality, it may be impossible to accept a job or a place of study, as the default marking may prevent receiving a rental dwelling. For example, if a young person has paid his or her debts in one year for receiving a default mark, today the default mark remains for another year. This is not reasonable for those who have done their debt. The status of debtors should be improved, and legislation should encourage the payment of debts, not create a long-term default marking for those who have already paid their debts. I support Mr Tynkkysen's bill and thank you for his excellent introduction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u275	Thank you. — Ledamot Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u276	Tack, ärade talman! I would also like to thank Mr Mäky and Mr Tynky for their excellent contributions. I myself worked in the legal department of the bank almost 20 years ago, and there, if you could get to know this problem of default. As far back as last season, more than 100 names were collected to change this issue, as was the case during this period. Now we're finally getting somewhere, so that's what we're talking about. And this is one of those things that has very well united us all across party boundaries. It may be that we may not even realize the positive dynamic effect of suddenly creating hope for 400,000 people. In a way, it may be that many of its hopes have already been lost, but the fact that if you clean the table, you will be able to restart within a reasonable time, does create motivation. As Mr Tynkkynen's speech has well highlighted all the difficulties that result from this, everyone can imagine for their part if there is no mobile phone subscription or insurance or, necessarily, even a rental dwelling, what is being done. I just wanted to thank you for these good speeches and, finally, this matter is progressing in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u277	The 21st item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. I'm opening a conversation. — Presentation, Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u278	Thank you, Mr President. When I started the work of a congressman, it was clear to me that there was plenty to fix in our country. When you read messages from people from both young and older on a daily basis, or when you meet citizens in larger and smaller localities, this is even clearer than before. One such aspect is the huge increase in the number of different economic problems faced by citizens. That is why, from the very beginning of my parliamentary career, I have wanted to address the shortcomings that this whole package contains, and I have put forward a number of corrective measures. In Finland, the number of debt and economic problems has been allowed to swell so that it should not be possible in a well-being society. As a Member of Parliament, it has become even more clear, both from the legal point of view and from the point of view of the public and a number of experts, how large the whole is being discussed. The experiences shared by citizens who are struggling with debt problems stop but also provide valuable information on what we should do in our society to remedy the situation. The effects of debt problems and many other economic problems extend throughout society and there is no single, crucial miracle cure. A number of corrective measures are needed to permanently change the course. Mr President! When you discuss debt problems with citizens or with experts seeking solutions, one key hope emerges time and again to prevent economic problems from arising. The message of citizens and experts is clear: the level of competence of citizens in economic matters should be improved. Economics should be learnt in a diverse way from a young age and should be given sufficient time, because it is a matter of great importance for life. Economic decisions in both good and bad often determine the course of our lives decisively, whether we like it or not. Mistakes in youth are often very far - reaching. They can affect, for example, whether you later get into your dream profession, whether you get to have a home for your family or, for example, what kind of hobbies you can carry out for your children. In the worst case scenario, bad economic solutions result in an unstoppable, bottom-up cycle, which can make all of these seem very distant. Unfortunately, it is a reality for many citizens when it takes all the mental and financial resources to survive day after day and get food on the table. It would be desirable for everyone to avoid these problems even before they can form. An effective way to achieve this would be to invest in comprehensive economic education in schools. The current, more superficial treatment of economic matters, for example in social studies, does not give our young people the skills to deal with the decisions we all face in our own economy. Mr President! In fact, many people who get into financial difficulties only learn the necessary economic skills hard when they have already developed and are looking for solutions in a time of need. Understandably, then, it comes to the idea that if only this had been known before, so many troubles would have been avoided. Understandably, tax companies, loan interest, housing savings or, for example, fraudulent probability calculations hidden by slot machines do not seem timely or very interesting in a young person’s life. At the same time, however, social media is full of celebrities marketing instant loans and game companies’ designs celebrating gambling profits. It creates an unfortunately opportune platform for blurred reality and flawed economic skills that can at worst destroy many lives. We are making these important economic decisions throughout our lives, so why not also study them in time? When many young people say on the school bench, in their own loathsome subject, that ‘I need to live’, at least in economics, this should not be their place. Regardless of future studies, occupations or other life choices, economic skills are needed every day for all of us. If we are content to say that those interest rates are being practiced in mathematics or that taxes, for example, are being dealt with in social studies, then we are far behind. Mr President! It is not enough to deal with economic matters in the context of another subject, where economic matters are always sidelined. On the other hand, economic matters should be shown clearly in the curriculum, for economic matters are not sidelined in our lives — but vice versa. Even less so, when the collection agencies issue invoices, the credit data have gone and the debt of enforcement is increasing. The default marking is currently available to some 400,000 Finns. Interest-rate bills and individual bank visits by schoolchildren were certainly sufficient at a time when the loan money was only received from the bank, credit cards were not known, and the consumption decision required that the banknotes be drawn into the circulation where the desired product was sold. These methods of teaching are, of course, still timely and necessary, but they are not sufficient on their own. Education requires a change that corresponds to the size of the change that society and young people have encountered: cash is scarcely used, money moves by scanning evidence or flashing a card, a product can be ordered online for hire, and if not enough, an unsecured quick payment can be obtained with a couple of clicks. No more clicks are required either to check in to online casinos, where only the sky and access to instant chats is the limit to the characteristics that are lost. Nor is there any reason to underestimate the importance of home education in economic learning. However, it is necessary to remember that not all parents have the opportunity to provide the kind of skills that a young person would need to support. If the parent’s own financial management is at fault, the child’s example is often in line with it. How could a young person be required from the age of 18 to make reasonable financial decisions if they have not been made at home, let alone taught? In the worst case scenario, even the child’s own savings have been reduced as a result of parental gambling or substance abuse addiction. We cannot place responsibility for teaching economics solely on the responsibility of the homes; we are not doing so in any other important area of learning. All young people must be provided with adequate keys to managing their own household right from the start of their lives, regardless of the home background. With this bill, I propose that the subject of economic knowledge be added to basic education as a common subject for all. In the future, all subjects to be taught would be mother tongue and literature, another domestic language, foreign languages, environmental doctrine, health information, religion or philosophy, history, social sciences, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, geography, physical education, music, visual arts, crafts, household and now, in addition to these, economic skills. I wonder if someone claims that financial skills are not part of this category. Instead, we should now ask why it is not there yet. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u279	Thank you. — And Mr Mäkynen, Jukka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u280	Thank you, Mr President. The subject of economic skills should definitely be added to the curricula of comprehensive schools. After all, the fact is that many young people have fallen into debt spirals and the default marking makes it much more difficult to obtain different things. It is important to curb people's indebtedness in the future. In the long run, the subject of economic skills in comprehensive school would reduce the indebtedness of Finns when responsible financial management became familiar at an early age. According to the 2018 Young People's Economic Skills Survey, 90% of young people believe that school should teach economic skills, and only one fifth of young people felt that they had sufficient financial skills from school. According to this study, teachers are also concerned about young people's poor economic skills. It is therefore clear that there is a real need for the legislative initiative now under discussion. I support this bill by Mr Tynkkyse.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u281	Thank you. — Representative Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u282	Mr President! Thank you for this important and good lifting of financial skills and knowledge in Finland. The need has certainly been observed, and I was looking at those curricula for both basic education and upper secondary school education, and there this financial information belongs to these multidisciplinary study modules. That is, certainly from the time we have gone to school, the curricula have been renewed and the knowledge of financial information and the whole has been added there. Well, it would certainly require us to take greater account of this teaching of economic information and the methods that apply to it in teacher training, especially in continuing education, as part of the everyday life of the school, for example in mathematics, history or social studies. I think this will lower the threshold to go on to teach these skills. I know that the organization field is very active here. Among other things, we have different entrepreneurship training carried out by organisations, and this has been supported from here in Parliament. I myself remember from my own hobby years such an interesting scouting task that at night in the forest tent a tax return was received on our hands, and then it was scored how well one guard could fill it with the income information given. Well, the tax return does not have to be completed at the moment, but this type of task may well be integrated into very different contexts. For example, at school household classes have very great opportunities for teaching this kind of very practical financial competence, and a warm encouragement that teachers in this schools take hold.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u283	Thank you. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, in this bill, I would like that economic skills to be introduced from the very beginning of basic education as their own subject, clear own lessons. And we have a huge variety of things that should be brought to this in concrete terms, which would then be done through the lesson, and perhaps not just how different things are sprinkled on the second stage. Indeed, it can also be thought from the point of view of such deprived families that their children do not have the same opportunities to accumulate, for example, wealth in the future, because of the fact that certain information has not come. I myself come from a very low - income family, and I could give many different examples of how I, when I was younger, thought how this life was going to go. From the very beginning that some acquisition of an owner-occupied dwelling was not an option of any kind, it was quite clear that the whole life was going to live in a rental dwelling. Just for what it learned from home. Or, for example, the culture of working. If you have lived with your own parents on social welfare benefits and so on, as has been the case with me, and then as a child, when it has been said that ‘you should go on living, but you will see something after a summer’. And then, as a child, you yourself thought, ‘ Why should you go to work now when you can be like that? ’ I mean, these are the starting points. Or, for example, when it comes to trying — it has never been an option of any kind. It has not really been encouraged. But this has not been the case, for example, in our schools, nor at present, for example, in the second degree, but trying is still a little demonized. But there are many reasons why this kind of subject is a very own subject from basic education onwards should be brought to schools. I believe that it would also make society equal. And then the fact that we talk a lot about this sort of thing — what the term is now, the Greens and the Left usually talk about it more. Is it the ‘inheritance ofovergenerationpoverty’ or a poorparticipation? This initiative would also have a clear impact on this issue. And now only very late, in fact only here in Parliament, I realized that once and for all we have to start actually getting an owner-occupied dwelling, but never before was that an option. I didn't even think of going through the university, so there's not enough of this. But thank you, Mr Mäkynen, for really good speech and for bringing out these facts. Good statistics were there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u285	The 22nd item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Presentation, Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u286	Thank you, Mr President. When I, as a Member of Parliament, have raised the concerns of Finns struggling with debt problems and presented concrete solutions to remedy the current situation, citizens have given a huge amount of positive feedback. From a broader point of view, this enormous number of messages shows how many of these indebtedness concerns affect and how important they are for the lives of many citizens. On the other hand, it also shows the extent to which there are and are not sufficiently addressed shortcomings to be corrected in this context in our country. Even if it does not actually get into the spiral of debt problems, a huge number of Finns face these same problems in one way or another. The family’s well - being is affected by the debt problems of a loved one. Even if, at best, the financial impact would be within the debtor’s own carrying capacity, there is talk of enormous psychological burdens. Their effects therefore go much further than just the last line of the statement. In view of this extension to those close to debt problems, a very large number of citizens, whose daily debt problems overshadow, are being talked about. Mr President! One of the most important things from the point of view of this whole is enforcement and practices within it. When I recently asked citizens to send out suggestions on what matters should be corrected in Finland in relation to debt problems, problems related to enforcement were raised time and time again. There was a huge number of good suggestions — thanks to everyone — and I put them up in the table. It was quite striking how the enforcement proposals were repeated over and over again. A total of 179 amendments had been tabled at that stage, of which almost a quarter, a total of 41 different proposals, related to the development of enforcement. Most of them raised the issue of a reasonable proportion of the protection of enforcement. It is no surprise that even in this survey, the problem of enforcement became so important. Indeed, more and more Finns are faced with enforcement and the problems it contains. In the course of 2020, the recovery measures were carried out on a total of nearly 570,000 debtors. The number has been increasing for years. When the debt is transferred to enforcement, the debtor’s salary will begin to be paid out of the proportion by which the enforcement debt is reduced. When talking about the fairness of enforcement practices, you can look at the matter from different perspectives. Is enforcement intended to serve as a punishment for the citizen, or is it primarily intended to get the debt paid? However, as a mere punishment, enforcement is a rather inappropriate system. It is not automatically that the debtor has deliberately, or even negligently, fallen into that situation. In other words, enforcement cannot serve as a punishment system. In Finland, different systems are responsible for penalties, but enforcement should not be one of them. What are the incentives to raise the income to pay the debt if the debtor is unable to provide himself with it and the debt mountain only increases its interest rate? Then society will drive the debtor to surrender, and even in this case the enforcement does not work as intended. Consequently, enforcement should primarily be developed in such a way that, whatever the cause of the enforcement or the amount of the debt, payment of the debt, but also the involvement of the debtor in society, would be sought. Even if the enforcement has been carried out as a result of its own bad choices, should it not then be pursued that the debt is paid but that the debtor is not shown to be the only alternative to punching the brush in the sand? Too strict enforcement does not contribute to the payment of debt, nor does it encourage the debtor to seek employment. In addition to these, it drives the debtor out of society, which is not in anyone’s interest. So severe foreclosure punishes the debtor himself but also the rest of society at the same time. Mr President! From this point of view, the level of protection of enforcement by legislators is an important factor in the effectiveness of enforcement. In other words, the protective part of enforcement is that part of the salary that cannot be enforced. The amount of pay that exceeds the protection rate depends on the size of the salary and, for example, on whether the debtor is dependent on the maintenance of children. If the debtor has no dependants, the amount of protection is currently EUR 22,71 per day. Each person dependent on the debtor’s livelihood increases the protection rate by EUR 8 and 15 cents per day. If the debtor is dependent only on himself, that means that in the calendar month the protection rate is EUR 681.3. If the debtor earns less than EUR 681.3 per month net, no euro will be paid out of his salary. If, however, the salary is higher than this, the facsimile procedure will begin immediately. For example, EUR 145.8 of the monthly income of EUR 900 will be liquidated. For example, if the salary is EUR 1380, EUR 460 will be liquidated. It is yet to be seen how forcefully the effects of the interest rate will eventually be reflected in the figures on enforcement. However, when looking at Statistics Finland’s data for 2018, there are worrying facts about them. In 2018, more than one-fifth of the enforcement debtors were unemployed, while at the same time the share of the total population was just over 5 per cent — that is, one-fifth and 5 per cent. However, those who were in enforcement were mostly of working age. The low level of education of debtors was also highlighted in the statistics compared with the rest of the population. Thus, in the employment stakes, we should also look at this large number of Finns who would have the capacity and desire to work but who are not encouraged to work by our system. If our system excludes our working-age, capable and willing citizens from society and working life, the decision-makers can only blame themselves. That is why I would argue that this incentive trap of enforcement should be addressed. With this bill, I would like to propose a clear level increase in the percentage of enforcement protection, which would bring it up to EUR 900 per month. An increase in the protection rate would not automatically mean that the debts would not be reduced as before. On the contrary, it would encourage work better than at present, and it would also allow debt to be reduced more quickly. It would be in the interests of both the debtor, the recipient and the society to finally pay the debt. It would also be in everyone’s interest not to drive the debtor into a situation from which he has no way out. Even after the increase in the percentage of protection, enforcement would certainly not appear to any citizen in such a way that he would like to become a client. The talk of the debtor getting away with it is unfounded. The financial and mental burden of enforcement is so great that you want to avoid it to the last, no matter what kind of incisions were made in the protective section. As legislators, however, we must ensure that this burden experienced by the debtor is not further increased in such a way that the citizen is at an impasse in every way. Regardless of party boundaries or regardless of each's economic policy thinking, everyone will certainly sign up to the objectives that work should be encouraged and that no one would be excluded from society. This change would make it possible to promote both these objectives. It could improve the situation of vulnerable citizens and, at the same time, implement employment measures in practice. There would be a need for concrete action by the decision-makers on both of these issues, and that would be exactly what this would be like. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u287	Thank you. — Congressman Mäkynen, Jukka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u288	Thank you, Mr President. The Finnish law guarantees the so-called protective part for each person subject to enforcement. This means that, as Mr Tynkkynen has already said in his excellent speech, a single and unsolicited debtor must be left with EUR 681 and 30 cents per month after enforcement. The amount is EUR 22 71 cents per day and the amount of the protection component is not affected by the debtor’s own income. It is clear that the current protection component for enforcement is too low and thus does not encourage the unemployed person to take up work. As mentioned in the bill, most enforcement officers are persons of working age, and raising the protective part of enforcement creates an incentive to accept work. In its opinions, the Centre for the Unemployed has stressed the need to increase the coverage of enforcement to EUR 900, as proposed in this bill. Increasing the share of protection is a concrete way to increase the employment rate in Finland. The bill is very welcome and I also support it. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u289	Congressman Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u290	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Mäky again for this supportive speech. As we see, there are in fact a huge number of concrete legislative changes, which would enable us to help people in debt and which would enable us to increase employment in Finland. For example, this increase in the protective part: it really does mean that a person wants to work because it actually makes sense. And it seems a little crazy to me that we have such clear and, in fact, legally simple things that we could change, which would have a huge impact, but we have not done them. And it is a great thing today that I will be able to make these four different concrete proposals in order to prevent indebtedness for my part — and the other Members have made a huge number of these proposals. In fact, it is probably time to march into the toilet, namely that the last bill is now coming to the table. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u291	The 23rd item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in relation to the scheduled items. — I will open the debate. Presentation, Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u292	Thank you, Mr President. Debt arrangement means an arrangement that is always the last option to resolve the situation of the debtor. The debt arrangement cannot be achieved on a light basis, as the debt arrangement provides for a certain length of payment programme, with which part of the debt can be forgiven. The debt arrangement can therefore be seen as a way out of a situation which is otherwise impossible for the debtor. Its primary purpose is not to get the entire debt mountain paid but to find all the facts, taking into account the humane solution to the situation and to enable the debtor to continue his life. Since the debt arrangement is quite robust and last-hand option, a wide range of examination criteria have been set in order to achieve it. The situation of the debtor is always examined as a whole, and an individual element does not necessarily overturn the possibility of a debt arrangement if the right considers the entity otherwise to be in favour of access to the debt arrangement. Access to the arrangement requires that the debtor is unable to pay his debts and that there is no correction to the situation. An acceptable reason for insolvency can be considered to be a factor that the debtor himself could not have had an impact on, such as sickness or unemployment. Mr President! Insolvency can also be attributed to the fact that the debt mountain is disproportionate to the debtor’s ability to pay. In addition, it is also required that the debtor has first sought settlement with the creditors. There are a number of reasons why access to the debt facility may be prevented or prevented from interacting. A single obstacle does not automatically mean the impossibility of a debt arrangement, but there should be strong reasons for granting a debt arrangement. For example, it is considered to be an obstacle if it is possible to cope with debts by selling assets, reducing expenditure or increasing income. If, within a reasonable period of time, a claim is covered by pay-out measures, that is also an obstacle to entering into a debt arrangement. Moreover, if insolvency is considered temporary, for example because of studies or temporary unemployment, this will also become a barrier to the arrangement of debt. The most common obstacle criterion is carelessness, which can be found, for example, in a case where the creditor has been taken aware of the fact that he is never able to repay them. Even if there is an obstacle to the arrangement, the debtor himself may have an essential influence on the access to the arrangement. Even if indebtedness has recently been caused by consumer credit, a later permanent correction in life may be more significant. The chances of getting into a debt arrangement are substantially improved if you have managed to manage your money, make the bills on time, go to work, the debt is reduced and the debt cycle has been cut off. On the other hand, if the debtor does his financial affairs recklessly and does not demonstrate the ability to exercise his or her posture, the conditions for the arrangement are very much non-existent. From the point of view of general morals, it is quite understandable that the partial remission of debts by means of a debt arrangement requires the debtor to have his life back on track and has also done things for him. If reckless indebtedness continues without a desire to correct the situation, then you should not be forgiven. The criteria for getting into a debt arrangement can be seen as a means of finding among those who have fallen into debt problems those who are in a situation that is completely impossible from the point of view of debt repayment. Properly defined criteria should still be used to identify those who have demonstrated the ability to control their lives after previous wrong decisions or unfortunate incidents. It is therefore up to the legislators to ensure that these means are those which pick up these very citizens. This will result in better end-outturns for society and for all individual parties. If persons in such a situation are excluded from the debt arrangement, then there is a place for correction in the criteria. If the threshold had been set too low, many citizens would certainly see a moral problem and would not consider this acceptable. In addition, this could lead to reckless debt for some. However, if the threshold for the debt arrangement is kept too high, many citizens will end up in a situation where there is no way out. This will sooner or later be reflected in the fact that society will eventually also play the role of the payer. In the worst case scenario, the crushing of the debt mountain is also reflected in the loss of lives, of which there are already far too many examples in our country. Mr President! A few years ago, when the legislation on debt arrangements was intended to be corrected, especially in order to facilitate access to the debt regime for young people, the requirement for the length of the unemployment period was lowered. In the past, temporary unemployment was considered to be an obstacle to debt settlement if unemployment had lasted for less than two years. This requirement was therefore moderated and the current legislation requires a period of 18 months of unemployment. When you look at it from a young person’s point of view, this too is an unreasonable requirement. One of the most worrying phenomena in our society is the exclusion of young people. In order to address this problem, all the measures in place should be taken and new solutions should be actively sought, both in legislation and in other sectors. If we think of a young person who has been continuously unemployed for 18 months, there is a huge risk of irreversible social exclusion. Adding to this the fact that this young person has had an insurmountable debt burden for years will make the starting point even worse. In the life of a young adult, 18 months is a very long time, especially if it is spent in a situation completely outside the labour market and in an unreasonably difficult situation. Mr President! With this legislative initiative, I would like to address this problem and make our system more humane. By means of a bill, I propose an amendment to the individual’s law on the arrangement of debts, which would reduce the unemployment requirement by six months. Thus, with the amendment of the law, unemployment would not be considered temporary if the period of unemployment has lasted for more than a year. In the case of many citizens, and especially young people, this small change could be crucial. Although access to the debt arrangement is always considered as a whole, the whole is also made up of individual factors. So there are always cases at the border where one issue may eventually be resolved in one direction or another. It is therefore quite possible to end up in a situation where a debt arrangement might otherwise be granted, but the one-year period of unemployment is considered to be a decisive step in the direction of a negative decision. If we look again in six months, it may be too late. Every day may be a battle in these situations. A negative decision and invitation to come again after six months may therefore be those who permanently cut off the camel’s back. Since this is precisely the case as a whole, it would not undermine the nature of our system if the individual criterion were reasonable. In the future, we would not be able to enter into a debt arrangement if we were not prepared to put things in order and the debt mountain had grown as a result of a completely reckless activity. In a system based on humanity, this small change would therefore be quite reasonable. The debt arrangement is intended to provide a solution to excessive situations. Therefore, even the criteria for access to it should not be unreasonable. And now, Mr President, in this plenary session I have presented these four different legislative initiatives which I have drawn up specifically to stop this debt, to help people in this matter. We must be aware that this is one of the biggest problems in Finnish society, not only economically, but also in terms of the mental burden these hundreds of thousands bear on their shoulders every single day and how life does not seem worth living. All the time, in the back of the head, the thought of how the economy has been wasted and how to get up. All these proposals are freely available to the government, and I hope that they will go to Minister Henriksson's property, so that they can be caught and promoted. These are ideologically very neutral, i.e. very practical initiatives. Thank you and say hello to everyone who gave me these ideas so I could make them legal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u293	Thank you. — Congressman Mäkynen, Jukka, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u294	Thank you, Mr President. The debt settlement must be achieved on a faster schedule than is currently the case. The advantage of the arrangement is that the debtor is forgiven for part of his debts when he completes the payment programme for the individual’s debt arrangement. In general, the debt arrangement is only available once, and such an opportunity must be offered more quickly so that young people, in particular, are able to deal with their debt earlier than at present and do not end up in a cycle of debt and unemployment for years. I would also like to highlight the role of the light entrepreneur as a client of the enforcement. The citizen contacted me and pointed out that: The enforcement body was unable to provide him with payment arrangements in a situation where the light entrepreneur himself had provided the necessary documents to the enforcement body, and those documents showed that the enforcement had already been illegal for four months. I asked you a written question. In reply to my written question, the Minister of Justice stated that dealings with the enforcement inspector must take place promptly and in accordance with the principle of good administration. In this context, it should be pointed out that there are many debtors in Finland whose debt is not always handled properly by the enforcement agency. Finland must improve the legal security of debtors and speed up access to different payment arrangements and debt arrangements. Mr President! I support this bill by Mr Tynkkyse. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u295	Thank you. — Mr Tynkkynen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u296	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you, Mr Mäkynen, for your support and also for these new points of view. In conclusion, I would like to send a message to all the citizens who, through the Parliament's website or the Yle Arena, think of any ideas or ideas you might have in mind here in Parliament as a solution to this whole indebtedness, new ideas, so boldly those ideas but to come. For example, all four legislative initiatives that we have dealt with here have come directly from you, and I would like to thank you very much for them. Here in Parliament, we can intervene and we can start to bring in completely new ideas, which will then, at some rate, be submitted to the government during the forthcoming parliamentary term, but of course it is possible for the government, if it so wishes, to intervene earlier. But thank you to all those who have brought these ideas that they can be promoted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u297	The 24th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Presentation, Mr Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u298	Mr President! In connection with the quality of Finnish education and good results, we often talk about equality of opportunity: how our comprehensive school system provides almost equal opportunities for everyone in life. It is regrettable to note that equality of opportunity in Finnish society today is only a dream for many people. On the eve of the start of comprehensive school, the differences in skills between children are so great that it is not possible to bridge them with existing resources, and legislation could also provide stronger support. One of the biggest challenges facing Finland has been to consider children with different linguistic and cultural backgrounds as learners. Although the learning outcomes of Finns in general are good, there is a difference in the knowledge and learning outcomes of children speaking Finnish or Swedish as their mother tongue and speaking foreign languages, which is exceptionally large, even for so-called second generation immigrants. According to the Pisa results, children of families who have moved to Finland are part of the subjects almost two years behind the knowledge of the majority of the population, including after a long school journey. These learning differences are still among the largest in Europe. Mr President! Preparatory education for basic education is intended for students whose Finnish or Swedish skills and other abilities are insufficient to study in a group of pre-school or basic education. Preparatory education currently corresponds to a year’s syllabus and the municipality is not obliged to organise preparatory education for basic education. Of course, the recommendation is. In 2019 2845 pupils participated in preparatory education for basic education. The share of foreign-language pupils in basic education has been increasing. In 2019, 7.7 per cent of children of basic education age spoke other words than Finnish, Swedish or Sami as their mother tongue. At present, students are in an unequal position depending on their place of residence as to whether or not they receive preparatory education. In order to ensure regional equality, it would be important to amend the legislation so that municipalities have an obligation to provide preparatory education to those in need. Many preparatory education also moves too quickly to basic education without adequate support for the class, even though the student has not made sufficient linguistic progress to study in a large group only in accordance with the curriculum for general education. In such a situation, learning and knowledge of the student are put at risk. If there are several pupils in the class who know very little Finnish or Swedish, it is quite impossible for the teacher to guarantee quality education for all pupils. For this reason, the maximum duration of preparatory education should be defined as two years instead of one year, the latter of which would, however, be recommended to be implemented as integrated education in the basic education category with adequate support measures. The number of pupils in the preparatory classes may be high. The Finnish National Board of Education recommends between 8 and 10 pupils, but this does not always happen, and the pupils are of different ages in the same group. In some municipalities and schools, pupils in the preparatory class are integrated directly into the groups of basic education without sufficient Finnish or Swedish as a second language teaching teacher — i.e. the S2 teacher — or the teacher of preparatory education. It is therefore necessary to clarify the Basic Education Act in so far as it provides for a more precise definition of the formation and maximum size of teaching groups and the ways in which education is organised in a class or in an integrated way. A report published by the Ministry of Education and Culture in 2016 entitled ‘Training and integration of immigrants’s education ‘Corrostinine’is an early education,pre-school education and basic educationthatall immigrants do not have sufficient English or Swedish language The need for teachers in preparatory education for basic education has increased especially since 2015. In addition, according to the report, the qualification status of these teaching groups is already lower than that of those in other teaching positions. Teacher training and the attractiveness of work in general should be invested in, and there is still a special group that needs this input. The student should be able to receive linguistic support even after preparatory education for a sufficiently long period. Not enough attention has been paid to this. When a student moves from preparatory education to basic education or continues in preparatory education as integrated, language-supported education should be offered to the student by the teacher of S2 or preparatory education in cooperation with the teacher of a class or subject. Mr President! The bill proposes legislative changes aimed at improving the quality and availability of preparatory education for basic education, strengthening the language skills of pupils and ultimately strengthening participation in Finnish society. The bill proposes to amend Article 5(1) of the Basic Education Act so that the municipality is obliged to provide preparatory education for basic education for those in need and its maximum duration would be two academic years — Article 9(3) of the Basic Education Act. In addition, Article 5 A reference to the provision of preparatory education for basic education and the formation of teaching groups would be added to the text of the Government Decree. Article 30(1) of the Basic Education Act: The article specifies the right of a preparatory education pupil to be taught according to the curriculum. If the bill were to be adopted, it would require amendments to the laws on the State's share of basic municipal services and the financing of education and culture activities. At the same time, changes should be made to the regulations on teaching group sizes, teachers' qualifications and university degrees, in order to create effective and effective legislation. Mr President! My first permanent job was in the preparatory education group at the end of the 1990s. Much progress has been made on this, and experience of a similar group of students has also been gained in later years. Integrated education and close cooperation with the so-called home class, for example in sports and arts, are good opportunities to get both language learning and integration started briskly. However, this cannot be left to the class teacher alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u299	Thank you. — Representative Kivisaari absent, representative Kinnunen absent. — Representative Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u300	Mr President! It is late in the evening, but I would like to support the basic principle that came in that speech by Mr Hopsu. We face a real challenge in the fact that there are so many disadvantages in the learning opportunities of children from different language groups from different parts of the world who come to Finland. For example, if you look at how young people with an immigrant background go to upper secondary school: about half of the age group on average goes to upper secondary school, and when you look at young people with an immigrant background, you talk about less than 10%. It varies, it has been between 5% and 6%, which means that we have to look at our education system. When I was Minister of Education, that preparatory education for basic education was six months and received a state share. That's when I extended it to a year, and this is a long way to go. When we look at the situation in our schools, I would send this bill directly to the government of the country, and it would be seen as part of our failing learning support system as a whole, that we would create equal opportunities for that learning path, and that is one of the key elements in that. And, of course, this funding must be looked at, Mr President. The Government’s investments in early childhood education and the development of basic education are to a large extent short-term funding. There is not enough money to extend compulsory education. So now it would be necessary to prioritize these basics that every child or young person, regardless of the background, should have that equal opportunity to study. I think this bill is very commendable. Thank you, Mr Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u301	Thank you. — And Mr Hopsu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u302	Mr President! Thank you for this comment to Mr Sarkomaa and thank you for the work he has done as Minister so that the duration of this compensation has already been extended to that year for the municipalities. Indeed, we are dealing with future workers and the large number of our elderly who will take care of and care for the sector as well as the industry, which is also the potential of our export industry, if we can create a good basis and good language skills in that basic education so that this integration and integration can succeed. Practical means are needed for this, and this bill is one of them. As previous representatives here praised the proposals they have received, this proposal has also come from a number of teachers in the capital region who are looking for additional resources and opportunities to carry out their work properly. Assistance resources and resources for specific support are also important in this respect. The OAJ has also contributed to commenting on this bill, and I hope that the Committee on Education will look into it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u303	Thank you. — And Mr Sarkomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u304	Thank you again, Mr President. I would like to say that I myself am the head of the Helsinki-Uusimaa Parliamentary Assembly, and we meet regularly — Mr Hopsu has been actively involved there. We regularly meet teachers in our region from early childhood education to universities, and if something has gone up from there before the corona, it is that teachers would like to be taught, and there is a situation in many classes of schools where children and young people do not get the help and support in time, even though the need for special education has grown — we statistics show that it has not been given in schools. That is why this troublesome support for learning is something that is important for reform, and part of it — which I have not seen from the government programme — should be closely linked to this initiative by Mr Hopsu. Is it two years, and in what way? I still have to look at the recent reports here, but the whole time is far too long. It cannot be that children and young people are in a very different situation. President! I would like to say that a child coming directly from a refugee camp who is afraid and sitting under the table cannot speak a word of what is spoken in the environment, or there will be children who have come from school and speak several languages, and they are in the same class, and one teacher will have to have such a large group of teachers, and because that is the same amount of preparatory education that you receive, it is obvious that it is really not all right. If we want to have those equal opportunities, then this is the thing that we certainly need to put right. That is an excellent initiative, and I hope that it will also be put on the board of the government when this learning support system is reformed. This should be the central part. And, of course, we should pay attention to that early education, the very beginning of the learning path.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u305	The 25th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — I will open the debate. Congressman Sarkomaa, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u306	Mr President! Today, the Committee on Finance approved income tax scales and income tax rates for next year, that is, 22 years, and the report that has now become public today gave support to the study that the household allowance should also be extended to the renovations carried out by housing companies. This is the same thing in my bill: the shareholders of housing companies are not entitled to a household allowance for the salary costs of the renovation carried out by the company, and of these similar renovations, on the other hand, they are entitled to a deduction, i.e. the amendment of Articles 127a and (b) of the Income Tax Act to extend the household allowance to the normal maintenance or renovation work carried out by housing companies in addition to the maintenance or basic service work performed by the taxable person in the dwelling or leisure dwelling. In Finland, housing companies have about 1400,000 dwellings and some 2600,000 Finns live in them. They have, for example, been excluded from the household allowance from the basic renovation of the dwelling, unlike, for example, some 116,000 persons living in a detached house of almost 2600,000 inhabitants. In other words, people living in housing companies have not received this household allowance, and this is certainly not to be regarded as equal treatment when we encourage the maintenance and renovation of the housing stock and energy efficiency. This household allowance should therefore be reformed. I am very pleased to hear today that the government will clarify this and the report should come in January-February. Then it would still be possible for the next budget of this government, and in that sense this bill will hopefully speed this up, as we are now in the final stages of the procedure. In other words, this household allowance should be reformed so that a resident of a housing company can actually receive that deduction from the renovations commissioned by the company. For example, refurbishment of the bathroom is a big expense, the refurbishment of pipes is a big expense when the household renovates its dwelling. The usual way for housing companies is that the bathrooms are repaired centrally, in a company-run way, either in connection with a plumbing renovation or as a single bathroom repair, and in such renovations the shareholder is not able to take advantage of that household allowance, as the deduction is granted only to the person or company. I have asked the various finance ministers on many occasions in different governments, and the answer has always been that this cannot be granted only to people, but I personally do not think that answer is sufficient. I welcome the fact that the current government, too, will hopefully not like it when this report is made. Personally, I think that extending the household allowance to renovations by housing companies would be an effective and equal way of supporting the residents of housing companies in renovations on an equal footing, alongside their own homeowners. In the housing company, the shareholders pay as a general rule all the renovation costs of the housing company in the form of company contributions, so their tax status must be the same as that of the owner-occupied housing companies. In fact, the housing company is only one step between the tenant and the renovation company, i.e. the housing company could provide the shareholder with an annual calculation of the costs of the renovation work carried out in the tax year, which would show the taxable person's need for information on the work costs of the renovation, the data of the renovation company and the shareholder's consideration-based share of the costs, and the shareholder would then report a deduction to the Tax Administration on the basis of the information. As I have followed the debate on this issue, I believe that this extension of the household allowance to the renovations carried out by housing companies would speed up the construction of renovations and reduce the growth of the renovation debt. I believe that it would also contribute to the black economy, bring additional work, tax revenue and thus also boost the economy. I would also like to say that, although this evening is far along and I am shortening this introduction, extending the household allowance to the renovations of the housing company would also improve the energy efficiency of residential buildings. We all know, and we have often discussed in this Chamber, that climate and energy policy has a very significant impact on the development of housing costs. I'm a congressman from Helsinki. Here in the capital region, the cost of living and living is very high, we have very old housing, we have very small pensions, people with small wages who have bought owner-occupied housing and work hard or have worked hard when they are retired — many pensioners are also working to finance their own housing — and there are many of these renovations coming. They're so expensive for a lot of people. This would also be a very welcome hand-in-hand for those significant increases in housing costs brought about by climate and energy policy, or at least the upward trend, to be met. And when it comes to steering methods and encouraging different renovations, it is really important that they treat property owners equally and do not distort competition and do not place people in an unequal position, depending on the type of dwelling they live in, the type of company or dwelling they have bought, that is, housing companies should be able to receive support for the implementation of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects also through this household reduction. In other words, this bill is now before Parliament, and I would like it to be able to continue to be discussed and discussed in committee if it were to be the case that the report which the government is making on this issue — as has been discussed in the corridors today, at least, when this committee's report was completed, that this proposal was very positive — is to be welcomed, then there would be a number of articles already in place. It would be very important for this to come to the next budget, which government will bring to Parliament if this government is able to bring another budget in addition to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-11-16-ps-134.u307	Thank you for the introduction. — Representative Talvitie, gone.
