ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Ilmari Nurminen has requested exemption from membership of the Nordic Council delegation in Finland. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u2	The 3rd issue of the daily order is the Government’s statement on the affiliations of the members of the Government. According to the Rules of Procedure, Parliament does not take a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u3	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 17/2021 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. Following a ten-minute presentation by the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Ms Kymäläinen, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall begin with a maximum of 5 minutes. Other contributions requested in advance shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, I will give you 1 or 2 minutes of responses in the order I am considering. — Mr Kymäläinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u4	Mr President! The Committee on Transport and Communications has discussed and finalised its report on the national transport system plan for 2021 to 2032. For the first time, this is a comprehensive and long-term strategic plan for the development of the transport system, which will guide transport infrastructure investment, maintenance and the development of all modes of transport. Principles and objectives: The report is based on two basic principles: long-term commitment to the plan and, consequently, long-term funding. In the Committee's view, the national transport system plan is being prepared in a parliamentary manner, precisely in order to ensure long-term sustainability. In its opinion on the report, the Committee on Finance also stresses the strong commitment to the implementation of the plan, extending beyond the term of government and the parliamentary term. For this reason, the Committee on Transport and Communications proposes that Parliament adopt a position requiring the Government to commit itself to the guidelines of the national transport system plan and to ensure that the necessary appropriations for the implementation of the plan are taken into account in the budgetary plans and in the state budget proposals. The report describes three objectives: accessibility, sustainability and efficiency. These objectives are further specified by the four strategic guidelines for the accessibility objective. According to the report, the transport system must guarantee the accessibility of the whole of Finland and meet the needs of industries, employment and housing. The principle is three-hour accessibility in traffic within Finland and from the airport of Helsinki-Vantaa to other countries, which underlines the importance of regional airports and border crossing points in the development of transport and logistics. The basic element of sustainability is that people's ability to choose more sustainable forms of mobility is improved. A characteristic of efficiency is that the social economic efficiency of the transport system is improved. The committee welcomes these principles and objectives and believes that they should be relied on in the implementation and development of the plan. Financing: The Committee's attention has been drawn to the budgetary implications of the report during the committee's deliberations. In its opinion, the Committee on Finance draws attention to the fact that, in particular, the low level of funding for the first years of the planning period is not in line with the objective set by the parliamentary steering group.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u9	Thank you. — And then we go to group speeches. — Mr Eskelinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u10	Mr President! It is important that we have this feedback debate today on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications when the national transport system plan is blessed and implemented at a high speed. Thank you very much to all those involved in the preparation and, in particular, to the good parliamentary cooperation. We Social Democrats have long spoken in favour of long-term work on the transport system and, under our leadership, this issue is now being brought to a close today. For the first time, we now have jointly agreed principles and criteria for developing the transport system in the long term. With the plan, we will improve the accessibility, sustainability and efficiency of the transport system. Mr President! This strategic plan for the development of the entire transport system takes into account the whole of Finland and all modes of transport. Its predictability will improve from the perspective of the state, regions, municipalities and business. Moreover, it is particularly important that the potential of EU funding is increased when we have a long-term planning perspective. It is essential that the plan guarantees the vitality of Finland as a whole in the future. From a regional point of view, the accessibility objective outlined in the plan is particularly important, which strongly contributes to the vitality of the regions and to the foundations of the growth conditions of Finland as a whole. In the SDP, we attach particular importance to reducing the major repair debt on our network during the planning period. After all, the Government Programme has already included additional funding for basic bus maintenance of EUR 300 million, which is now planned to continue, and since the beginning of 2025 there will be a level increase of EUR 100 million in basic bus maintenance. In addition, the plan also takes into account the general increase in the cost level. Mr President! The Agency is currently preparing a multi-annual investment programme, which will then serve as the basis for the preparation of the budget. The programme will include guidelines on transport projects to be launched in the coming years, their implementation order and funding. Like the Communications Committee and the Committee on Finance, we in the SDP agree that the projects included in the programme must strengthen the competitiveness and accessibility of industry and regions. In other words, commitment to the implementation of the Investment Plan is of paramount importance. It should be noted, however, that Parliament is the budgetary authority and then, ultimately, in the context of the budgets, projects are approved. The plan sets out the criteria for promoting transport projects to be launched over the next 12 years. The SDP attaches importance to the plan's approach to a stronger investment in rail transport. Increasing rail transport is an important means of promoting sustainable transport. In addition, our rail network will be subject to huge renovation needs during the planning period. However, we must not forget the road transport sector and, in particular, the lower road network. The majority of traffic in Finland continues to travel along roads. From this point of view, it is therefore important that the vast majority of basic infrastructure management funding should continue to be allocated to the roads in line with the plan. The plan for increasing private road subsidies is also very important. The SDP considers it important that the potential of water transport for sustainable transport in the future has also been taken into account in the transport system work. A key example is the future investments of the Saimaa Canal, which have a strong impact on the vitality of Finland as a whole and especially of Eastern Finland. In addition, the development of inland waterway transport and the development of inland ports will be needed in the future. For us social democrats, it is essential that road safety is seen as a cross-cutting theme in the plan and its centrality in the transport system is strongly taken into account. Action to improve road safety, particularly in road transport, must be given particular attention in the future. Mr President! The Socialist Group in Parliament fully supports this report and hopes that the implementation of the plan will proceed in the desired way and will also be committed to it in the coming parliamentary term. With long-term work, we will have major sustainable developments in our transport system.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u11	Thank you. — And Mr Kankaanniemi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u12	Mr President! In its unanimous report, the Committee on Transport and Communications has adopted the principles and objectives of the national transport system plan and has identified the needs of different modes of transport. On the basis of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, it has taken a position on funding. The report also contains some other aspects of the content of the plan. The Finnish Parliament Group emphasises the basic principles of the plan, which are a long-term commitment to the plan and the funding needed to implement it. The long-term and commitment will be achieved through the parliamentary and parliamentary drafting of the 12-year plan. The important statement proposed by the committee obliges the government to take the necessary appropriations into the budgetary plans and budgets. In particular, we emphasise accessibility and efficiency. They are important for Finland's exports and foreign connections. Improving the accessibility of different parts of the country is a prerequisite for securing the livelihoods, employment and housing of a large country. The importance of all physical transport modes and telecommunications connections is emphasised. Mr President! Transport funding has been unplanned for decades. This has led to inefficiency, which has slowed down economic growth and regional development. If this is the case, then the parliamentary work that has been carried out and the committee's deliberations have not been in vain. The co-financing model has received a lot of criticism. The Group of the Finnish People's Party considers it important that the committee make a clear statement to ensure that the state does not delegate any more financial responsibility to municipalities than is currently the case. The level of funding for basic infrastructure management in the road network has varied disproportionately each year. Unfortunately, there is a hole in the plans of the Marin government for the years 23 and 24. The plan will lose ground if the financing of transport continues to deteriorate. This must not happen. The Government emphasises public transport and the development of the infrastructure for walking and cycling. We require that this does not undermine the conditions for the use of a private car or increase the cost of mobility. We agree with the opinion of the Committee on Finance that, in addition to the railways, Finland needs a comprehensive, well-functioning and constantly evolving road network. In the plan, the financing of the road network is becoming modest in terms of needs and repair debt. When preparing the next national plan, careful consideration must be given to financing and its distribution. Large-scale railway projects will also have to be assessed. Finland is a net contributor to the EU and the contribution rate is still increasing. It is therefore important that transport projects, including road projects, are designed in such a way as to ensure funding under the Connecting Europe Facility. The shortcomings of the plans and the system must not hinder this. This is something that the committee rightly pays serious attention to. Mr President! The state transport network is an entity whose functionality and safety are essential from private to public roads, from maritime and water transport to air, rail and telecommunications. The use of electronic air transport must be monitored and promoted. It can solve the shortcomings of domestic flights. That is what the committee is proposing an important statement on. The committee draws attention to the low technology potential of the plan. As part of digitalisation, for example, artificial intelligence, block chains and 5G should be targeted at in-depth review and funding. In making use of these, Finland must strive for the world’s leading role. The Finnish Parliament Group shares the concern about taking into account the mobility needs of the ageing population and other special groups. The inequality created by age and place of residence should be reduced. As distance work increases, telecommunications connections must be secured. It will be up to the Fairway Office to implement the plan. It must be prepared in consultation with business and regions, among other things. It is important to ensure that Parliament has sufficient influence in the implementation of transport policy. Mr President! Finally, I would like to quote Mr Laakso, who, in the debate on referrals, crystallized that "the transport system must serve the grandmother of the pliers, the author of Kouvola liquorice and the huge new bioproduct factory in Kemi". That's right! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u13	Thank you. — Mr Tolvanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u14	Mr President! Today we are dealing with the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on the Government's report on the 12-year national transport system plan. It is a comprehensive and long-term parliamentary strategy paper that guides road and rail investment in our country and the development of different modes of transport up to 32. The aim of a long-term strategy and parliamentary preparation is to reduce the improbability of the development of the transport system and to ensure its steady funding, inter alia, for the systematic reduction of the road repair debt. It is therefore appropriate to thank the various parliamentary parties for having prepared a comprehensive strategy with a very good consensus across the Government-Opposition boundaries. The Coalition Party supports the long-term development of the transport system and we therefore welcome this strategy with pleasure. We want to commit ourselves to ensuring that transport appropriations do not collide, depending, for example, on the government base or the regional policy interests of the election winner. It is important that the transport system is developed over a long period of time, bearing in mind the regional balance, without short-sighted driving home. Mr President! The repair debt of our fairway network is approximately EUR 2.8 billion. During the 12-year period, debt will be reduced to EUR 2.2 billion. The working group agreed that the financing of basic infrastructure management should amount to EUR 1.4 billion per year. This consensus is valuable because the condition of our transport network is a key part of the competitiveness of our country and the accessibility of the various sub-regions. However, as soon as the report was completed, the Government decided on 12.5. to target the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications from 23 onwards a savings obligation of EUR 110 million. It is important that the reduction obligation is not allocated to the financing of basic infrastructure management in order to achieve the agreed annual level of funding of EUR 1.4 billion. Otherwise, the government's actions seriously undermine the credibility of the report and make it difficult to implement it. A functional logistics network is the vascular system of our economy. Our gross national products and exports move along railways, roads, waterways and now also data cables. International companies value Finland because we are a predictable, reliable and stable society. The good condition of our basic infrastructure is a key element in securing this stability. Mr President! Mobility is a fundamental human right and civil liberties. The 12-year transport system plan takes steps forward to ensure this. A well-functioning transport network is a necessity for people to be able to move freely and cheaply within and between municipalities and cities. Unfortunately, there are also storm clouds threatening freedom of movement on the horizon. Government fuel tax increases and plans to adopt congestion charges legislation are likely to undermine freedom of movement and increase the cost of working hard-working Finns' everyday lives. Finland, which recovers from the interest-rate crisis, does not need any new forms of taxation that hinder work and its reception. The profitability of many small and medium-income Finnish jobs rests on this. That's why it really doesn't matter. Regrettably, the government has been stricken with anti-motoristic thinking, which wants to set different modes of transport against each other. This is short-sighted policy, very short-sighted. A significant fall in the traffic performance of private cars in the coming decades will not be realism. What is more important is to reduce emissions from car transport, as is already happening and will happen, and not to tax the traffic itself. Mr President! Another threat with regard to the financing of our transport system is the government's run-down social welfare reform, which will result in the collapse of the municipalities' ability to generate income and thus the conditions for investing in the transport system. As the income base of previously viable municipalities and cities deteriorates, their capacity to invest in transport routes will be substantially weakened. Many of the extremely necessary regional projects can be buried in the future, because the condensing shoulders of municipalities are unable to support investment programmes as large as they were in the past. The unfavourable co-financing model between the municipality and the state, combined with the miserable social welfare reform, can freeze many regional projects in the future. Unfortunately, therefore, municipalities and their investment in vitality are also affected by the dwindling failure of the unfortunate social welfare reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u17	Thank you. — Mr Könttä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u18	Mr President! Finland is a country of long distances, where we perform both everyday chores and Midsummer celebrations through various means of movement. Some of us are enough for an apostolic ride, others are flying, and there are also us on many trains. But most people need their own car. In fact, it is extraordinary how nearly weekly motorists are blamed: to blame them for needing their own car for working, taking children's hobbies and shopping, to blame for the usual everyday life of a Finnish citizen. Some researchers and some politicians have become alienated from the everyday lives of a normal Finnish citizen. Ordinary Finns who need their own car are made, without reason, the biggest causes of climate change. It's not right. We need car peace so that Finns do not have to fear for their own movement every week, so that in the future it will also be possible to drive for those who need their own car, and there will be a lot of us in Finland. With affordable cars, fuels at affordable prices and roads in good condition, this should be taken for granted in a country of long distances. The Centre maintains the freedom of movement of people and the Centre does not approve of increasing the cost of driving.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u23	Thank you. — Mr Soinikoski, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u24	Mr President! The construction of a sustainable transport system for the future requires a wide range of different mobility options, as what works at the same time may not be possible elsewhere. In cities it is best to travel in public, walking and cycling. Longer journeys are the most comfortable and ecological way to travel by train. In sub-regions and rural areas, there is a need for functional parking and charging points for electric and biogas cars. About one fifth of all emissions in Finland are generated by transport, and that is why we Greens are calling for such ambitious reductions in emissions in transport. Finland's target of halving transport emissions by 2030 is just the way we are heading towards the first carbon-neutral welfare state in the world. The improvement of the transport system is an important part of this package, and at best sustainable forms of mobility make transport services available to more and more Finns. This week Parliament was briefed on the annual climate report, according to which emissions from domestic transport fell by six per cent in 2020 compared to the previous year. This was particularly affected by corona pandemic, as the kilometres driven decreased sharply. Mr President! The message of the Annual Climate Report is clear: carbon neutrality in 2035 will require further urgent action even after the pandemic. If it is not possible to cut emissions from traffic, it must be done from somewhere else. In these efforts, each sector must play its part. The Greens' starting point throughout the Transport 12 work has been that the preparation of the transport system plan must go hand in hand with the road map for fossil-free transport and the reform of taxes and charges for sustainable transport. The Committee on Transport and Communications also stresses this in its report. It is clear that the transport system can no longer rely on fossil fuels in the 2030s. We must not only electrify transport in a sustainable way but also increase the share of bio-based fuels in transport. In terms of nature or the climate, it does not matter how and from where biofuels for transport are produced. Whether we use virgin biomass or whether we talk about, for example, fourth generation carbon neutral biofuels and circular economy — the differences in the environmental impact of fuels can be great. Mr President! Transport sustainability, energy efficiency and accessibility of regions. These are the main objectives we set in the steering group for this plan. They bind the development of the transport system across party boundaries and over parliamentary term. We are committed to these objectives together. If this parliamentary, careful preparation is not to be wasted, the Government must genuinely commit itself to the guidelines of the national transport system plan. This means, among other things, that the appropriations necessary to implement the plan will be taken into account in the budgetary plans and in the state budget proposals. In its report, the committee rightly draws attention to the greatest challenge of transport policy, namely financing. It is important that the proposed co-financing model does not alter the basic principles of the financial responsibilities of transport projects. Contract cooperation between the state and municipalities must continue to rely on trust and partnership with a view to building a better transport system for the common good. Another major challenge for transport policy has been the lack of long-term sustainability. The transport system plan also provides solutions for this. The Committee stresses the use of new services and digitalisation in the further development of the transport system. The world around us is changing rapidly and so is transport and the need for mobility. The transport system plan must be adapted as new, more sustainable modes of mobility emerge. Mr President! Social and territorial justice are the cornerstones of fair change and have also been taken into account in the planning of the transport system, and this must continue to be the case. In addition to climate change, we must actively combat transport poverty. People must be able to move to the services within a reasonable time, with reasonable effort and cost, regardless of the income level or postal code. We Greens want more and more Finns to be able to choose a train as their means of transport instead of the most polluting alternatives. Workable and well-served rail transport is therefore a key element of a sustainable transport system. Mr President! We warmly support the objectives of the national transport system plan in the Green Parliamentary Group, and as a member of the steering group I would like to thank you again for your cooperation and wish everyone a good summer on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u25	Thank you. — Mr Kyllönen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u26	Mr President! I love you guys. railways, roads, cycle paths, maritime roads, waterways, forest roads, driveways, I love you guys. I love you because different ways are the enabler of human activity and life. A well-designed global transport system is a combination of engineering, science and culture that will help us build a more functional and sustainable future. Transport affects everything: housing, working life, entrepreneurship, construction, climate, environment, health, well-being. The 12-year transport system plan is an historic package that looks at the different modes of transport as a package in a whole new way: railways, cycle roads, waterways, roads, digital roads, highways. However, the overall review must not remain here. This social package must be brought together even better in the future, and it must be possible to look at all modes of transport more widely together and their relationship with everything to do in our society. A new kind of bold approach to the future and new ways of working and finding solutions will also make it possible for Finland to successfully apply for the desired EU money. Together, we need to create a dense, systematic, climate-friendly, environment-friendly network, where every barge and smartly used electric kickboard has its own role and its place of safety. Care must be taken to ensure that the threads of a secure and serviceable transport system reach wherever people want to keep their own earthly hut. Mr President! This, if anything can be done through parliamentary cooperation. Whether it is worth considering whether a small people with limited population should spend their time and energy instilling and waiving one another, or whether we could go further on common, critical issues for the future of our nation to seek a broad consensus and to work together. There is no need to agree with everything at all, but building and seeking a common vision is important in an age when, inevitably, systemic change is coming through mobility, work and digital transformation. I dare say that those teams who are the first to dare to look for common denominators and seek common goals in the game field instead of kicking in their own goal will also be able to cope with and discover traffic and its new production of export and sales products for the future. Mr President! Let us be courageous and continue to do things together. The agreement and cooperation in drawing up this transport plan gave confidence in the ability to cooperate. Thank you for that to everyone involved in this work. Together, we will ensure that, through good connections, we keep the whole of Finland safe and vibrant, reduce emissions and enable more smooth work and leisure traffic for everyone, not just the few. The future can be done, smartly, together, not by hanging on to things, but by looking forward with courage, seeking new, effective solutions in cooperation with all actors. That is how we serve people and society in the best possible way. Let's work together! Let's work together! — Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u27	Thank you. — Sedan ledamot Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u28	Mr President, ärade talman! Det är ett stort nöje att rauta i dag för att godkänna Finlands första riksomfattande trafiksystemplan. Det är en historisk plan som kommer att bli en valdigt viktig del i vårt utvecklingsarbete — i alla trafikformer, som det har kommit fram toi tidigare också. När vi utvecklar infrastructuren i vårt land behövs det långsiktighet. Det är precis vad den ox planen handlar om.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u29	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Transport is very well and carefully written. It is like a horn of truth and an emergency cry to reduce the debt of correction as a matter of urgency. Its findings are timely and support the long-term plan of Transport 12, as well as the findings of the Committee on Finance. Transport is the second largest cost item for Finnish households. The functioning of the transport network affects everyone, directly or indirectly, every day of our lives. The national transport system plan Transport 12 is a very important strategic document and, Mr President, would have earned a better time than the last moments of the spring period. This should definitely have been the beginning of autumn. Well, here we go.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u34	Thank you. — Now would be a good time to go to the debate. I ask those who want to participate in the debate to stand up and press the V button. — Mr Kymäläinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u35	Mr President! First of all, I should also like to thank the working group and the committee, and then a few comments on the opposition's arguments in particular. It is true that this concerns about the EUR 110 million savings obligation, which the committee also raised in its report, but we do remember that this government agreed on savings so that a return to the framework would be possible in 2024. Of course, in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications there are major transport modes whose budget is not based on law, and that is why, unfortunately, we are looking at the side of transport when we do not want to make cuts in education and social security quite rightly, and so on. But the final allocation of savings will come next spring and the damage to Transport 12 will be minimised. The important thing is to see that it's good,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u36	Thank you. — Representative Kankaanniemi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u37	Mr President! Planning and funding are two key words here. With regard to this funding, of course, the working group, or the parliamentary steering group, had a strong debate on EU funding. Let us hope that this systematic approach will now give us the chance to get a share of EU funding, the European funds for the corridors, which have so far been scarcely received. The second big question was this treatment of municipalities. It is quite clear that the social welfare reform undermines the ability of municipalities to invest and then transport projects. It is therefore important that the government does not impose new burdens on municipalities here. Such an effort was strong in that parliamentary group, but we were able to reject it there. And thank you to the committee, which, by now making a statement, will ensure that:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u38	Thank you. — And Mr Marttinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u39	Mr President! I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for this joint work, because this new plan does provide an excellent basis for a long-term transport policy. But, Mr President, second point: I listened carefully to Mr Könttä's speech. We have also dealt with transport funding, and when Mr Könttä said here that we should declare this kind of car peace, so what car peace this government has done by tightening fuel taxation,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u40	Thank you. — Mr Könttä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Marttinen is well aware that it is up to the municipalities to decide on the possible congestion charge, and Helsinki, which is co-operative, will then decide for itself, and if Helsinki, which is co-operative, does not want them, Helsinki will certainly not set them up. But as far as this plan is concerned, I think it is important now that we have this multiannual plan, but regionalism is important in the future as far as funding is concerned. And, fortunately, now that a fine decision has been reached that the MAL agreements were extended to new urban areas — Jyväskylä, Lahti, Kuopio — I hope that the government and all of us decision-makers will ensure that other regional cities and smaller municipalities also receive their share of important transport investments. And you have to remember that every time we improve roads, reduce hills, straighten bends, it also reduces traffic emissions and makes it easier for ordinary people in many ways. It is important to take this into account in transport policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u42	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u43	Mr President! This is a good plan, but a little bit of it feels like a fine line. I would like to return to that speech by Mr Könttä, in which he declared car peace. You yourself have raised fuel taxes, and you know very well that this applies particularly to long-distance workers in rural areas and burdens them and their work, the profitability of working. This can't go on like this. While we have been talking about car peace here, I can also talk about bike road poverty. I am surprised that there is a great deal of biking here, but that is the way the money is not coming to the countryside. There will be no funding for road safety cycling.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u44	Thank you. — Mr Koskinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u45	Mr. Speaker! The Committee on Transport and Tourism has taken good account of the issues raised by the Committee on Finance in its opinion. In this particularly painful situation over the next few years, the fate of major investments, the fate of development projects, that the funds within these frameworks are insufficient, and yet we should be directing precisely because of the fact that EU funding is also being made available, especially for the necessary rail infrastructure development targets. It requires double tracks for a long journey to the main track and also for other main connections, and the State Railways have large and very careful priority assessments carried out, but we also need to be able to direct enough sums in the budget for the next few years in order to make progress. And then these projects for the coming decades through the project companies: they too, of course, have to be designed.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u46	Thank you. — Mr Tolvanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u47	Mr President! Mr Marttinen has just made a good speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u50	Thank you. — Congressman Kosonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u51	Mr President! I would like to thank all those involved in this work. It is really essential that now we finally have this kind of long-term plan for the development of the transport system. A few comments: Of course, road maintenance and accessibility are essential in large Finland, and although we face challenges in the construction of these new large, wide road connections, we must always ensure that the existing roads are in order. I can tell you that experience is in the Savonlinna region, where road 14 gets asphalt, but there is no maintenance work to be done elsewhere. So I would like to see such a balance between maintenance measures. Rail transport is an extremely important issue. That's where we're in the back of Finland, and I really hope,
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u52	Thank you. — Mr Laukkanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u53	Mr President! The key tools for the success of this plan are indeed cost-benefit calculations and financial solutions. When we considered these funding in the parliamentary working group, we received a very broad description of how different funding models are used in the Nordic countries and in Europe to build and run roads. Unfortunately, in this kingdom we have a very narrow view of the possibilities of financing, and this should be a parliamentary leap up a metre, take a bold advantage and focus on the fact that, for example, for this repair debt, even if we set up our own repair company. When Finland has a good credit situation, we get money for such projects, they would also generate revenue as soon as road maintenance was started immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u54	Thank you. — Mr Kyllönen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Road safety is an extremely important issue which I think we are still talking about too little. We talk about the billion-dollar effects of disability, disability and disability losses, care costs, deaths, medical care and rehabilitation in our society. There would be billions of dollars available for road maintenance if we worked harder on road safety, and that is why I would like all parties to make a strong contribution to the idea of amending legislation on road safety charges as a matter of urgency. This would also be extremely important in order to secure this preventive work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u56	Thank you. — Congressman Risikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u57	Mr President! Thank you for the work that the committee has done and for what has been done in this system plan as a whole in parliamentary terms. It is very important that we have such a long-term plan which commits the various parties and groups to long-term work. What has just come out of that speech in the centre has now been seen on two tracks or two lanes, but on the other hand, it is great if such thinking is in the centre, and it is now, of course, reflected in the budget debate as to how it will be verified. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u58	Thank you. — Mr Kivisaari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u59	Mr President! A word on park-and-ride which the Committee on Transport and Communications has also noted with merit. This means parking directly related to public transport and serves not only environmental objectives but also the development of smooth travel chains. There are many station areas in Finland that municipalities and cities want to develop. For example, in Seinäjoki, i.e. along the main track, it is one of the most important urban strategies. I therefore consider it essential that the state does not leave the cities alone in the projects relating to the regions of the station, which often involve parking. That is why, President, I welcome the fact that the report commits the role of the State and also encourages it to:
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u60	Thank you. — Representative Kiljunen, Kimmo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u61	Mr President! Mr Könttä opened the debate with the term ‘car peace’,and several have referred to it. I imagine that the term includes the idea of avoiding the uprising of motorists, or in some way also safeguarding the conditions under which cars would be able to operate wisely. It has been pointed out many times here that the government has invested in basic routes, public transport systems, rail solutions and others, all of which also help the peace of the car. But, admittedly, the biggest issue is not the gas tax, which is an automatic inflation check, but the fact that we genuinely have phenomena in this society that are harassing driving. This parking system, the parking business that has been created, is a completely unreasonable situation, and it is great that 122 Members of Parliament are taking the initiative in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. Getting a legal basis for this parking control is one of the big things that will safeguard the peace of the car.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u62	Thank you. — And Mr Kanerva, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u63	Mr President! It is a pity that the minister concerned is unable to be present in this debate. Yes, this whole operation leaves a great deal of major structural challenges. Of course, the correction debt is one such thing, but equally this stability of the level of investment, which today is possessed by Finland, is a question that should be openly viewed. The investment level for this planning interval is good 6 billion for the whole of Finland without these very important structural rail construction projects, projects in the form of project companies. We face a big question if we are not able to reform the Finnish transport infrastructure in terms of competitiveness. Therefore, I underline the need to see the matter in the light that will also be seen
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u64	Congressman Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u65	Mr President! I shall leave the general transport policy to my actual speech and now take the floor on a very everyday matter. On June 15, I saw that the car I changed a year ago had accumulated 46,000 miles [46,000 km] a year. When I have been driving for 50 years and this was not an exceptional year in any way, I am a 2 million-km motorist — seeking a parallel in this Chamber — and I look a lot at these things from the point of view of driving. On the Pori-Turku road, which is part of the highway eight, which was highlighted here by my excellent colleague, Mr Ollikainen, I have driven about 2,000 times. There's traffic lights in the middle of Laitila. There are few bypasses. On one occasion, I drove 50 miles [50 km] behind the truck, and when I finally got to the passway, the truck moved to the bypass to pass the moped, and I said that this was not going to work. In other words, this backbone of industry, the freeway of large ports in Oulu
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u66	Thank you. — Congressman Kauma, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u67	Mr President! I would like to return to this question of the peace of the car, namely that the increase in the fuel tax is not a trivial matter at all, bearing in mind, for example, where in France the yellow vest demonstrations started. Here Mr Könttä of the Government Party raised the question of tolls from the point of view that this would only be a matter for the municipalities, but when I myself, and many others here, are also active in municipal councils, I do at least have the impression that whoever receives this money still has to decide. In other words, is the Ministry of Finance, as it were, a parafiscal charge, the recipient in the capital region, for example, urban transport in the Helsinki region HSL, or are the municipalities receiving it? It cannot be just a matter decided by the municipalities, and if I have understood correctly, this is what you read in the Government Programme of the Government Parties that tolls or
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u68	Thank you. — Mr Kinnunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u69	Mr President! Thank you for this comprehensive plan. Roads are an essential part of the vitality of the provinces and the country as a whole. They are a prerequisite for people and goods to move. However, the small roads are in unauthorized bad condition in different parts of Finland. When the Sipilä Government increased funding for basic bus maintenance by 600 million and the current government by 300, and now that we are returning from the corona to the frameworks, which has been very much desired and demanded here, it is important that the savings be as limited as possible to this basic bus maintenance.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u70	Thank you. — Mr Pelkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u71	Mr President! Mobility is a fundamental right for all of us, and we must be able to move freely in Finland as we wish, whether it be private cars, public transport, cycling or walking, and a well-functioning transport network is essential here. There should be no unnecessary confrontation between the different modes of movement. For example, continuous demonization of private cars is of no benefit to anyone, on the contrary. There have been many speeches here today about this car peace, and perhaps the Government, inspired by Mr Könttä, will, in honour of this summer, declare a car peace in our country and forget the unnecessary congestion charges, tolls and also these fuel tax increases. The cost of ordinary people working should not be increased at all. But all in all, it is great that this comprehensive strategy was prepared by consensus across government and opposition boundaries, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u72	Thank you. — Mr Werner, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, everyone is fully aware that in Finland the debt of repair is ridiculously high. However, it is good to point out that the government has already made an annual increase of EUR 300 million in the level of basic access and a number of important projects have been launched. In other words, there has been a strong response to this already. [SunaKymäläinen's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u74	Thank you. — Representative Kankaanniemi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u75	Mr President! All of us here, or at least almost all of us, are concerned about this overall level of funding. More than a year ago, when the corona hit, we agreed that by taking the debt we would deal with that problem as well as money could handle it, and it was quite successful. I would now like to challenge the fact that there would be representatives across party lines in this Chamber who would be prepared to embark on a project to drive a few billion over five years, for example 5-10 billion, and to put this debt of correction in order and then invest in important targets. I believe that it would bring both work and income to our economy and pay for itself. In my view, such a challenge would be quite appropriate: see if there is any readiness for it. Maybe we could move this.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u76	Thank you. — And Mr Ollikainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u77	Mr President, ärade talman! Thank you also for my cooperation in this whole process. I'm sure there's a lot of different ways to think about this whole thing about funding. Here again, I would like to highlight the possibilities of digitalisation, because it too can create quite a lot of savings from the point of view of safety, but also from the point of view of emissions and then from the point of view of the economy, as well as from the point of view of smart grids, that it is not semi-full trucks but that they are more full. This knowledge management is an integral part of this whole. There have been examples of road projects that may not have digitised old plans. There should be more transparency and credibility in this decision-making, also on a regional level, in what way this plan is reflected locally in our regions, because if we have good transparency it will create credibility in what road is prioritised
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u78	Now we move on to the list of speakers. — Mr Kivisaari, please. — Here before Kivisaari starts: we have this stage now, from now on, up to two and then there will be group meetings for Question Time, and after Question Time we will continue if there are requests to speak. — Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u79	Mr President! Thus, the national transport system plan, which was drawn up for the first time, extends from 2021 to 2032. The plan will be updated every four years for 12 years at a time. The development of transport systems requires long-term commitment and funding over the parliamentary term. The report has been prepared by all parliamentary parties and many social bodies. Transport routes are part of Finnish national property, which needs to be taken care of and developed. EU funding must also be sought more effectively for both road and rail projects. We have been less successful than many other EU countries in this regard. In this respect, our lobbying and activity need to be improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u82	Thank you. — And Mr Kinnunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u83	Mr President! A comprehensive, mutually agreed plan will bring long-term sustainability to the development of safe and efficient transport arrangements in our country. As a representative Könttä said today that transport routes are our national property. We have almost half a million kilometres of road, less than 6,000 kilometers of rail, 21 airports, over 16,000 kilometers of waterways and an important internet. All of these should be considered as a whole and developed in a broad way. The correction debt for roads must be further reduced. When we find new and innovative solutions and make bold plans, we will also be able to receive more funding from the European Union. Mr President! The nationwide and comprehensive, well-equipped road system is the key to the flourishing of Finnish society up to the banks. We need connections in the country with long distances. The raw materials in our country come from the provinces, and a large part of the processing is also made in different parts of Finland. Products that accumulate gross domestic product are not transported to ports and to the world if the roads are not in order. Mr President! Thanks to the Transport 12 plan, Finnish transport planning takes a step towards a comprehensive future with a long string. It is a great thing that in this matter, which is absolutely essential for Finland's success, we are able to agree on matters together. Thank you for your work together. The broad preparation of the plan with the various stakeholders is extremely important from the point of view of quality work. It's come true in this great way. As a result of the Koronapandemia, teleworking and multi-placed everyday life have become a reality for many Finns. In practice, during the crisis, we have seen the value of a decentralised society. It is more shock-proof and secure, and on a global scale it is better able to withstand a pandemic. As we move towards normal, the sharing of life becomes a permanent practice for many Finns. I don't think we're going back to a full-time job. In order to do this, we need smooth communication connections and diverse transport connections throughout Finland. Companies and entrepreneurs need roads, tracks, ports and regional airports. The fibre is needed in different parts of Finland. Good transport connections are essential for our industry. In today's service society, however, the end product is increasingly intangible, but the factors must also be able to move. That is why good science is also important in the coming years. For us downtown people, the vitality of the whole country and the prerequisites for living are a matter of heart. It is clear that services of the same kind cannot be provided in provincial agglomerations as in the capital region, but smooth transport connections are a prerequisite for everyone. On the small roads of the province in the country of long distances you can see the significance of good road management. Of course, we also need to develop public transport in sparsely populated areas as co-operation between municipalities, and of course the double track from Tampere to Oulu and beyond is very necessary in the long run. Mr President! Well designed is half done. Let's get it together.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u84	Thank you. — Mr Werner, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u85	Mr President! On this important day we can welcome the fact that we are finally having this feedback debate on the Government's report on the national transport system plan for 2021 to 2032. The day is also historic, because a similar plan has never been made in Finland before, but this is the first of its kind. A great deal of work was done under the leadership of Minister Haraka to complete this report and to process Parliament. Today, in turn, the next step in this task will be to approve the transport system plan here in the big room, and the implementation of the plan can actually start. In order to reach this point, all parliamentary parties, a strong common will and a common desire to develop the Finnish transport system in a long-term and determined manner have been required. Without this joint action, this historic, the greatest transport policy action of this regime would have been missed and the transport system would have been more accessible, more sustainable and more efficient. Mr President! We are dealing with a strategic plan for the development of the entire transport system in the long term. This plan will look at it 12 years from now and will be updated every four years. This includes all modes of transport, passenger and freight transport, transport networks, services and cross-cutting themes of the transport system. One of the key objectives of the plan is also strong cooperation between the state and municipalities. I therefore think it is very important that cooperation is more proactive and more structured in the future, including for business. The continued cooperation is also strongly supported by the annual discussion with regional actors on the progress of the plan. The discussions will take place in accordance with the supranational transport system regions of the regional federations, i.e. Eastern, Western, Northern and Southern Finland. In addition, interaction with urban regions and business operators will be developed alongside existing existing interaction routes. This will enable us to act on the basis of knowledge and experience and to make efficient use of resources. Mr President! Everyone knows that the repair debt for our network is huge and it is absolutely necessary to reduce it during the planning period. An important point is that the plan has been designed to raise the level of funding for basic infrastructure management. This is what the Marin government has already done to fund the basic bus maintenance of a fairly substantial EUR 300 million annual level increase. In addition, the plan sets out an additional increase of 100 million from 2025 onwards. At this very moment, a multi-annual investment programme is being prepared for the Väylä Agency, based on the records of the Transport 12 plan. This investment programme, which includes guidelines on the transport projects to be launched in the coming years, the order in which they will be implemented and the financing, is relevant, as it will also serve as a basis for preparing the budget. But ultimately, in the context of the budget, Parliament will decide which projects will be launched at what stage. As I said before, this plan covers all modes of transport. However, I would like to place more emphasis on rail in particular. The emphasis on rail is also on sustainable transport. Nor can it be forgotten that the repair needs of our rail networks are also very great. Mr President! I am very pleased that this historic report is ready and I believe that this parliamentary plan will proceed as planned. I also believe that when you do it together, you make a commitment. All the parliamentary groups were involved, and I believe that they are behind the report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u86	Thank you. — Mr Lindén, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u87	Mr President! We have heard very well prepared, fine speeches here on this very important issue. In that debate, I quite consciously raised a very personal and regional point of view, but it was in that debate, and I would like to say a few words about transport policy in general in this context in a speech from this very point of view. I think we need all the modes of transport that we are discussing here, because ultimately the community structure regulates what is the most meaningful way of moving both to people and then to goods. When I thought about my own life cycle, when I was working in Helsinki, it never occurred to me that I had used my own car in traffic within the city — there is a very well-functioning public transport here. Well, in my locality — practically in Pori, Turku, Helsinki — I use a lot of light traffic myself, a bicycle, but I can see that they are very different types of mobility. As two extremes, I can mention, for example, the smooth, less operated Pori and then Helsinki, where at times it seems that cycling is usually a form of sport for middle-aged men dressed in perfect cycling costumes, where the greatest risk factor is that pedestrians accidentally step foot on a bicycle road and cause conflict. In Pori, the situation was completely different: when the mill whistles blew out at four working days, the streets of the city were filled with thousands of men and women who moved naturally, everydayly on bicycles, mostly with men using so-called old women’s wheels, because it was more practical and easier. Well, this was just this everyday perspective. As far as rail transport is concerned, I was talking about the use of my own car in the past: The reason why, for example, I use my own car between Turku and Pori is that, for the sake of my immediate family, I still have to go there — in due course it has been a business trip to me — there is no point in leaving Turku by train through Vammala, Tampere, Loimaa to travel three and a half hours by train to Pori when it can be done by car in an hour and a half. Or now this much talked about and, to some extent, the question of whether an hour train should be brought here between Helsinki and Turku: I just checked the schedule, 2 hours 22 minutes is the timetable for the train. First I walk from home to that train station. Well, then we're almost there. It is good that now there is no way in the next two hours for 40 minutes to do what we can now, of course, as Parliament recommends during the corona period, I do in 1 hour and 40 minutes from door to door, which of course cannot work. So we need both rail transport, we need fast rail connections to Finland, but we also need good roads, and then in more densely populated areas
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u88	Thank you. - Congressman Mäenpää, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u89	Mr President! Indeed, this report on the national transport system plan for 2021-32: It is good that such a plan exists. Of course, here comes the cat’s tail with regard to rail traffic, whether it’s in Turku or Tampere or where the train goes, or what’s being developed and what’s being built first. Let us hope that this cooperation will move forward. However, it has become clear to me that in previous years some savings have been made and that there have been many road projects at a standstill because the designers have been abandoned in their way and the plans have not been made. It has even been the case that the money has been allocated to planning, but the plans have not progressed due to the lack of designers. I myself live along a reasonably busy rural road where the surface has been renovated some years ago, and there is a great need for a bicycle road. Here too it has happened that, because of the savings, it has been decided at some point that it will be asphalted, but it is asphalted narrower than the original road has been. I remember this kind of busy road, where in its way walkers, pedestrians, cyclists in areas flashed before roller skaters much, and when this kind of road is then narrower asphalted, then it is completely absent for example from the use of these roller skaters. These are really difficult things. When you go out and fix something with a little money you have to fix, but then you don't do it properly, it always causes more problems. I would now like to see these cycle paths, which are now being declared in a climate-climate way, in the countryside as well. There's a lot of those middle-school kids who have to ride their bikes to school some three-mile radius.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u90	Thank you. — Congressman Kauma, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u91	Mr President! There is now a state transport system plan for 2021-2032. I very much welcome the fact that it has been possible to agree on such important matters for 12 years in parliamentary terms. I also welcome the fact that it has been agreed that this document will be updated every four years for 12 years at a time. This will reduce collude and incontinentness in various projects. However, as quite a few others have said here, I am concerned about funding. In particular, this co-financing model between municipalities and the state is a cause for concern, and I understand that a lot of commentators were also concerned about it. We decided here last week on a social reform, which has very worrying financial aspects, particularly for cities and large towns in the south, and then, in practice, for which the financing of these transport structures would largely come and has come before. I am concerned that, in the future, at least, the responsibility of the municipalities would not be increased on the basis of this co-financing model. In particular, the financing of the road network is a problem and we have a billion-dollar repair deficit and a maintenance deficit here on the side of the road network. However, I welcome some of the previous government proposals. If I take an example here from New Zealand, from my region, I would say that I am pleased that we have received funding for the lighting on base road 51 between Siuntio-Inkoo-Karja, and then it is a kind of basis for us also to develop the smart grid and digitalisation in this area, for example, to build an early warning system if we see animals moving along the road, and in this way to increase the safety of movement as well. I also welcome the fact that this report has set three hours’ reachability across Finland as an objective, i.e. that if air transport cannot be secured, then there must be a possibility of rail transport from all parts of Finland. After all, Finland is a highly export-dependent country and we need transport connections from other parts of Finland. In view of the interest rate situation, the State is currently temporarily supporting air connections to airports in Kokkola-Pietarsaari, Joensuu, Kajaani, Jyväskylä and Kemi-Tornio until the end of 2021 due to employment in these regions and support for the export industry. In other words, we must ensure that when we talk about Finland's accessibility to the European Union and elsewhere, we are not just talking about Southern Finland, but we are talking about Finland as a whole. Mr President! I would like to raise a point which was just mentioned a little bit more, which is this car peace. I believe that every Finnish person must have the right to choose his or her mode of transport without being demonised in any way. As far as driving is concerned, I have seen that there is a bit of this guilt in the atmosphere, and it seems strange to see how sparsely populated Finland is. And some of the great cities of the south are also those where accessibility by public transport is not possible and not always appropriate. Finland is a country in which passenger car traffic is still needed. I am also a little concerned about this plan or report in the Government Programme regarding tolls and congestion charges, because I see that it would be a bad thing for hard-working Finns to pay for working, and many people really need that car to work. I would also point out that I still believe that it is undecided that if the government now intends to introduce these tolls or congestion charges, then who will actually get the money?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u92	Thank you. — Mr Kalli, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u93	Mr President! Finland is an export-driven country with long distances, so smooth and cost-effective transport forms one of the cornerstones of our well-being. Mobility must be easy and affordable, smooth travel chains and in the condition of connections on land, sea and air. Of course, the same applies to telecommunications connections. Today, fast online connections are a necessity for everyday life in homes, businesses and public services. Knowing the importance of exports to our well-being, it is worth noting that Finland is in a more challenging position than many of our competitors, for example because of natural reasons, such as geography, when assessing the logistics costs for our companies. We are an island on the edge of many major markets — at least from the point of view of exports and imports — where internal distances are also long. The climate and the needs it creates for winter maintenance, for example, create their own challenges for the Finnish transport system. Thus, due to these so-called natural circumstances, the logistics costs of Finnish export companies are in principle higher than those of the competitor countries. We're getting out of the way, as it were, compared to a lot of competitors. This must be taken into account when deciding both on the transport system and on other matters affecting the business environment and the conditions of competition. In addition to companies, smooth and affordable transport is of course also necessary for individuals, i.e. all of us Finns. In Finland, private motoring is important and often the only way to move from one place to another: work, hobbies, school, shop, close friends, anywhere. This must also be taken into account when we decide on the maintenance and development of the routes, but also on the costs of driving more widely. For this reason, the Centre has stated that tax increases in transport fuels will no longer be made during this term of government — a point — and it is important that this message has also been given clearly and unambiguously to the whole government. Mr President! The long-term and cost-effective development of the transport system is therefore a question of fate for Finland and Finns in terms of well-being. That is why it is excellent that we are now, for the first time, getting a national transport system plan that has been prepared jointly across the political boundaries. This will certainly create long-term and predictability in our transport policy. Mr President! I would like to raise a few points about the plan which I consider to be particularly important. First of all, it is great that we are now jointly committed to the heavy repair debt of our transport system. This will continue to require investment in basic infrastructure management. It is excellent that this and the previous government have significantly increased funding for basic bus maintenance. The plan now adopted aims to further increase this funding and thus reduce the debt of correction, albeit slowly but surely, and it is absolutely essential that we commit ourselves to this across party boundaries. It is important that we also invest strongly in the lower road network and in the financing of private roads in the future. Private roads actually make up the vast majority of our country's road-kilometres. They play a key role not only in the success of many Finnish everyday lives but also in our business and export industries. The permanent funding level of EUR 25 million per year, as outlined in the plan, is sustainable and welcome. Mr President! As a representative of a hundred people, I am also pleased that the plan recognises the importance of developing our key main routes. One hundred municipalities is a strong export region, so the functionality of our routes is important to Finland as a whole, since we produce almost double the proportion of Finland's exports compared to our population. The development of highway two and the highway eight mentioned here on many occasions and the development of the Tampere-Pori-Rauma rail link are therefore important for the well-being of Finland as a whole. The same applies to ports and air transport. It is therefore necessary that the development of these links, which are important for the export industry as a whole in Western Finland, should also be strongly reflected in the Väylä Agency's investment plan. I am pleased that the plan confirms the implementation of the commercial pilot on the Tampere-Pori-Ruma track. This is a wise policy that offers opportunities for business, growth and work, but also for the development of passenger train traffic. As far as the latter is concerned, I would like to raise one further need for rail transport, which is particularly relevant to my region. It would be important to re-establish passenger train traffic between Rauma and Kokemäki. This would serve commuting and students in the region and would also provide a big opportunity for the development of tourism throughout the region.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u94	Thank you. — Representative Elo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u95	Mr President! A sustainable transport network is essential to how we can reduce climate emissions from transport and build the first carbon-neutral welfare state in the world from Finland by 2035. It is important that the fight against climate change, sustainable transport and the reduction of emissions have been identified as key objectives of the transport system plan. The transport system must be developed in parallel with the road map for fossil-free transport and the tax and payment reform for sustainable transport. The modal shift of travel chains to more sustainable modes of mobility must be promoted as quickly as possible. It is important to recognise that the means are different across Finland. Several speeches have been made here from the perspective of the whole country and sparsely populated regions. That is why I am focusing on the cities in my speech. In cities, the development of public transport, walking and cycling is absolutely essential, and this also requires state spending. Korona has caused enormous distress to mass traffic in the Helsinki region. State aid has been and will be absolutely necessary to prevent the level of public transport from falling. On the contrary, the level needs to be improved in order to ensure that people’s everyday life goes without their own car. It is important that this is provided for in the plan. Mr President! The vitality of urban areas is essential to ensuring that mobility is easy and affordable for all. For this we need effective and smooth public transport. Concerns have been raised here about the vitality of cities and their ability to invest in the future. These are the concerns I share. It is important that we strengthen the partnership between the state and the municipalities and genuine agreement on funding as well. That is why the statement by the Committee on Transport and Communications that the co-financing model does not change the basic principles governing the financial responsibilities of transport projects is an important starting point. The extension of the MAL agreements to new urban areas has been justified. At the same time, however, we must ensure that funding is available for all regions. The conditions for sustainable growth in large cities must be safeguarded, and the government is committed to this. In urban areas, investing in rail networks, such as trams and commuter trains, is sustainable and facilitates the daily lives of residents. Mr President! In the programme to promote walking and cycling, the target for 2030 was to increase the number of trips by 30 per cent. The role of the State in achieving this objective is primarily linked to infrastructure. When we talk about promoting cycling, it is important to look at cities with huge potential. With interest, cycling has increased and this development still needs to be accelerated. It is also an important public health act. In a good city, children can cycle safely to school from first grade. It requires safe cycle paths. Today, the Helsingin Sanomat said that: Helsinki wants to be the third best cycling city in the world after Copenhagen and Amsterdam. This is something we should all be proud of. The main objective is to integrate cycling as an equal part of transport. Helsinki can serve as a good example in this respect for all cities and urban areas. It is important that the state continues to provide state subsidies to municipalities to promote walking and cycling. Mr President! It is a pity that a confrontation between the various modes of transport is being built in this Chamber, among other things, by talking about demonisation of driving. Such a discussion serves no one, but creates unjustified threats. I hope for more mutual understanding in this debate. We share a common objective of reducing climate emissions from transport in a fair and fair way. I believe that through open debate and recognition of the facts, we can also find the best solutions for this together in different parts of Finland. With regard to congestion charges, this House does not really decide on charges, but on how to make them possible. In this Chamber, however, it is the law that allows payments and its model must be functional and useful for urban regions. In the HSL region, congestion charges have been identified as one effective means of reducing emissions. What is essential is that we find a model in which the revenue from payments is channelled into the transport system of the region and, in particular, into the development of public transport, and that it is best served both by reducing emissions and by the easy and smooth movement of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u96	Thank you. — Mr Kymäläinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u97	Mr President! This report is a historical piece of work together, the first and ever-updating, long-term and so on, a strategic document that takes all modes of transport into account. Of course, in this debate there would seem to be more common spirit and common will present. This, too, is a very delicate step forward between the government and the opposition. The committee was unanimous, as was the steering group. Mr President! The government will not increase fuel taxes. Even after the indexing, fuel prices remain at the same level as ten years ago. The opposition propaganda has no basis. During the last period, there were historically strong increases which raised pump prices by EUR 300 million, given the fuel tax increases and the increase in the level of the distribution obligation, but I would stress once again that this government will not increase fuel taxes, and point after point. Cars and fuels develop rapidly, and motoring becomes more sustainable and emission-free. That is also why I do not like the talk here of punishing or prosecuting motorists. I didn't recognize it myself. The government spends more than EUR 1 billion more on the renovation of the corridors than the previous government invested. The Government has already designated renovation and development projects all over Finland with a mandate of more than EUR 2 billion so far, which clearly exceeds the previous government's investments. The EUR 110 million cut in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications brings challenges, that is true, and that is hardly what any of us can like. The two wheels of the opposition are, of course, the right of the opposition, but I would particularly like to remind the assembly of their own speeches and demands on the government, with its cutting needs. The Coalition Party has called for much more cuts, such as disciplining shipping. For Finland, which is dependent on exports, this would be disastrous, would be a security of supply risk and would easily lead to the flagging out of ships. There is no such thing as recreational shipping, but there is always cargo with entertainment shipping. The Coalition Party has proposed, among other things, a reduction of EUR 40 million in crew support for recreational shipping and EUR 10 million in the seamen's pension fund. This would be very damaging to Finland. The LVM is subject to cuts because the sector has, among other things, large transport modes that are not statutory. The final targets for savings will come next spring, and the damage to Transport 12 will be minimised in this context. As far as EU aid applications are concerned, Finland already has a large number of projects under way whose financing decisions have been taken, both on the core network and on a comprehensive network. Many of these have already received planning funding and progress to the construction phase during the forthcoming CEF period. Finland has done better in further applications for the end of the period. With investment decisions taken and transport 12 work, we have a good chance of success in the future. The debate on the report at the end of this part-session is a great way to close the session. Two years of huge work is completed, and the report will have an impact on the future budget and will guide it — historical. That is why it was important to have the report dealt with now and not too late for the preparation of the budget next autumn. As far as congestion charges are concerned, I should also like to say for myself that legislation is being prepared to legalise and make congestion charges possible, but neither this government nor this hall will decide on congestion charges, but the regions will then make them independently. These congestion charges have long been sought, and it is good that this is possible in accordance with the wishes of the regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u98	Thank you. — Congressman Kosonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u99	Mr President! It is excellent that we now have a 12-year plan for our transport system. Accessibility, efficiency and meeting different needs throughout Finland and the transition to low-emission transport require long-term strategic planning and commitment of all of us. The objectives are mutually supportive. Smart planning of the transport system supports the transition to fossil-free transport, for example through the maintenance of the road network and the smooth operation of rail transport. Finland is a country of long distances, and we need a wide range of vehicles here from wheels to subways, trains, aircraft and cars. Sustainable choices must be made easy for Finns. In larger cities, this means good public transport and cycling routes, but also making it possible to drive private cars. However, in a geographically large country, we must be honest with the fact that public transport or bicycles are not accessible everywhere. However, it is essential that more cycle paths are built around Finland. They increase safety but are also the most cost-effective exercise site. Sustainable choices must be made throughout Finland, which is why, for example, charging points networks for electric and biogas cars must extend widely across Finland. Finland must also be at the forefront of research and development in enabling new technologies such as hydrogen transport. Let me raise a few more important points about the plan. Firstly, the maintenance of roads, which I mentioned earlier. It is great to be here to decide on new broad road lines, but I would stress that we really must also take care of our existing roads. Damaged roads break down cars, are a danger factor and increase emissions. Secondly, the development of rail transport. A few years ago, I traveled from Moscow to St.Petersburg 649 miles [649 km] in four hours. At the same time in Finland, and especially in Eastern Finland, 330 kilometres last four and a half hours. The choice of means of transport is often based on price, timetable and speed. Passenger transport of trains has improved in recent years, but it is important to catch up with the rear. Thirdly, the development of communication networks in this way is even more important in the corona era and the increase in telework than has previously been thought. Good communications networks reduce climate emissions because the need for physical mobility has decreased. This is also part of my previous attention to the development of rail transport. The mobile network must also operate on trains. Fourthly, new financing models need to be developed to develop the various parts of our transport system. Mr Laukkanen made a good point in his speech on the introduction of new financing models. I agree. We should be open to the possibility of financing, so that the dependence on state funding is not so obvious.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u100	Congressman Malm.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u101	Madam President! Doing it together has shown its strength again, and thank you for this parliamentary preparation. Since the long-term plan will also bring predictability to business, it will bring predictability to municipalities and regions and enable more efficient and wider use of EU funding. It also enables investment, and investment enables work. Now, however, it is a small matter that needs to be raised: the Transport and Communications Agency has approved the draft general plan for the Imatra-Imatrankoski border. Several, several years of work have been carried out in South Karelia for the adoption of this general plan. There is therefore every reason to promote the 12-year transport system plan through this financing decision, and the project is also one of the top projects in South Karelia. Everything has to do with everything, and industry also has to do with international politics. The next step is to negotiate the implementation of the project with Russia at national level, so that improvements are coordinated and carried out on both sides of the border at the same time. Negotiations with the neighbour should therefore be launched as soon as possible, and all this is linked to this because of the competitiveness of 12 years of industry. Rail transport from Imatra to Russia could be internationalised as early as 2024, at the same time as road transport at Parikkala border crossing point, and Parikkala border crossing point is also strongly linked to exports. If these two things were taken care of, we would have a huge amount of railway capacity released from Eastern Finland for other uses. We could also open the track directly to Russia—China axis, which would mean that at the moment the export goods of a steel factory or paper mill would not have to go around the Finnish track alone for a week, and it is a long time in export. When it comes to crossing the Imatra border, the rail link will therefore significantly improve our industry and our competitiveness. It also enables passenger transport and is good for the whole of Eastern Finland, and it is therefore important for Finland's exports as a whole and opens up railway capacity, as I said. But it also supports our tourism. I strongly believe that the time for Saimaa is coming, and how we can also get tourists to Saimaa safely through the tracks is particularly important. As stated in this 12-year plan, the smooth functioning of border traffic is already important for the functioning of international transport. Once ongoing development projects are completed, the border crossing points will have to respond mainly to our needs. The state must ensure the smooth flow of traffic at existing border crossing points and also continue to cooperate with neighbouring countries. A smooth and secure border crossing requires effective links at the border crossing point and at the border crossing point itself, and also contributes to our security of supply. This cooperation will ensure that the development work on both Finland and neighbouring countries is aligned — especially now that 2021 is the European Year of Rail Transport, during which the benefits of rail transport and sustainable, intelligent and safe modes of transport are emphasised. Rail transport is always more ecological and safe than the use of roads.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u102	Congressman Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u103	Mr President! The 12-year transport system plan is a long-term plan to guide road and rail investment, maintenance and the development of all modes of transport. Such a plan is very welcome and I would like to thank the parliamentary group, but also the committee, for having dealt with it properly and for having produced an excellent report on this. I am also glad that I have been allowed to be in my time as Minister of Transport, in a way like midwives. At that time, from 2014 to 2015, there was a parliamentary group led by the then chairman of the committee, Kalle Jokinen, and a starting shot was made for this 12-year plan, and everyone accepted it. It was included in the parliamentary group, so very good. This is, in fact, the long-term and commitment that goes beyond the term of government, over the parliamentary term. This is the kind of thing that we always use routes, roads, and they wear out, and that's why we have to be up to date all the time. And the fact that this kind of long-term commitment and commitment are going on in general will then reduce such a policy of drumming. A key element is the systematic repayment of the correction debt, which also requires well-estimated projects, i.e. cost-effectiveness and safe projects for the development of all modes of transport and routes. At the time of 2014-2015, the parliamentary group stated that the correction debt was EUR 2.3 billion, and it has now been established that it is EUR 2.8 billion. Now, here is the plan to bring it down to EUR 2.2 billion. Well, this is going to take a long time, and I am afraid that if we do not systematically infect this — every single government, every single year — we will not achieve that goal. And it is very sad that a decision was already made to calculate this correction debt, and now it has only increased. But, of course, it is good that another objective has been set, and at least according to what I have heard here today, everyone is applauding this issue — now only to see what happens when those decisions are taken. Mr President! Mobility is a basic human need. Transport arrangements and systems are diversely linked to people's lives. It is related to human well-being in general, employment, hobbies, studies, it is also related to business life and the economic situation in Finland. So you can say that these transport systems, their associated routes and opportunities for movement, are important to Finland as a whole and also to people living in Finland. It is therefore a question of work, economics, security, but also of health and other well-being. All in all, transport and transport routes are part of the whole of society, so we should always look at the whole when we think about one point. If we want to keep Finland inhabited and we want jobs in different parts of Finland and the school network to be maintained, safe routes are needed. We are talking here very easily about diversity without taking into account whether we have networks, whether we have access. This is something that at least opened up to me at the time of the Minister of Transport, how important transport routes and networks are, so that we can get them all done. But then a few more words. There has been talk here, for example, of fuel taxation. After all, it is a disaster that it is in a model like this: business is suffering, and I live in an area where you simply need your own car. I think it is absolutely necessary to say no to tolls. And then a few things I would like to mention in conclusion: EU funding must be made available. We need to think about the fact that the municipalities do not want to have enough money for services either — we cannot, so to speak, syphilis from the municipalities. We need to rethink the financing model, and we need to see traffic as a service. Airports must be kept away from Helsinki Airport. The MAL agreements are important and then, of course, these specific targets. Finally, I just say that the main course is like our aorta, you could say. From Eastern Finland just now
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u104	Representative Marttinen gone, representative Talvitie gone, representative Kanerva gone. — Mr Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u105	Madam President! The 12-year transport system plan is a parliamentaryly prepared, strategic paper that provides long-term guidance on road and rail investment, maintenance and the development of all modes of transport. It covers the period 2021 to 2023. The document is likely to be drawn up for periods of 12 years from now, but will be updated every four years. The State will continue to be responsible for the financing of the corridors. The key is to raise the level of funding for basic infrastructure management and to make maximum use of EU funding. For example, during this period, the government has had serious difficulties with these funding applications.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u110	Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u111	Thank you, Madam President. I think that this multi-annual transport plan deserves thanks. Good work has been done here across government-opposition boundaries. Representative Risikko previously reviewed the historical background. I also think it is worth acknowledging that there is a long way to go behind the work of many governments, and I think that, in particular, thanks to this agreement, it is up to us to have a long-term vision: a) this transport development work and b) this funding too, especially in that direction of the EU, now to have new opportunities. We have had weaknesses in obtaining EU funding for transport projects compared to Sweden, for example. It is not worth looking at the culprits — the previous government of the centre, the Finns and the National Coalition, just the same result, and the previous sixpack government, the same result — but now, through this paper, hopefully, when we combine this design with our lobbying work in the European Union, we will be able to go even a little closer to the level of the neighbouring country in Sweden. Another lift I want to make out of this: There have also been many good projects in my own province, Central Finland, already during this term of government — 26 million Joutsa-Hartola road, nearly 200 million Jyväskylä-Tampere rail sections — but of course it is still necessary, and this is the everyday life of politics. Of course I hope there will be additional funding for route four, but there is, in fact, one major problem with the fact that the plan is not ready, so we are not yet in a position to grant funding. Although that funding is in the column of short texts as always required in the polls, it cannot be given there when the plan is not ready. Here comes this particular flower of Finnish society, that when the plan is ready, then the complaints will start and, unfortunately, before the final plan is reached, it will take time. But at the end of the day, perhaps attention will be paid to this traffic breach, how this has changed. We have now seen a change in the corona era to the fact that people are more comfortable at home because of circumstances, but I believe that this hybrid model, in which some of the work is done remotely, some on the ground, will increase. That is why it is important not only that we have good transport connections on the road as well as on the railways, but also that these information freeways work and that we have very good broadband across this country and with its support 5G, 6G technology, whatever comes out of it, so that we can have new services, a new kind of work model and a new model of living and comfort, and that is what this plan is about to say. As I said in my previous speech, well-designed is half done, and now it is up to us politicians, including in the next parliamentary term, to implement this good plan. For my part, I should like to thank not only the minister responsible, of course, but also the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, who has done a very good job in managing this report. Have a good summer and such car peace on the road too. There's a lot of road work there now.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u112	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo gone. — Representative Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u113	Mr President! Just a few more words, because at the end of that speech I was quite quick to say about these, which I personally see as important to continue to raise to the speeches and, of course, to the actions. These municipalities' money: When a lot is now being desired that municipalities should participate in the construction of corridors, and a little like attracting municipalities to get better access when they participate themselves, it must be remembered, however, that municipal money is not a bottomless sack. That is why it is absolutely essential for the State to take care of these routes that belong to the State. Then these financial models, which have now been taken into account in this system plan, have already been discussed at the time. However, I would like to take an even more innovative approach to finding these funding models, because there are different options across Europe, but they are worth looking for. In fact, at that time such an explanation was made, and it is worth looking at. Then there are these airports as well: we all know that these regional airports are now quite on hold. For example, we too have had to stop traffic in the province. It is understandable, of course, that we should always look at what is worthwhile and what is not, and it is true that that Helsinki Airport is the only one who is well in favour, but I personally believe that we should take the Swedish model. In Sweden, it is the regional airports that have led to jobs and the business community has been able to organise them in a completely different way when they are in operation, because many organisations also need those international networks. Then on these MAL contracts: At the time when these MAL agreements were invented, namely land use, housing and transport agreements, they were an impossible innovation, but the municipalities and cities that are excluded often lose out on all other searches, because it is always considered that they are given to those who have concluded the MAL agreement. Therefore, we should look at these with some new criteria. I take, for example, Seinäjoki, which has a great deal to offer from the point of view of business, for example. I have also suggested that the E and K, or MALEKit, be added to it — that is to say, the buzz of industry and then the K, that is, internationalism — and that these criteria should also be considered when these agreements are concluded. I would also like to say that in our region, for example, there is a constant need for a car of our own, i.e. an absolute ‘no’ for fuel tax increases and road charges. It is simply that if we want to keep Finland inhabited, we need those cars of our own. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u114	Congressman Holopainen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u115	Thank you, Madam President. It is good to have a slightly longer-term vision of how the transport system should be developed. I would like to draw good attention here to the fact that it would be a goal for municipalities and the state to support increased walking and cycling and urban cycle systems. They can also increase the vitality of many cities and municipalities where there is an adequate population base. We get urban bike systems in more urban areas than in the capital region, where it is constantly developed to make it easy to move. Surely now, everyone sees in the street picture the change in small electronic traffic that people can typically travel short distances by e-bikes or bikes or electric kicks, which certainly also need their own regulation more, because it seems to be so new that there are no common rules yet. But this type of traffic is also increasing in many areas. It should be noted that, when talking about the needs of the business community, the development of urban transport to the greatest extent serves the business community. If we have more than one ramp stop, it will be easier for us to move to the jobs that are in the urban area, and here it would be good to take into account, first of all, how service-intensive our business life, our business structure. By developing public transport and enabling people to move easily, by developing bicycle routes, we are allowing people to move at least in urban areas. Of course, without a car you can't manage in many regions, and it's good to think more about it when you need it, when a lot of people are a user of a variety of means of movement and not typically just one, that is to say, developing those services according to its needs. This report also makes good points about how mobility develops as a service and how digitalisation can contribute to promoting mobility. It would therefore be wonderful if this issue of congestion charges were also considered as a cost issue. It is certainly not timely, for example, in Seinäjoki, which was mentioned here — of course not. If there is no congestion, then surely it will not do any good. But, on the other hand, it would be good to take into account the research data underlying the fact that such a small proportion of congestion is concentrated at a certain time, i.e. congestion is concentrated on a small part of the day when, by slightly expanding it, significant infrastructure costs will be saved and will have an impact not only on the local government but also on the state economy. In other words, it is worth using this opportunity, and it has been agreed that we will also be able to introduce legislation which, if necessary, will also enable these new means of digitalisation to guide it in such a way that it is as cost-effective as possible, rather than making a huge effort to make it easier for the small peak of congestion, even if it is not always possible to do so. When the space is limited, we need to find the wise and cost-effective ways to control traffic. Of course, traffic is controlled otherwise. This in itself is not an exceptional thing, and this is used in many urban areas outside Finland, but there is no need to fear that congestion charges will then become available in some part of Finland, where there are no congestion. In addition, of course, it would be great for the future to consider how we will join this European network even more closely. Now, from Sweden, the night train is becoming more and more accessible to continental Europe, and we are here at the back of a bag, so it would be very important for our competitiveness to start the plans and to consider whether we can make the Tallinn tunnel happen, and that is certainly a longer-term objective. But in any case, the future goes to that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u116	Congressman Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u117	Mr President! It is worth thanking all parties and parties for having achieved the 12-year transport system plan. It will increase the long-term development of our network and reduce flexibilities, as I pointed out in my previous speech and others have brought it here. However, as an addition to my previous speech, I would like to raise two further concerns relating to this whole. First of all, the government decided immediately after the report was completed 12. On 1 May, the budgetary plan targets a saving obligation of EUR 110 million for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications from 2023 onwards. If a savings obligation is imposed on the transport network or its development, this seriously undermines the credibility of the report and makes its full implementation more difficult. Secondly, the social welfare reform will seriously weaken the income formation of municipalities, as a large part of the tax revenue will be transferred to welfare areas. Therefore, municipalities have less ability to invest in local road projects. Many of the extremely necessary regional projects can be buried in the future, because the condensing shoulders of municipalities are unable to support investment programmes as large as they were in the past. A negative financing model between the municipality and the state, combined with a miserable social welfare reform, can freeze many regional projects in the future, because there is simply no investment capacity anymore. Thus, the effects of an unfortunate social welfare reform are also reflected in municipalities and their investment in vitality, such as important transport projects funded by municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u118	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u119	Madam President! The debate seems to be moving at a pace and fine, good, excellent speeches have been used. Personally, I would like to raise two themes in relation to this transport system plan, both of which have already been discussed here today. The second relates to this debate on congestion charges which has taken place. Finland is a sparsely populated country, a small, sparsely populated country and even a low population, and we do not even have real cities, not even this metropolis Helsinki is on world scale. In other words, traffic congestion is actually quite small, and I myself would be inclined to reflect on a different angle than that we would create this kind of congestion charge system, which would rather lead to those small roads becoming available, because at least those living in the capital region themselves will be able to avoid those patterns so that they can move without the points where they register this traffic. The congestion charge is an unnecessary burden for motorists, and my point of view would be such that, yes, traffic congestion is worth avoiding, it is worth creating a transport network that works most rationally also for private cars, but it is much more effective than congestion charges being used to alleviate congestion, to invest in public transport. The stronger, better functioning public transport systems we have in urban areas where these congestions are now present, the less congestion we actually have. The way forward in the world, which is both an environmentally friendly means and also a means of balancing social incomes, and it is also positive in the regional sense, is free public transport, that local public transport is made free of charge. Mariehamn is the only municipality in Finland where it has been implemented. In the neighboring town on the other side of the bay, in Tallinn, it has been implemented... [Speaker's microphone shuts down ]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u122	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u123	Thank you, Mr President. On its basis, this transport system plan is a good and important tool to guide future traffic. Of course, this is just this sort of indicative job, because many municipalities and provinces also want to carry out big projects, and they do. We have as one of the big projects in Vantaa this kind of local transport solution, this tram design, going to the East Vantaa area. That is what decisions will then be made during this upcoming council term whether Vantaa can afford to join or not in this economic situation. Mr Kiljunen mentioned this free-of-charge public transport, and a few ideas came to mind. It is, of course, a good idea if we had such free public transport in the capital region. I'm sure everyone would love to, but when you start thinking about how to get the money into it, it's already a more difficult question. In Vantaa, for example, as a representative Kiljunen probably knows, I think we currently have a one-percent tax rate on our subsidies to public transport, which is Vantaa's share. It would then mean more than EUR 50 million of money, which should be dug up if free access to Vantaa could be made, or if the Vantaans could travel in public transport. Similarly, the rest, less than EUR 300 million, should be collected elsewhere — or some 250 million would still be left in the pocket of other municipalities — and in this economic situation that is impossible. But even if this is not possible in this economic situation, it would be really good if we were to go more often in the capital region on this kind of experimental model. In Vantaa, for example, we have had quite a lot of discussion about why pensioners and unemployed people, for example, could not travel free of charge at certain times. It has also been supported by the Finns, but it has never progressed. There has always been some obstacle in the other parties to the fact that, after all, there has been no desire to put that money there. Mr President! However, it must be borne in mind that, in these road transport solutions, the government has a very strong idea of such a fossil-free road map, in which they want to make these different solutions in the name of climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u124	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u125	Thank you, Madam President. There has been a good debate here today. I wonder if I should like to take the floor at all, but I would like to take the floor briefly when we have talked about you and the railways, but about air transport to the point where I would like to draw attention to the fact that the committee has paid a great deal of attention to the future and future of electronic air transport. I myself have a great dream and a vision that, when electronic air transport, especially small-scale air transport, starts to become more widespread in this country, regional airports, including smaller municipal airports, will be developed and promoted in order to ensure that it is precisely this electronic air transport sector and its potential for short-haul air transport will become more widespread as quickly as possible. I also draw attention to the fact that here in Helsinki Helsinki Helsinki-Malmi Airport is, however, one of the most important hubs in the general aviation network, and if Malmi Airport is caught, then where do we start flying from this capital region to those regional airports?
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u128	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u129	Thank you, Madam President. My own municipality, Lempäälä, is a very long band of tapes, nearly 15 kilometres long, south of Tampere. It is split up by the Tampere-Helsinki motorway, the Tampere-Helsinki railway, and it is absolutely vital that we have access to parking for both rubber and rail. With great satisfaction, I read the report on paragraph 97, which states that the State will support the construction of park-and-rides because they are quite unreasonably expensive for a small municipality to build more places, for example in the Saaksjärvi-Hakkari-Lempälä region, along the motorway and rail, because they cannot have common park-and-ride areas when the railway and the motorway are so far apart. But with great satisfaction I found this to be supported by the state in building these parking facilities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u130	Congressman Holopainen, Mari.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u131	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to draw the good attention of the committee to the fact that there is a good line that will be taken in the future to examine the needs and opportunities for the development of regional rail transport. According to the report, many urban areas, for example, have a willingness to develop local rail transport. After all, the Greens have taken initiatives to develop urban transport that would be sustainable and bring vitality to many urban areas, and this has also been strongly raised on the centre side, and apparently there is support from other parties for this idea. I would see that it would be one way in which, according to pan-European development, we would have more cities in Finland that would be able to survive and work. In my opinion, Tampere is a good example of this: Tampere’s appeal has been good, and it has been decided to invest in the ride. And in other cities, there are such considerations. Vantaa, for example, will decide on investments. It would then be good to note that this investment is not just a cost but also creates more value and creates more attractiveness for the region. It would be great to see that we could really make this local rail transport work in more urban areas. In this way, a small share of the international attraction and migration towards the Helsinki region could, in my view, also be directed towards other urban areas, because we are now beginning to have a close relationship with the volume of construction. I think it is important for the capital region to grow, and we still have an attractive capital region, but I do not think it is bad if we have other cities that attract people so that we can balance this development slightly. I do not believe that we should be scattered everywhere, but we should now make those choices, and the municipalities will certainly make them themselves, so that they choose whether to develop public transport that is attractive and more sustainable in terms of emissions. And indeed, it is certainly worth following Tampere's example, but for some reason these raids often also face opposition. With all the economic indicators, it seems not so much worth resisting, but vice versa.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u132	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u133	Mr President! Two comments. First of all, Mr Kettunen, when he referred to this decision to dismantle Malmi Airport: I agree with him more than I agree with him. An historic mistake is made here if you cannot appreciate cultural history and transport history, you will recognize the value of that airport in a longer run. It may be the case right now that at the moment the housing needs may be such that the area should be built, but it has a longer run: air will be the central transport route now that we look forward to the future. Then you have to have the points from which you operate. Science fiction can tell us, but of course we can't even use imagination in how much has been dismantled — but there are too many situations in the history of mankind — so-called old cultural structures, historical structures, and later we regret the mistake we made in our time. This is a risk. I live next door so I know what I'm talking about. Mr President! However, I wanted to take the floor in particular to emphasise what Mrs Holopainen said and to correct the mistake made in Mrs Niiko's speech. Thank you very much for your strong support for rail transport solutions, including tram solutions, in such congested areas, which make the most sense to move forward. They are investments in the future. They should not be viewed in a short perspective on the basis of one budget year, because they are made in a long run. I know that this is a little old-fashioned debate: Representative Niikko said just now that this fast track solution, which is now being decided by the Vantaa Council, would be a track solution related to East Vantaa. Mr President, the only thing that has to do with East Vantaa is that the Hakunila sub-region is the only area of the Vantalais large suburbs that is not in the railway area, but that is the route from East Helsinki to Melunmäki, via Western Hakunila to Tikkurila Airport, and in due course it goes to Western Vantaa and Espoo. This will be the backbone of Vantaa itself as a fast track solution, and it will connect the entire Helsinki Metropolitan Area as an arc. Now I know I'm stuck in local politics, and this is Parliament's plenary room, but I just wanted to say that, even in this case, the Finns of Peru are opposed to this in Vantaa on the basis of funding, which Mr Niikko used here just now, that in 1862, when a railway solution was made, that a railway line was built from Helsinki to Hämeenlinna, everyone had said: "We don't have economic resources for this kind of thing. “ Horsemen fully resisted:‘At the same time, they have This is a wasteful investment. “ And so on. President-in-Office, I do not think I need to begin to tell you what the significance of this first railway project in Finland was. Investing in the future, making rail transport solutions — precisely that.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u134	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u135	Mr President! A few words about these rail solutions. Of course, these rail solutions are basically good things if you are looking for such free movement and quick movement in a densely populated city. But the fact is that the representative of Kiljunen, that this sort of 19th century technique in 2021 is not necessarily the best solution because the whole movement develops in the other direction. The fact is, however, that people who travel by car continue to drive from Hakunila to Central Airport or wherever they go. And in fact, the reason why a $400 million tram project is being carried out in Vantaa — it must be said here — is the cause of concern about the segregation of East Vantaa — Hakunila, Länsimäki. Because of this segregation, as there are so many problems with the development of these suburbs, this tram solution has been made. And the second big argument is this carbon neutrality, which the Greens, with the support of the Social Democrats, have advocated very strongly in Vantaa. When we have an investment ceiling during the next council term I remember about EUR 600 million in total in Vantaa, then this kind of investment of EUR 400 million, which is separated from this basic ceiling, is too expensive for us to invest a little elsewhere. Well, of course, Mr Kiljunen may disagree with this in the Council when these matters are discussed. But this is not a magic word when we create more tram traffic or, for example, free public transport, so that people move from their vehicles to these public transport vehicles. In Tallinn, although there is free public transport, there are a lot of cars going there in the city centre. Of course, there has been a reduction in road traffic in Stockholm with this toll system, but those who want to travel by car will continue to travel by car. On the contrary, a line has been taken in Finland to make such park boulevard-like roads here in the middle of Helsinki, Hämeentie, and there are also plans for the end of Tuusulantie and others that soon the vehicle will not be able to drive here at all. This is the way the Greens and Left parties bring about this green transition — forcing motorists into that tram, forcing them to move to public transport — because they are so afraid of air pollution. Much more could be said about this, but for the sake of saving time, Mr President, I would just like to say that, of course, I too am in favour of good public transport, of fluent public transport, but its effectiveness in relation to these investments must be realistic in this economic situation, where the economies of the municipalities are stagnating at a very low level.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u136	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u137	Madam President! I just wanted to say one last thing. In a few contributions from the Assembly, the fact that the reform of social security is now what destroys this opportunity for municipalities to invest in rational transport solutions has been highlighted. I will not go any longer on this subject, but I will say that it is quite a hallucination. When the money that is currently being spent on social services moves to welfare areas, it is not with that money that the transport solutions and infraa are being made in the municipalities to date.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u138	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u139	Mr President! I do not want to prolong this debate either, but here we have had a little discussion of what these public transport systems will be and what they will be based on. A little more dismayed by the design of Niiko that rail transport solutions are 19th-century old technology
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u148	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u149	Madam President! If I understood correctly, I came here in the middle of something when Mrs Kiljunen spoke about free public transport. At least that's how I interpreted it.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u152	Congressman Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u153	Madam President! At the end of the day, it was necessary to take the floor and to point out that, in the case of public transport solutions, the state does support cities and regions because of the development and accessibility of public transport, but these solutions are always made in the cities themselves. They're not the decisions we make here. Just as I have said many times, with regard to these congestion charges and tolls, this Chamber will not be making decisions, but will be taking decisions there in the regions and cities themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u156	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u167	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u169	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u171	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Representative Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u175	Congressman Häkkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u177	And the Prime Minister's deputy, Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u179	Congressman Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u181	Secretary Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u183	Congressman Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u185	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u187	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u191	Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u199	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u203	Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2021-07-01-ps-87.u283	Mr President! In practice, the Ministry of the Environment is responsible for our housing support systems and conversions, and then there is still a completely separate social security aspect, but the question is very important, and I answer in so far as I recognise the different incomes: First of all, quite recently, a few days ago, the Ministry of the Environment has targeted its own programme of measures to support the elderly, specifically housing solutions, in order to make housing more age-friendly. At that time, one good and essential measure will also have to do with air conditioning, ventilation and solutions for such stoves. The indoor air and everything is also much of the problem of our public construction, and there is widespread commitment across party boundaries to do that work in Finnish society. I also think one aspect is worth saying: the government's policy choice, which has risen a lot here in the debate, supports municipalities in the interest rate period economically, is also making it possible to do so,
